"Certain aspects of feasibility of a miniature submarine cable-transmission system have been studied. The system is small and light, and designed for use in military applications as an expendable item where submarine cables of conventional design would be uneconomical. It weighs about 125 pounds per mile, transmits 1.35 million pulses per second of a pulse-code modulated (PCM) signal, and is powered by 4.5 ma with a voltage drop of about 2 volts per mile. Several armorless cables were tested. All have a steel core with a layer of copper for the center conductor, and extruded polyethylene dielectric. They differ in the way in which the center conductor is fabricated, in the materials of the outer conductor, and in the way in which it is held in place over the dielectric. The transistor repeater uses one transistor and eight passive components. It has a 17-db gain and an output of 0.8 volts into a 75-ohm line. The repeater housings are hollow cylinders of beryllium copper, 2 1/8 inches by 7/16 inches. The insulation of the transmission line is joined to the ends of the housing by an adhesive and by a mechanical seal. The cable tension is transferred to the housings by hollow ceramic insulating cones. The housings were tested in 13,200 psi hydrostatic pressure and to 120 pounds axial tension. A system of five repeaters in 18,000 feet of line was laid in Sandy Hook Bay and was operable for thirteen months."
"The purpose of this note is to point out that for either frequency diversity or time diversity, the dependence of required transmitted power on number of branches is quite different than for space diversity. For both frequency- and time-diversity techniques the saving of transmitter power can come only from the first factor above (that is, the averaging of fluctuations), since the total mean received power is a fixed fraction of the scattered power. It will be shown that as a consequence: 1) The minimum required transmitter power for a specified reliability is strictly larger than zero. 2) Both the value of this minimum and the number of diversity branches yielding the minimum depend upon the diversity-combining method used."
"The problem of transmitting digital data through electromagnetic environments of high ambient-pulse density is one of growing concern. The appearance of pulsed radar in the lO-Mw range, and sensitive receivers in the - 100-dbm range, will aggravate this situation. This paper discusses three efforts made by the government to predict the status of future environments. In all cases, the basic technique of analytical prediction calls for the solution of mathematical models by digital computer. Results from these analyses are useful to the designer of future systems as well as to the operators who must use them. The responsibility of keeping the signal congestion within bounds rests with the designer and user alike."
"A 650-mile radio-relay system composed of 22 \"lineof-sight\" paths was constructed to supplement the Canadian National Communications between Sydney, Nova Scotia, and St. John's, Newfoundland. Relay repeater points were chosen by means of all available contoured maps and on-site surveys of the various points, bearing in mind radio transmission characteristics and also accessibility for maintenance. All the radio paths were field-tested to confirm their transmission capabilities. The overwater hop between Cape North and Red Rocks, which is 69 miles long, required careful consideration, and special arrangements were made to ensure that this hop would provide a satisfactory performance. Standard Telephones and Cables Ltd.,were requested to provide this system using their latest equipment. This is 5-watt equipment working on 4000 Mc and able to carry the equivalent of 600 toll quality message circuits or one video program. To handle the present Canadian National requirements, three channels were installed in an eastward direction and two in a westward direction. The system is divided into three sections with back-to-back terminals at Corner Brook and Gander for general communications and television branching circuits. Each section has a separate comprehensive supervisory control facility for providing dual information and controls at both section terminals."
"One of the first goals of the research effort on meteoric communications was to establish the advantage, if any, of diversity reception. Three types of diversity were investigated: frequency, space, and polarization. Nearly perfect correlation of the signals was found for frequency diversity reception with a frequency separation of 4 kc and for space diversity reception for antenna spacings of up to 1200 feet, Only polarization diversity appears to provide any advantage. Two identical eight-element yagi receiving antennas were erected. one horizontally polarized and the other vertically polarized. The transmitting antenna was horizontally polarized. Analysis of the data shows that about 34 per cent of the signals on the vertical antenna equal or exceed in amplitude the signals on the horizontal antenna, but the shapes of the bursts on the two antennas are identical in most cases. It is concluded that there is not enough increase in system performance to justify the use of any of the three types of diversity."
"It has often been found more necessary in the engineering of data transmission systems to consider impulsive noise than conventional Gaussian white noise. A model is proposed for the impulsive noise, which describes empirically an amplitude distribution and a time distribution. Because the latter has been described in experimental work principally in terms of error occurrences, the description is translated into these. The notable characteristics of impulsive noise are that at low occurrence frequencies the amplitudes are much larger than for Gaussian noise, and that impulses or errors tend to be more \"bunched\" than expected from a Poisson distribution."
"This paper provides formulas for evaluating RF spectral shape and interfering carrier distortion in connection with FM trunk radio systems having low modulation ratios. Numerical results are given for 1800-speech-channel systems. The curves showing interfering carrier distortion are of particular interest in connection with systems using RF multiplex (i.e., systems consisting of a number of carriers each modulated with a signal built up from a large number of speech channels). Preferred carrier spacings, originally determined for 600-channel systems, have been recommended by the CCIR 9th Plenary Assembly, 1959, for use with up to 1800 channel systems. It appears from the analysis that with these larger numbers of channels, a considerable amount of attenuation by filtering or by isolators will be required to give adequate protection against intermodulation distortion."
"Most of the work which has been done in the analysis of a νth-law device is concerned with the statistical properties of the output. Apparently, a general investigation to determine the optimum value of ν for a νth-law device has never been made. Therefore, a simple method of evaluating a νth-law device is necessary. This may be done by choosing the optimum value of ν based on the criterion for masimizing the detector output information capacity. It is shown that when the input of a νth-law detector consists of an amplitude modulated (AM) sine-wave signal and a stationary narrow-band white Gaussian noise, the square-law detector will give maximum output information capacity for very small input signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). In the case of a very large input SNR and a normally distributed signal modulating process on the AM sine wave signal, the linear detector will be considered as an optimum one."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Over-the-horizon communication systems normally use two identical antennas at each end. It is shown that an asymmetrical arrangement, for example, 6o'( )60' 30'( )30' is better than a symmetrical arrangement when both antennas at one end are used for diversity reception and the larger antenna at the other end is used for transmitting. This arrangement is important because for a given performance it costs less than the symmetrical arrangement. Depending on the exact relationship between cost and antenna gain, the cost is a minimum when the difference in antenna gains lies between 3.2 and 4.8 db. Statistical performance for various combining methods and degrees of diversity are presented. As for the case of equal medians derived previously, selector diversity combining is decidedly inferior to equal gain combining, which in turn is about one db worse than maximal ratio combining. The \"instantaneous\" SNR's (applicable to data transmission) are derived and compared to the usual short-term SNR's applicable to telephony."
"In UHF radio communications systems, the thermal noise limits the performance under weak received signal conditions. When the signal is strong, the nonlinear noise (sometimes called the intermodulation noise) may become the limiting factor. it is, therefore, imperative to control the intermodulation distortion contribution from the system components by careful equipment design and from the medium by appropriate choice of system parameters. In single-sideband systems, nonlinear noise may be attributed to two main causes: 1) transmitter nonlinearity and 2) receiver nonlinearity. Multipath effects in the medium do not seem to produce any nonlinear distortion, except selective amplitude fading or frequency distortion. Amplitude nonlinearity is the sole contributing factor in nonlinear noise. There is no set rule on the subdivision of nonlinear noise among both the transmitter and the receiver. Equal distribution seems to be a reasonable assumption. In some cases, an entirely different distribution may be desired, according to actual requirements. How to distribute the transmitter or receiver nonlinear noise among its components depends on the characteristics of the components. The general principle is to have the most economical design on every piece of the components, if possible and practicable. The nonlinear noise in single-sideband systems may be assumed to consist of only 3rd- and 5th-order products. It is further assumed that 3rd- and 5th-order products contribute to the total nonlinear noise in equal amounts in power. In frequency modulation systems, nonlinear noise may be attributed to three main causes: 1) transmitter nonlinearity, 2) multipath effect in the medium, and 3) receiver nonlinearity. Both amplitude and phase nonlinearities are equally important in the contribution to the noise and each should be considered carefully. The subdivision of nonlinear noise may be done in two ways. It may be distributed among the transmitter, the path and the receiver, or among the amplitude and phase nonlinearities. In either way, further subdivision is necessary in order to specify the amplitude or phase linearity requirements for the various components of the system. There is, again, no set rule on the distribution of nonlinear noise among the various causes. The same principle as applied to singlesideband systems as mentioned before may be used for frequencymodulation systems. The nonlinear noise in frequency-modulation systems, may be assumed to consist of only 2nd- and 3rd-order products. It is further assumed that 2nd- and 3rd-order products contribute to the total nonlinear noise in equal amounts. Methods for performance evaluation, based on signal-to-nonlinear-noise ratio, are given and sample calculations are made to illustrate the methods. In the test of a complete system, either two-tone or noise loading tests may be used. Assuming that only 3rd-order nonlinear noise is predominant and that a peak factor of 10 db for random noise is chosen, the noise loading test signal-to-nonlinear ratio is 8 db higher than the two-tone test ratio if the rms power in the two tests are equal. However, if the peak power in the two tests is equal, both ratios are the same."
"The factors influencing the speed at which data can be transmitted, and those determining the error rate, are summarized as an introduction to a statement in respect to error rates measured. Different applications for data transmission are considered in relation to the amount of error correction which may be justified. Various forms of error detection and correction are illustrated, and the probability of undetected errors is considered from a theoretical point of view for a random distribution of errors. These results are then compared with records obtained by practical tests using various redundancy arrangements. It is concluded that there is a substantial advantage in the use of large (500-bit) rather than small (50-bit) blocks for detecting errors. It is also suggested that the practical evidence of error patterns which remain undetected should enable more effective detection designs to be produced."
"A digital computer simulation program is described for use by communications systems and equipment designers who must consider electromagnetic interference. The program determines the interference experienced by a test receiver in a signal environment resulting from its associated transmitter, a large deployment of potentially interfering transmitters, and by atmospheric and cosmic noise sources. Simulation models are designed to represent such transmitter characteristics as antenna gain and scan patterns, polarization and emitted power spectrum; other models represent propagation phenomena such as scattering, reflection, fading and tropospheric refraction; and such receiver characteristics as antenna gain patterns, frequency selectivity and demodulator transfer characteristics. Signal acceptability criteria are included to permit system scoring. Program flexibility is stressed so that optimum system design may be achieved through rapid evaluation of successive approximations."
"Experimental results are described to demonstrate the superiority of a maximal ratio combiner (or ratio squarer) over an optimal selector in the reception of fading HFSK signals."
"Envelope, phase and frequency demodulators exhibit a stronger-signal capture phenomenon which enables the noise to suppress the signal when the signal is the weaker of the two, and the signal to suppress the noise when the reverse is true. The presence of the noise thus imposes a threshold that must be exceeded by the signal for proper envelope, phase or frequency demodulation. A general discussion is presented of the relative signal and noise content of the envelope, phase and frequency of the resultant of an amplitude- or exponent-modulated sinusoid plus random-fluctuation noise, when one or the other is heavily dominant. An analysis is then presented of the effect of regenerative feedback around an amplitude limiter upon a sinusoid plus random noise in order to define the conditions under which a CW-type signal will be enhanced over a strong random-fluctuation noise. It is shown that an oscillating limiter whose output maintains a high degree of coherence in the presence of a pure random-noise excitation will boost a wide class of relatively weak coherent signals into predominance over the noise when such a signal is added to the noise. Substantial threshold reductions which have been demonstrated in the laboratory are thereby made possible."
"As a matter of editorial policy, there will be an increased demand on contributors to present their material well. \"Unreadability\" is not a measure of excellence; any article whose substance cannot be grasped after two readings by an interested reader reflects badly on its writer and on the depth of his understanding of his results and their general significance and place in the field. Writers must attempt to sell their contributions, and tell the general reader right in the Introduction why their results are important or why their articles are worth reading, and at whom the presentation is beamed."
"The need for very long-haul circuits of high-quality has developed considerably over the last few years. Recent developments in the under-seas cable field indicate that a global cable network might be devised to solve much of this traffic problem. A review is made of the basic considerations which enter into the planning of such a network, and it is pointed out that political difficulties may today pose far greater problems than any other single factor. Present and planned world cable systems are disclosed and it is pointed out that if advantage is taken of the alternate routing capabilities so offered, the required network can be reduced to a single globe-circling trunk. The factors which definitize the routing, such as economics, logistics, international agreements, presence of volcanic zones, and other inhospitable environments, are briefly discussed. It is shown that a 2-Mc cable, providing a 1-Mc band in each direction of transmission, is feasible. Performance capability may be based on a 10,000-nantical-mile section, and preliminary calculations indicate that toll-quality circuits over this length are possible. Preferred location of switching, centers is also given. Traffic from areas surrounding the global trunk can be readily fed in by spur circuits using tropospheric-scatter or microwave relay, submarine cable, or radio relays utilizing special long-endurance aircraft, according to requirements and terrain. It is suggested that the trans-African route should be a nine-link tropospheric-scatter system rather than a cable round the Cape. It is then shown that by these means, toll interconnections may be made between any two points over most of the globe, including most of the habitable part of the earth, and the major seaways and airways. It is concluded that this basic trunk could readily integrate with satellite trunks when these ultimately become operational."
"The characteristic distinguishing this equipment group resides in the words \"Equipment\", \"Universal\" and \"Combined''. As conceived by Rome Air Development Center, this approach is aimed to bring about a matrix of least-common buildingblock equipments with the built-in flexibility for mutual fit to make up any required radio relay or tropospheric scatter subsystem. It is intended that the resulting subsystem designs will enable a closer approach to the ideal \"universal\" trunk line radio communication subsystems for AIRCOM than has been hitherto possible. This is so mainly because the AN/FRC-( ) design objectives hew closely to the over-all comprehensive AIRCOM system plan, assuring fit and interface within a well-defined architectural scheme. The equipment group presently specified for development is characterized by the inherent versatility to compose line-of-sight radio or trope subsystems for AIRCOM applications demanding a high order of signal reliability (99.9 per cent), heavy baseband capacity (to 600 4-kc voice channels, or video equivalent), long trunk line distances (up to 6000 miles), and signal quality standards up to CCITT recommended values. The radio relay or tropospheric scatter subsystems so derived should compatibly feed from or into existing long-distance commercial communications facilities in the North American continent, and Air Force systems expected to be served by AIRCOM. This fresh departure from the conventional piecemeal subsystem design and fabrication was derived from the fundamental philosophy expressed by Strom and Kunze. As applied to radio relay and tropo scatter, this universality-andcombinability concept may well prove a forerunner to similar embodiments in related communication fields, with consequent benefits in uniformity, versatility, compatibility, growth potential and economy in time, money and logistics."
"A \"matched-traffic technique\" is proposed to control the hourly traffic volume so that the capability of the system is designed only to carry the urgent messages that require immediate transmission at the desired reliability. The urgent messages carried by preferred channels will be transmitted as usual all the times while the nonurgent messages carried by delayed channels will be transmitted when the fading conditions improve. This technique may permit reductions in required transmitter power and antenna size."
"Data transmission tests were performed on leased telephone circuits using two different sets of terminal equipments. The first applied phase-reversal modulation (PM), the second, frequency-shift keying (FSK). The transmission speeds were 750 or 1625 baud in the former and 750 or 1500 baud in the latter case. Nine different circuits, having an average length of 980 km, were tested. Only erroneous blocks were recorded, the blocklength being in the PM case one quarter and in the FSK case one half of the 250 bits provisionally recommended by the CCITT. A block error occurred, on the average, in every 1000-10,000 correct blocks. On shorter circuits or under special conditions average error rates of one in 100,000 seem possible. On the average, 250-millions bits were transmitted per test. The test procedure is illustrated in one selected example, which is also particularly interesting because of the unusually high outage time of the circuit during the test period."
"A program has been initiated for study of complete data communication systems by a general purpose analog computer. Complete PM and FM systems including transmitter, receiver, and channel have been simulated. Illustrative results and a discussion of criteria of performance are presented."
"A communications system is described which eliminates oscillator-frequency drift problems by incorporating an amplitude modulated transmitter modulated by an oscillator tuned to half the intermediate frequency of the receiver. The use of a balance modulator elimates the carrier and allows energy at the two sideband frequencies to be propagated to a receiver. In the receiver these two sidebands are beat against each other to produce the IF signal. No receiver local oscillator is required. Only one high-frequency oscillator, the transmitter carrier oscillator, is used in the entire system, and frequency drift problems are reduced to those of low-frequency oscillators. However, preliminary investigation indicates that a bandwidth of twice that of a regular communications system is required in most cases. The system may prove useful at frequencies between the microwave and infrared regions."
"This paper describes a limited experimental study of a technique for enhancing the intelligibility of speech transmitted by amplitude modulation over noisy channels. The technique requires that the two sidebands of the received signal be demodulated separately by conventional single-sideband methods, and that the resulting audio signals be presented to the listener via headphones as binaural stimuli. The experimental results indicate that when white noise is the only form of interference, the technique yields better intelligibility scores than conventional AM detection for most values of SNR. Although practical applications appear to be limited, the technique is interesting because it exploits a perceptual faculty of human listeners."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"The growing importance of digital communication links has resulted in a family of coding methods designed to achieve reduced-time digital facsimile transmission. This paper reports on a study of the effectiveness and feasibility of one of these methods, Run Length Coding (RLC). RLC is a well-known digital method in which the area and shade of the copy are quantized to form a mosaic pattern. Neighboring elements of the mosaic are successively scanned, and redundancy is removed by coding and transmitting only lengths between shade changes (run lengths) rather than individual area elements. Measurements of the statistical distribution of run lengths of various copy were made to determine the possible transmission time reduction. Digital equipment and a drum scanner were used to measure the statistics of weather maps, topographic maps, text, diagrams, and continuous-tone pictures (quantized to four shade levels). The maximum possible time reduction was calculated for each type of copy, and practical codes were then designed and evaluated. The average time reduction factor for black and white copy was four, compared to a theoretical optimum of 4.7. Since the maximum bit rate of the transmission line should be continuously utilized, and since time reduction factors for particular runs depend on the lengths of the runs, a practical RLC facsimile system must possess either a variable speed scan, a large and elastic buffer storage, or some combination of the two. A system is proposed whose encoding principle permits a feasible compromise between these two extremes, and whose implementation involves a flying-spot scanner that is converted into a digital device by means of optical reference gratings."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The author of the above-named work, which appeared on pages 51-57 of the March, 1961, issue of these Transactions, requested the following addition to his paper: \"The research reported was performed at New York University, N.Y., under the sponsorship of the Air Force Command and Control Development Division, Air Research and Development Command, Laurence G. Hanscom Field, Bedford, Mass.\""
"This paper discusses the transmission of binary data over a fading frequency-division multiplexed FM (FDM-FM)radio system. The important results are convenient design formulas for binary error rate in terms of the symbol duration, the IF bandwidth, the per channel rms frequency deviation, the average received carrier-to-noise ratio, and the particular types of binary detection and diversity combining techniques used. By using accepted telephone talker statistics and the CCIF recommendations with regard to data channel loading in a combined voice-data system binary error rate is further related to FM deviation ratio, and the pre-emphasis time constant etc., which are of more specific interest to system design. An important corollary of the analysis is that in a fading environment FDM-FM offers relatively inefficient means for data transmission. In particular it is shown that an FDM-FM data system does not perform as well as does the equivalent FDM-SSB system by an amount in the order of 10 db."
"Short-sighted system planning has resulted in the evolution and system mix of both megawatt and microwatt power level equipments with little concern for the over-all system degradations which result from sub-system interactions. Unfortunately the effects of these interactions are often felt far beyond the immediate system. As a result, the full use of extremely sensitive sensors and detectors, which are often very susceptible to spurious and background noise and to interference, may not be economically feasible in view of the cost or impracticability of the accessory background noise and spurious signal elimination devices. As pulsed equipment powers increase to megawatts and pulse lengths become longer than communications bit lengths, spurious suppression far beyond state-of-the-art is necessary if the over-all system is not to be degraded. The problem is serious in that the industrial managers or military commanders will not realize problems exist until the system fails when it is needed. Graphical analysis methods and guidelines for future developments are presented."
"The sweep-frequency oblique sounder is a powerful tool for the study of ionospheric propagation over actual communication circuits. In addition, since it provides the pulse response of the ionosphere as a function of frequency it is potentially a powerful tool for improving communication via the ionsphere. The Defence Research Telecommunications Establishment's (DRTE) experience in using sweep-frequency sounding for the study of HF radio propagation over both short and long paths is described. These include difficult communication circuits in the auroral zone where unreliability is frequently encountered. These studies have revealed many inadequacies in our present prediction systems. Preliminary attempts to use oblique-sounding information for improving present HF communication circuit reliability have been made, but to obtain full advantage of this technique improved communication systems are required. A description is given of a proposal, which is only one of many possible, for using the obliquesounding technique on HF radio circuits to obtain more reliable long distance communication."
"The existence of many special purpose military communication systems will be pointed out, and the efficiency resulting from integrating these separate systems is discussed, as against the technical complexities involved in modifying them for interconnection. The various degrees of integration is considered, from maintaining separate channels on shared-baseband systems to complete interconnection facilities among the end instruments or input-output devices of the systems concerned. The constraints on switching arrangements dictated by minimum over-all transmission quality are considered, particularly as they affect alternative routing. Also examined is the practicality of reducing these constraints by limiting certain end-instrument stations to access to a limited number of other stations in the many cases in which such end-instrument stations have no occasion to be connected to more than a very limited group of other stations. Automatic interconnection between systems having different numbering plans presents problems which are not always easily solved. The solution by the establishment of a common over-all numbering plan might require small systems with short messages to use too large a precentage of circuit time in establishing a connection. Considerations involved in integrating voice and data systems are discussed, as well as considerations in combining message-switching and line-switching systems. Finally, the importance of definitely established quantitative standards in integrating systems is emphasized, and various activities involved in the establishment of such standards are reviewed."
"First, the distortion due to the telephone channel is calculated by considering the instantaneous frequency of the transmitted signal, the telephone channel being defined in terms of its frequency characteristics: attenuation and group delay. The results are easily obtained when the signal is recurrent. Calculations have been carried out on a particular binary signal, for some typical telephone lines, the results being presented as time variations of instantaneous frequency and amplitude. Then, consideration is given to the distortion coming from other disturbances, such as frequency stability, imperfect limitation and, more specially, noises. Two typical sources of noise are examined: noise consisting of a sine wave, and white noise. Distortion is evaluated in each case by calculating the maximum disturbance, this being done for an ideal binary signal, and also for a signal already affected by some typical inperfection of the telephone channel."
"The nominal 4-kc telephone channel is by far the most dominant parameter of contemporary telecommunication networks. It is, directly or otherwise, underwritten by a world-wide investment of the order of fifty billion dollars. The engineering of present and future global communication networks must therefore provide for working with and into such channels, concomitantly with finding avenues out of their limitations as a device for partitioning and and utilizing communications space. This paper is a characterization of the telephone channel to a first order of approximation-its loss, phase and noise characteristics and some related operational factors."
"This paper presents the procedure for evaluating the jamming vulnerability of a communication system. The factors considered include system performance under laboratory conditions, characteristics of transmission channels, power and transmitter design of jammer, and the costs of desired communication and jamming systems."
"This paper describes the test equipment which was used jointly in 1959 by Post Office authorities and IBM for evaluation of the data transmission feasibility over European telephone networks. A summary of the results gained is displayed and demonstrates the feasibility of data transmission even if many problems are still to be solved. In the second part of the paper a method for recording and analyzing the errors is explained briefly. This method uses a conventional way of programming a computer and will be used in the future for statistical studies on error distributions."
"The existing start-stop telegraph system as used in the telex service allows for the transmission of 400 telegraph characters per minute when the CCIT recommended speed of 50 bauds is used. The signals comprise a start element and 5 information elements, each of unit length (20 msec), and a stop element with a duration of I 1/2 units, so that a telegraph signal of this type has a duration of 150 msec. This system allows for the transmission of 52 different letters and figures and six functionals, two of which are used for the change from letter shift to figure shift and vise versa. In this paper it is shown that it is possible to omit the stop element in a start-stop transmission of telegraph signals. This increases the telegraph speed from 400 characters per minute to 500 characters per minute. When special means are used and when it is possible to limit the the system to the transmission of numerical information, only a start element and four information elements are required. The telegraph speed will increase in that case to 600 characters per minute. This gain in speed may be exchanged for a parity check on the correct transmission. Various possibilities and their consequences are discussed in this paper."
"A set of design curves of peak intermodulation distortion due to frequency selective fading, as a function of information bandwidth, is derived for tropospheric scatter systems. These curves are applicable to systems frequency-modulated with frequency-division multiplexed telephone and telegraph channels. A two-ray tropospheric scatter model was selected in order to derive general results. This, however, restricts the use of the design curves to the region where the information bandwidth is less than the propagation bandwidth. Equations for intermodulation distortion are evaluated for parameters normally encountered in tropospheric scatter systems. A method of obtaining a probability distribution of the distortion is indicated, and an example is worked out in detail. The intermodulation distortion due to frequency selective fading will exceed the thermal noise in some systems, and should be taken into consideration when designing tropospheric scatter systems."
"Military networks must deliver messages during periods of high noise. On a link basis, character reliability can be increased using decision feedback for error control. Two specific decision feedback schemes are described in detail. The improved reliabilities and the reduced capacities for information transfer are computed. A method is then given for determining the optimal message route between each origin and destination-that is, the route whose capacity is maximum such that the route character reliability is adequate. Using a typical military network as an example, and typical jamming noise, optimal routes are determined from a station to each of six stations. The routes thus chosen are compared with routes chosen by another criterion."
"The upper limit to the output SNR of sampled-data PCM systems is set by the quantization noise. The present study is concerned with a method of overcoming this limitation by employing time shifting of the PCM pulse groups so as to constitute an analog encoding of the difference between the sample amplitude and the nearest quantization level. Thus PCM is introduced to serve as a vernier to PPM. For this Vernier system the optimum values are found of 1) the number of pulses per pulse group for a given time-bandwidth per pulse group and 2) the detection threshold. An SNR analysis is then carried out, comparing this system with conventional doublepolarity PCM and with conventional single-polarity PPM. This comparison is made on the basis of equal energy and time-bandwidth per pulse group and a simplified model of the channel and detection scheme. The analysis shows that the Vernier system's threshold of channel SNR required for reliable detection is about 6 db higher than that for pure PCM, but that, near and beyond this threshold, the Vernier system's performance exceeds that of pure PCM and of pure PPM consistently and considerably. This improvement in performance can be realized as an increase in output SNR, as a decrease in time-bandwidth occupancy, or as a combination of these advantages."
"Heretofore cable, land-line telegraph, and microwave channeling has been limited to approximately 1100 bits per second (bauds), utilizing 22 subcarriers spaced 120 cps apart. Frequency shift keying, together with more sophisticated filter design, has enabled this capacity to be doubled. High data transmission speeds require frequency division multiplexing in order to reduce the distortion in the received signal. A certain degree of time division multiplexing is desirable although it is more economical and otherwise required to utilize frequency division multiplexing to a greater degree. This paper describes means for accommodation of traffic over the transatlantic telephone cable voice channels at a speed of more than 2200 bits per second with reasonably low error rates. Techniques for this utilize sine wave keying pulses at the fundamental keying rate over subcarriers spaced every 120 cps from 420 cps to 2940 cps, and time division multiplex of the slower input information channels. Cable outages require adequate, not necessarily 100 per cent, backup by independent sideband HF radio circuits using similar subcarrier modulation with tones spaced at 170-cps intervals instead of 120-cps by reason of the additional distortion-due multipath delay. Examples of filter characteristics for reception and transmission to accomplish this are shown, as well as typical equipment for each tone channel. Curves presented give distortion at various speeds per subcarrier and illustrate the effects of cross-talk and tone jitter as per cent distortion vs keying rate."
"This paper discusses the design of an automatic on-line computer-to-computer intercommunications system with locations at several data processing centers throughout the world. The solution to the problem is developed in logical order starting with the selection of a transmission medium. Leased private wire telephone facilities were found to be the best world-wide common denominator for economically meeting reliability and speed (1200, 2400 and 600 bit/sec) criteria. Pertinent statistical information characterized the transmission environment with short periods of high burst noise and long periods of error-free transmission. A statistically related burst \"error model\" of 48 successive bits subject to error was derived. Several available error detecting and correcting codes were considered, and the limitations of each explored. A geometric block code combined with a Hamming cyclical code was found to possess excellent burst error detection capability (343 consecutive bits subject to error or an error correction capacity of one \"error model\" of 48 bits). When this forward acting code is combined with decision feedback the probability of undetected error entering the system is reduced to less than that in computer systems. Implementation of the code structure is uniquely suitable to time sharing and linear-feedback shift-register techniques."
"With the arrival of digital data-processing techniques, it becomes necessary both to increase the speed of communication between the data-processing and automatic control equipments and to increase the reliability with which the data are transmittedparticularly over comparatively long ranges. With the immense number of systems that must be developed to provide the everincreasing amount of data processing required by modern technology and modern business, a reliable digital data transmission technique for use over long ranges becomes critically important. This paper describes a high-frequency, digital data communication system using the quantized frequency-modulation (QFM) technique and the quantized phase-modulation (QPM) technique. QFM is a synchronous frequency shifting technique that can provide a predetermined amount of gap protection between successively transmitted pulses on the same subchannel frequency. The combination of these two techniques (defined below) provides a system with the capability of combating propagation anomalies found in the HF spectrum. The design of the system provides for a basic bit rate of 1000 bits/sec and is capable of expansion to 8000 bits/sec. System peripheral equipments provide digital inputs from facsimile and voice (Vocoder), as well as from multispeed teletype. Highly miniaturized modular construction is used throughout for all equipments and installations."
"Experimental parametric converters were installed on a quadruple-diversity link of the White Alice system. Two parametric receivers with noise figures of 1.5 db were operated simultaneously with two normal receivers of 8.8-db noise figures. Comparative measurements showed improvements of 7 db in telephone-channel noise and 10-fold in teletype error-rates."
"Error bursts in data transmission systems do not usually occur completely at random. It has been found that often they follow a hyperbolic rather than a Poisson distribution. Several statistical quantities consistent with the hyperbolic distribution have been developed. These are compared with the corresponding quantities for a Poisson distribution. Specifically, the quantities are the probability of exactlycbursts in a time interval for which the long-time average isa, the cumulative probability of at leastcbursts in this time interval, and the cumulative probability of burstfree stretches ofutime intervals or longer."
"A detailed analysis is made of propagation data obtained from the North Atlantic Scatter System installed in Iceland. In particular, the correlation of the transmission loss and meteorological observations on a long path is analyzed in detail. By separating the data into various time periods, it is shown that for periods of time during which the received field is lowest, the correlation between transmission loss and surface refractivity is very high. The ability to establish a strong correlation between transmission loss and surface refractivity for this period allows the system designer to make more accurate predictions of the lower expected received fields and thus is able to calculate the minimum required transmitter with greater accuracy."
"The \"optimum\" system is examined with the aid of a basic equation related to channel SNR. Expressions are then developed which show that for equal channel loading and capacity, FM systems are likely to be superior to SSB systems for normal voice channel operation. Further improvement in FM performance may be achieved with \"phase-locked\" receivers. Performance equations for such receivers are used in basic expressions for optimized scatter circuits to express channel capacity as a function of maximum distance for minimum power. From this equipment configurations for various performance capabilities are developed. These data then give the maximum capability of the tropospheric scatter system when all relevant design parameters are optimized. It is suggested that long-haul toll performance criteria should be based on six tandem links. This leads to a per-link requirement for channel signal-to-weighted thermal noise ratio with quadruple diversity operation of 45.7 db, and 53 db for the channel signal-toweighted nonlinear noise ratio. Difficulties in the measurement of thermal noise are discussed. It is believed that a suitable approach is to specify single-link performance in terms of a distribution obtained with one-to-two minute averaged samples. Data are also developed for the minimum permissible system bandwidth and the transmitted spectrum as a function of channel capacity. Finally, it is considered that the performance in multilink multichannel circuits may be limited by nonlinear noise introduced by multipath effects related to selective fading. In this respect, further research is necessary in order to obtain reliable computational techniques for the intermodulation noise associated with the multichannel system."
"Some proposed tropospheric scatter paths are several hundred miles long, and their geometry suggests the possibility that the increased relative delays of signal components traveling the higher-altitude paths could result in significant interchannel modulation interference in an FM system. Therefore, a program of experimental investigation has been undertaken by Bell Telephone Laboratories to determine the extent of the intermodulation problem. Tone amplitude stability tests have been included as part of the study. The first in a planned series of tests was conducted during March, 1960, over the 185-mile FM system between Florida City, Fla. and Guanabo, Cuba. The system was loaded with random noise of various bandwidths up to 2.5 Mc, and peak deviations up to ±8 Mc were used. Tests were made with no diversity and with dual diversity. It was found that intermodulation, resulting from multipath propagation can _limit system performance. Both deviation and base bandwidth are important and have an influence on intermodulation and tone stability. Diversity has little effect on intermodulation but improves tone stability appreciably. The paper presents numerical results of the measurements of average intermodulation and some information on cumulative probability distributions for various combinations of base bandwidth, deviation, and diversity."
"Discussed herein is a point-to-point communication system for ranges in the order of hundreds of miles where the transmitting and receiving equipment, including radiating devices, can be buried deep underground. Results of theoretical analyses and subsequent experimental verifications of various aspects of the communication system have been presented in this paper. Problems on the optimization of system parameters for different geo-electromagnetic conditions of the ground, noise environment, and for various system constraints are discussed. Also presented in the paper are the solutions of some of the above problems suitable for engineering uses."
"This paper presents the basic characteristics of impulse noise and its effects on various types of binary data transmission systems. The sources and properties of such impulsive noise, in contrast to Gaussian noise, are discussed. A method is described for the experimental comparative evaluation of bit error rates in the presence of additive impulse noise. The method is shown to permit unique comparison among the three modulation schemes tested, namely, on/off carrier, frequency shift, and phase reversal keying."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"An applications review is presented of a singlesideband suppressed-carrier 600-channel all-transistorized multiplex system for use on cable, and line-of-sight or tropospheric scatter radio circuits. System flexibility provides for growth in 12-channel increments up to the full channel complement. Highly ruggedized modular construction, and miniaturized printed-circuit techniques are employed throughout. System design accommodates voice, data, teletype, and graphic services. Certain features of the system that aid in the alignment and maintenance of the equipment by personnel with limited specialized training, are discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The bulk of the world's long-distance communications presently takes place in the high-frequency radio spectrum (between approximately 3 and 30 Mc), by means of ionospheric reflection. The ionosphere is formed mainly by ultraviolet radiation emitted from the sun, and its capability to reflect HF radio waves varies diurnally, seasonally, geographically and throughout the sunspot cycle. While the physical nature of sunspots and the cause of the 11-year sunspot cycle are not yet clearly understood, it is known that solar activity is a reliable index of the total available bandwidth, or propagationally useful capacity of the HF radio spectrum. During periods of high solar activity, as occurred between 1957 and 1959, the ionosphere is capable of reflecting radio waves over a very wide range of frequencies between approximately 3 and 50 Mc; when the solar cycle declines to low levels, frequencies above 20 Mc may seldom be reflected. This paper points out that the present sunspot cycle, which climbed to an unprecedented peak during early 1958, is now declining. This decline is expected to continue until the cycle reaches a minimum sometime during 1965. There are also indications that the present cycle may be followed by three cycles of relatively low maxima, which could result in unusually low solar activity for the remainder of the century. Such a drastic reduction in solar activity would be accompanied by a similar reduction in the amount of propagationally useful HF spectrum. The spectrum will be compressed more or less linearly towards the lower frequency end as the solar cycle declines. During the forthcoming years of low solar activity the HF spectrum may be reduced by more than one-half that available during the recent years of high sunspot count (1957-1959). Such a reduction in the traffic handling capability of the HF spectrum, coupled with the ever increasing world-wide demands for additional HF circuits, leads to the conclusion that the HF radio spectrum will become progressively less useful for communications during the years ahead, and that the amount of available useful spectrum will fall far short of meeting the anticipated demands. To avoid communications chaos which could easily result from such a condition, this paper concludes by urging that space satellite communication systems, intercontinental microwave links and expanded underwater multichannel cables as well as other communication systems not dependent upon the vagaries of the ionosphere, be developed at an accelerated pace."
"Some aspects of the entire global telecommunication system are considered with emphasis on transmission delay and circuit instabilities. Some calculations are made using CCITT recommendations. Attention is then focused on the local networks and terminal equipment and their relation to the entire system."
"This paper describes briefly the Western Electric type TJ microwave Radio System designed for operation in the 10.7 to ll.7-kMc frequency allocation, and covers the performance of this system since it was placed in service across Chesapeake Bay on February 1, 1959. This is the first TJ system to be placed in service in the territory of The Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia, and operates between Hampton and Kiptopeke, Va., a distance of 22.5 statute miles. The over-water portion of this path has a length of 18.5 miles."
"The application of well-known techniques in the re-examination of existing systems, aided by interference charts to identify areas of greatest vulnerability, will prolong the useful life of present equipment and guide designers of future systems to meet advancements in the state of the art."
"Effects of natural electromagnetic phenomena on wireline circuits are discussed. An important factor causing degradation of system operation or damage to equipment is the occurrence of earth currents, or geoelectric variations, associated with electromagnetic storms. Three to six earth-current storms occur yearly, during and after the maximum of the sunspot cycle. Peak disturbances last 10 to 30 minutes and return to normal within 6 to 48 hours. Typical disturbances are 3 to 20 v/km in the auroral zones, 0.5 to 5.0 v/km in middle latitudes, and less than 100 mv/km near the equator. Current flow is generally N-S, except near the geomagnetic equator where it is E-W. Undisturbed diurnal variations exhibit the same general characteristics, but attain values in the range of 5 to 300 mv/km. Cases are cited of adverse effects on commercial circuits; open wire, buried cable, and submarine cable systems are compared. Geophysical processes underlying geoelectric variations are discussed briefly."
"Techniques for optimal mean-square linear reconstruction from quantized samples of a random signal and the resulting errors are discussed in this paper. The signal is assumed to be wide-sense stationary with Gaussian statistics. The shape of the sample pulse is arbitrary. It is shown that the pulse shape has no effect upon the minimum mean-square error. An optimal linear filter for reconstruction from quantized samples and the resulting error are obtained. The mean-square error that arises when the optimal filter for unquantized samples reconstructs from quantized samples is also obtained. The errors of the above-mentioned filters are then compared. It is shown that, for sufficiently high sampling rates, the filter that takes quantizing into account can achieve a significant reduction in quantizing error relative to the filter for unquantized samples. However, when a constraint of constant channel capacity is imposed, there is essentially no difference between the optimal performances of the two filters."
"Before any communications circuit can be established between two points, whether it be by wire lines, or by tropospheric or ionospheric radio propagation, a thorough knowledge of the intended path should be obtained so that an efficient and economical installation can be made. Each system should have as high a reliability as is required for its intended use. Tropospheric forward scatter circuits have established their place in the worldwide communications network of the military and it is the intent of this paper to illustrate by a specific example how the performance of a circuit of this type may be predicted with adequate accuracy without making costly transmission loss measurements over the intended path."
"It has long been recognized that impulse noises or even very short duration line interruptions are the most vicious form of interference affecting data communications over wire lines. These noises, while annoying, are not catastrophic in voice communications because of the inherent redundancy in speech sounds. If a degree of apparent redundancy can be inserted into a data stream, the serious degradation caused by these noises can be materially reduced. Data signals which require a sizable bandwidth can be transmitted by modifying the real time placement of their frequency components (smearing) before transmission through a channel corrupted by impulse noises. A reversal of the time-vsenergy frequency modification before detection (desmear) reconstructs the data signal but \"smears\" the impulse or line interruption into a time-energy distribution form considerable different from that of the signal."
"Our obligation as the professional group most concerned with communications systems is to help stimulate the organization of the necessary efforts, the circulation of the existing information, the definition of the problems that must be solved, and the anticipation of the equipment needs. As a necessary step in this direction we call for contributions to the organization of special issues of the TRANSACTIONS on areas of special concern. Three areas have been singled out for immediate work: Problems of Space Communication, Problems of Digital Data Transmission, and Problems of Communications Nets. Suggestions for organization of these issues and contributions in these areas are earnestly solicited. In order to secure an adequate \"backbone\" for each issue, special review papers are invited and will be sought from likely contributors. Coordination will be effected through the advance publication of outlines of the desired issues in this editorial section of the TRANSACTIONS. An important parting remark is in order. These special issues will not replace regular issues of the TRANSACTIONS. In order to keep up with our fundamental obligation to publish timely contributions that do not fall in these special areas, we shall publish the \"special issues\" as major sections of regular issues."
"A frequency-division multiplex system (MADFAS) is described for operation at HF with less bandwidth than is commonly allowed. The reduction in required bandwidth is achieved by using oscillators with greater frequency stability, and signaling by FSK with the minimum frequency shift compatible with the keying speed. Details on the design and operational characteristics of the system are presented."
"Artificial satellite repeaters will revolutionize radio communication by permitting the use of microwaves over long paths. There will also be a continuing and mounting need for terrestrial applications of microwave services over relatively short distances. Achieving coexistence between these long- and shortdistance systems will conserve and enhance the utilization of the microwave spectrum. Extensions of prior interference coordination techniques, such as use of three-dimensional antenna directivity, can cause the desired signal to override interfering signals and thus permit most satellite communication systems to share frequencies with most terrestrial microwave communication systems. Even though satellite communication may not need such a large fraction of the microwave spectrum for some years, focusing prompt attention on the needs and probable problems of frequency sharing can help guide its evolution around subsequent difficulties."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In this paper the nonlinear equations which describe the switching hypersurface of anNth-order linear time-invariant system, with real negative distinct poles, are developed when the input to the system is restricted in amplitude, either intentionally through the use of a relay or due to saturation of the power element. Based on the equations of the switching hypersurfaces, a design procedure is offered which will result in the optimum transient system response for any initial output or error initial conditions in the absence of an input."
"Consider a sampled-data control system with the following sequence of components in the forward path: a sampler with periodT, a zero-order hold circuit, a linear amplifier with saturation limits ±1, and a plant with transfer functionG(s)=\\frac{1}{\\Pi\\min{i=1}\\max{n} (s-\\lambda_{i})}.It is assumed that the poles\\lambda_{1}, \\lambda_{2}, ... , \\lambda_{n}ofG(s)are real, distinct, and non-positive (a single integral is permissible). The sampler, zero-order hold, and saturating amplifier constrainf(t), the forcing function ofG(s), to be piecewise constant with values between -1 and +1. The forcing functionf(t)is completely defined, fort>0, by the sequence of numbersf_{1}, f_{2}, ... , where fiis the value off(t)during the i'th sampling period. The minimal time regulator problem for the above system can then be stated as follows: GivenG(s)with an arbitrary set of initial conditions [i.e., the state vector\\overrightarrow{c(0)}defined by its componentsc(0), \\dot{c}(0), ... , c^{n-1}(0)]; find the forcing functionf(t)[specified byf_{1}, f_{2}, ...and satisfying|f_{i}| \\leq 1], and the corresponding computer in the feedback loop which will bring the system to equilibrium in the minimum number of sampling periods. Any such forcing function will be called an optimal control. The first step is to considerR_{N}'the set of all initial states\\overrightarrow{c(0)}from which the origin can be reached inNsampling periods or less. From this definition all such states are characterized algebraically and geometrically:R_{N}'is shown to be a convex polyhedron with2 \\sum\\min{k=1}\\max{n} ({N-1}\\over{k-1})vertices. Let RNbe the set of all initial states\\overrightarrow{c(0)}from which the origin can be reached inNsampling periods and no less. Each point of RNis shown to have a unique canonical representation. The coefficients appearing in the canonical representation suggest an optimal control. To obtain this particular optimal control we define a surface in state space called the critical surface. It is shown that this optimal control will be generated by the following procedure: at the beginning of each sampling period the distance φ from the state of the system to the critical surface is measured along a fixed specified direction; if\\phi \\geq 1(or ≤ -1) then the forcing function for that sampling period is +1 (or -1); if|\\phi| < 1, then the forcing function is φ. For a third-order plant it is shown that the critical surface has certain properties which lead to a simple analog computer simulation."
"A synthesis procedure for linear time-varying sampled-data feedback systems is described. Just as in the continuous system case, one of the advantages of feedback in a sampled-data system is that it can potentially reduce the effect of plant variations on the system performance. To a certain extent, load disturbance and instrument noise may be simultaneously reduced also. A time-domain sensitivity matrix is defined and used in the design of the digital compensators for prescribed insensitivity of the system to plant variation. In addition, two optimization criteria are presented for the design of these compensators when load disturbance and instrument noise have to be reduced as well. The procedure is also applicable to fime-invariant sampled-data systems."
"This paper describes a synthesis procedure for terminal control systems. The synthesis procedure is illustrated by application to the design of an aircraft automatic landing system. A simplified model for the landing aircraft is chosen and justified. The prediction equations for this model are discussed. Using the prediction equations, a two-condition terminal controller, which controls the altitude and altitude rate at time of touchdown to the desired values, is developed. The terminal control landing system developed is simplified by combining feedback loops in a straightforward fashion to arrive at a practical mechanization. A stability analysis of the simplified terminal controller, considered as a servo with time variable gains and time constants, is presented. The results of extensive analog computer simulation and flight test of the terminal control landing system developed in this paper are reviewed. It is shown that the synthesis procedures developed in this paper result in a system which can be implemented by state-of-art hardware to land aircraft successfully."
"A generally applicable performance index for linear feedback systems is proposed. This performance index enables one to specify a desired (ideal) response towards which the system is optimized. The response of any unity-numerator system can be chosen as the ideal response. The coefficients of the performance index are determined from the specified ideal response, and the procedure of optimization is equivalent to minimization of the numerical value of this performance index. The procedure for constructing Liapunov functions for linear systems is used to minimize the performance index. System optimization is illustrated by means of examples. The results indicate that the smaller the numerical value of the performance index, the closer the actual system response approaches the specified ideal response."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A power plant with a heat exchanger such as a nuclear reactor substituted for the conventional chemical interburn-ers in a jet engine will cause a considerable change in dynamic performance. The instantaneous power generated by the heat source is not the same as the instantaneous power delivered to the turbine. The basic control problems are analyzed using fixed control parameters and partial derivatives around a given operating point. A mathematical criterion is developed and correlated with power plant test data. An understanding of the inherent limitations of combining a reactor, or any heat exchanger having a thermal lag, with a basic jet engine makes it possible to devise a means of control. The introduction of an effective operational speed control makes it possible to operate a complete power plant under any desired condition."
"The problem of the filtering of elastic phenomena (bending and sloshing) from space booster-control feedbacks has become increasingly difficult as bending frequencies approach control frequencies in large vehicles. The design problem is compounded by the loop-gain requirements for control of an aerodynamically unstable airframe in a dynamic wind environment. This paper presents a \"model feedback\" approach to this design problem in which the system does not attempt to \"adapt\" to body bending, but instead is contrived to ignore it. The vehicle-body feedbacks, required for stability and control, are synthesized by a combination of actual body motion and information from a model of the rigid body acted upon by the control force. Following an investigation of stability and response for this system, attention is focused on the problem of response to disturbances such as wind, gusts and shear."
"Theoretical and simulation studies of a parameter-perturbation self-adaptive system are discussed. A number of system block diagrams are included, showing diverse applications of parameter-perturbation adaptive techniques. A particular study has been made using error signals based on an ideal model, and the concept of high-frequency perturbation of the model has been introduced. A linearized mathematical model of the adaptive loop for the system-adaptive scheme has been obtained using time-varying system analysis. Experimental verification of the mathematical model has been obtained with an analog computer. It is shown that increased speed of adaptive loop response is possible with high-frequency perturbation of model parameters. Simulation studies have also shown the feasibility of adaptive control with random system input, and random parameter disturbances."
"The characteristics of a process may be estimated from an observation over a finite interval of time of the input and output variables of the system during a period of normal operation. The determination of the most effective method of analyzing the observed data and of estimating the probable errors in such an analysis is an important problem in the study of complex processes and in the design of adaptive controllers for time-varying systems. For adaptive control systems, it is desirable to base this system \"identification\" analysis on as short an operating record as possible, consistent with the specified degree of accuracy to be obtained. This paper is concerned with the problem of impulse-response estimation based on such short \"normal operating\" records. If the measurements of the system variables are corrupted by noise, the impulse-response parameter estimates will be random variables, since, for a given record length, these estimates vary from one sample of the observed data to the next, depending on the variation in the characteristics of the noise and the input signal during each short segment of the record. The expected \"integrated-squared-error\" between the actual and the computed impulse responses is shown to depend only on the input signal and the noise characteristics. A method of computing the expected-integrated-squared error for a given input signal is developed to provide a test of the reliability of the identification routine for each analysis. With assumptions on the statistical nature of the input signal, this \"sufficient signal\" criterion is transformed to a \"sufficient record length\" criterion. Examples are given for two such specific assumptions: 1) An input signal with a Gaussian amplitude distribution. 2) A switching-type input signal which jumps between +1 and -1 with a random distribution of switching times. Results are presented in sampled-data form."
"This paper describes a system for determining the parameters of a transfer function of the form: a constant divided by a polynomial in the Laplacian variables. The system is described in detail for a polynomial of second order, but may be extended to polynomials of any order. The system may be realized in terms of ordinary analog computer components. It presents the information in a form which may be readily inserted into a controller for realization of a general type of adaptive control system."
"A technique for measuring the impulse response of linear processes while they are on line is described. Such an identification of process dynamics is necessary in process-adaptive control systems. A testing signal and correlating filter are employed after the manner of Turin. Such a procedure requires no multiplier, and the output of the filter is the impulse response as a continuous function of real time. To reduce accompanying output noise, the method of adding coherently the results of a number of tests made in succession is proposed. This idea is applied to the measurement of a member of an ensemble of slowly varying impulse responses. Optimum design of both the correlating filter and the necessary test signal is determined on the basis of minimum mean-square error of the resulting estimate. The optimization of the number of tests to be included in a measurement is described. The general results are applied to the case of a single, slowly time-varying process. In addition to optimum design, normalized curves showing the optimum number of tests for a particular mode of variation are included. A second application is made to the problem of measuring a member of an ensemble of fixed processes. The results of a digital computer simulation of this case are given."
"A modification of the original Lyapunov stability criterion is given, which includes intermediate conditions of stability, as well as \"stability in the small\" and \"stability in the large.\" A means is developed for applydng it to practical control problems that eliminates much of the guesswork usually required with Lyapunov methods of investigation. The process is based upon an integration of matrices which solves the linearized problem exactly. It gives sufficient conditions for the stability of nonlinear systems that are always correct for small disturbances and may be exact or conservative for large deviations from equilibrium. The formal procedure admits to enough variation that a wide range of nonlinear problems can be treated. Examples from both continuous and discontinuous feedback systems are given to illustrate its use."
"A procedure for use in the design of a physically realizable fime-invariant linear system for optimum filtering of a nonstationary random process in the presence of nonstationary random noise is presented in this paper. First, a new criterion for system performance is defined. On the basis of this criterion, an integral equation for the optimum physically realizable weighting function is derived, and it is shown that in some cases an exact solution to this equation can be obtained through the use of double Fourier transforms. Then the use of a technique to obtain an approximation to the solution to the integral equation is discussed. This theoretical background is followed by an illustrative example in which the method is used to design the optimum physically realizable linear time-invariant filter for a Brownian-motion signal contaminated by Markovian noise. It is shown here that if the designer is constrained by the requirement that the system be a digital filter with finite memory, then an exact solution can be found. Application of the method in cases where the random processes are stationary is discussed next, and the suggested approach is illustrated in an example."
"This paper deals with a theory for optimal control systems designed to operate a plant of known characteristics. It is assumed that error-free measurement of the system input and the system behavior is permitted, but only limited changes in the system characteristics can be effected by the control variables at the designer's disposal. It is shown that within this limitation for a wide class of inputs and systems, and for a certain class of measures of the system performance, an optimal system behaves as a relay or switched system during the transient period, and as a continuous system during periods in which the input is produced identically. A procedure is described for determining the switching times during the transient period in terms of the permissible measurements. The result is the design of the optimal controller. Typically, its realization requires analog computation of the switching function and digital switching of the control variables. The design of a second-order regulator system, in which the control variable is the gain in the feedback path, is obtained. Marked improvement in the system performance is noted."
"This paper describes a self-adaptive sampled-data radar tracking loop. The adaptive tracking loop may be considered to be a low-pass filter with a variable bandwidth. The loop is designed to adapt rapidly to changes in the input signal by monitoring both the apparent error and the loop output. Results show a mean tracking accuracy 25 to 34 per cent higher than that of a comparable linear system at a receiver SNR of 10 db. In other terms, to attain the same accuracy the comparable linear system requires a SNR of 13 db. This improvement in performance is obtained with relatively little additional circuitry. In general, the degree of improvement obtained by adaptive tracking will depend on the compromises made in the design of the unadapted loop to track the most difficult type of target."
"Servomechanisms with friction in the output element are often observed to oscillate, even though the Bode diagram indicates stability. This paper investigates the conditions for this instability and the type of oscillation that can occur. It finds that an overdamped system with a lag equalizer is stable ifL<2 C/C-1, whereLis the lag ratio andC=static friction÷Coulomb friction; with a lag-lead equalizer it is stable if\\frac{L}{1+a/b}<\\frac{2C}{C-1}, wherea/bis the ratio of the two zeros of the network. For under-damped systems, the same analysis may be carried out, resulting in only slightly more complicated expressions. Experimental results that correlate with the theory are also included."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"PWM systems contain inherent nonlinearities which arise from their modulation scheme. Thus, for a legitimate study of stability, such systems must be treated as nonlinear sampled-data systems without initially resorting to linear approximations. For a nonlinear system whose dynamic behavior is described by a set of first-order difference equations, one of the theorems in the second method of Lyapunov gives, as a sufficient condition for asymptotic stability in the large, the existence in the whole space of a positive-definite Lyapunov's functionV, whose difference\\DeltaVis negative definite. Hence, by choosing a positive-definite quadratic form asV, the sufficient condition is reduced to the negative-definiteness in the whole space of\\DeltaV. Upon this basis, a systematic procedure of obtaining analytically a sufficient condition for asymptotic stability in the large is developed for various types of PWM systems; the condition is stated as the negativeness of all the eigenvalues of three matrices associated with the PWM system."
"An approximate analysis of the effects of quantization in a feedback system is made. The system input is a Gaussian random signal. The error autocorrelation as a function of the quantizer box size is the goal of the analysis. The approximation lies in the assumption that certain error joint distributions are Gaussian. In the limit as the quantizer box size approaches zero, these distributions do become Gaussian. On the basis of the approximation, a nonlinear integral equation relating the error autocorrelation to the system parameters is developed. An iteration procedure for successive approximations to the solution is outlined, and several examples are presented. Finally, experimental results obtained on a digital computer are shown."
"The general algebraic equations of root loci for realKare found in polar and Cartesian coordinates. A synthesis method is then suggested which leads to linear equations in the coefficients of the open-loop transfer function when closed-loop poles and their corresponding gains are specified. Equations are also found for the gain corresponding to a given point on the root locus. A superposition theorem is presented which shows how the root loci for two open-loop functions place constraints on the locus for their product. With a knowledge of the simple lower-order loci, this theorem can be used in sketching and constructing root loci."
"The self-optimization of a control system has been tried by means of a logic circuit. The device makes successive trials by giving values of a parameter to the system and, on the basis of the resulting successive observations of the mean-square error, finally finds the value of the parameter giving the minimum error. The device is also able to follow the change of the system conditions to keep the system optimum. The optimum value of damping ratio of a second-order system with LF Gaussian noise input is also discussed on the basis of the data obtained with the device."
"This paper is devoted to a discussion of the effect of parameter variations on the system response in sampled-data feedback systems. It is shown that in any single degree of freedom feedback configuration, the system response and especially its overshoot are inherently very sensitive to parameter variation. By means of a suitable transformation, the properties of the sensitivity function can be studied in terms of the usual continuous system frequency concepts, e.g., bandwidth and loop transmission shaping on the Bode plane. There is a basic limitation on the loop transmission bandwidth that can be obtained in any sampled-data feedback configuration. This limitation makes it impossible to secure the unlimited sensitivity reduction which is theoretically available in minimum phase continuous systems. It is shown how one must achieve a compromise between the values of the sampling period, the system response, and the sensitivity function. The design procedure is illustrated in detail with a numerical design problem in which there is substantial parameter variation."
"Previous work on the analysis and design of pulse-width-modulated control systems is reviewed, and the limitations of some of the earlier contributions are discussed. A mathematical development of an orderly and relatively simple method for the exact determination of the response of closed-loop pulse-width-modulated control systems to arbitrary input is then presented. Through the use of difference equations and the separation of linear and nonlinear terms, the output at the sampling instants is expressed as a function of the sampled error, andz-transform theory is then employed to obtain an exact solution for the error at the sampling instants. A technique for studying the stability and other performance characteristics of pulse-width-modulated feedback systems is next presented. The exact method of analysis developed earlier and a modified describing-function technique are utilized together to investigate stability without overlooking pulse-width saturation. Three illustrative examples are also presented to demonstrate the relative simplicity of the methods described in the paper as well as the accuracy of the results obtained by the use of these methods."
"Pulse-width-modulated sampled-data systems are described by nonlinear difference equations which do not lend themselves to an exact analytic treatment. This paper presents a graphical technique for the analysis of PWM sampled-data systems with first-order plants. This technique provides a sufficient condition for asymptotic stability in the large, a method for examining the damping properties of the system, a method for computing the step response from any initial condition and, finally, a method for observing and interpreting the effect of varying the system parameters on the step response of the system."
"The hunt (self-oscillations) of a physical system may often be removed by the introduction of an appropriate stabilizing signal which changes the open loop gain in a nonlinear manner. More generally, the performance of nonlinear systems in many cases may be improved by the introduction of extra signals. The theory of signal stabilization developed here extends the earlier work by Oldenburger and Liu involving an equivalent gain concept. It is shown that with the aid of the Fourier series the designer can determine the periodic signal to be inserted at one point in a loop to yield a desired stabilizing input to a nonlinear element in the loop. The use of sinusoidal and triangular inputs to a limiter are compared. An example where a limiter is the only nonlinearity is employed to illustrate the theory. The approach developed here explains experimental results previously reported by Oldenburger."
"This paper presents an extension of the transform method to systems having parameters which vary with time. By using the general λ domain approach suggested by Zadeh for the analysis and synthesis of linear time-varying systems, a system functionH(\\lambda)independent of time may be defined for the linear system. Such a system function has many of the advantages of that obtained for stationary systems using the Laplace transformation. By makingH(\\lambda)a ratio of polynomials in the complex variable λ the pole-zero synthesis technique used for fixed systems may be applied to the time-varying case as well. Recently, a \"building block\" for the synthesis of a class of time-varying systems was suggested by Kilmer and Johnson. A similar building block for systems with exponentially varying coefficients is suggested in this paper."
"The poles and zeros of a compensator affect thes-plane gain and phase of the open-loop system at every point in thes-plane. These effects are studied for open-loop poles and zeros on the negative real axis, and a family of curves summarizes the results. A design technique is developed which permits compensation design to satisfy simultaneous specifications of root location and system gain. The method clearly defines the minimum number of compensator sections required and leads to a logical interpretation of relative needs for phase-lead and phase-lag compensators."
"One of the reasons for using feedback is the improvement in the rejection of disturbing signals. This improvement can be obtained through an analytical design utilizing as a performance index the integral square-error criterion. In the usual technique the sum of the command signal plus the disturbing signal transferred to the input of the system is used as the input signal. When this is done, one of the two compensating transfer functions (for the particular case of a system with two degrees of freedom) has to be fixed arbitrarily. Then the optimum over-all transfer function, which minimizes the integral of the square of the error between the desired output and the actual one, is calculated and thus the remaining compensator can be obtained. As the technique does not provide a method for determining one of the compensators, and the transferred disturbing signal is a function of this compensator, a required rejection of the disturbing signal may not be satisfied. The purpose of the present paper is to suggest an analytical technique for determining both of the two compensators which have the minimum bandwidth necessary to satisfy a desired over-all transfer function and a required rejection of a disturbing signal. In addition, the technique provides physically realizable compensating transmissions."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"1961 PGMTT National Symposium Digest. Copyright (c) 1961 by The Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc."
"Analytical and experimental studies were carried out to assess the value of various components and techniques in the frequency range from 100 to 300 kmc. The basic instrumentation consisted of adaptations of conventional rectangular waveguide devices, and signal power was provided by crystal harmonic generators driven with a few tens of milliwatts at a fundamental frequency of either 35 or 70 kmc. When silicon crystals are employed with video detection, output signal levels have a dynamic range of about 45 db above noise at 105, 140, and 210 kmc and somewhat less at 280 kmc. In an effort to obtain improvement, experiments are underway with gallium arsenide and other crystals."
"So far a major limitation to the development of millimeter, and sub-millimeter wavelength beam masers, has been the lack of a suitable high Q resonant structure of adequate dimensions for these wavelengths. This is necessary so that a sufficient number of state-selected molecules can be injected into the resonant structure, for the weak molecular stimulated power emission to exceed losses, and give maser oscillation or detectable amplification. Recent developments in Fabry-Perot interferometers, or resonators for millimeter research, appear very significant for such maser applications, and indicate the possibility of operating such devices at shorter wavelengths, utilizing rotational transitions in molecules such as HCN, and NH/sub 3/."
"A Faraday rotator has been developed which provides rotation independent of frequency in a band greater than 20% centered at 55 kmc. The loss characteristics plotted in Fig. 1 are typical for broadband variable attenuators incorporating this rotator. The minimum and maximum loss characteristics are for fixed fields of 0 and ~30 oe, respectively. Figure 2 contrasts the performance of a broadband isolator (solid curves) utilizing this rotator with a \"conventional\" Faraday rotation isolator (dashed curves). The broadband isolator has a forward to reverse loss ratio >30 over a band 10 times as great as that for the \"conventional\" rotator and from 3 to 5 times greater than any other isolator known, to the author, to operate at these frequencies."
"The transmission-phase properties of parametric amplifiers are tantamount to gain, bandwidth, excess noise temperature, and pump power in angular detection systems such as monopulse radars and interferometers. These angle detection systems employ antenna and hybrid junction labyrinths which derive even and odd spatial components of the antenna diffraction pattern. The labyrinth ports usually supply even, elevation odd, azimuth odd, and quadrupolar components. The source signal or target echo, differential amplitude and differential phase, between labyrinth ports contain spatial information of position, extent, and shape of the target. Consequently, to employ the potential of parametric devices in monopulse detection systems requires an understanding of the transmission phase properties of parametric devices. It is the purpose of this paper to delineate these properties."
"This paper is concerned with the analysis of a broadband traveling wave parametric amplifier in which the variable elements are connected in series with the signal line as opposed to one in which the elements are in shunt. In particular, the variable elements are taken to be variable in capacitance diodes."
"The traveling-wave parametric amplifier to be described in this paper consists of a TEM line-over-plane transmission line periodically shunted by eight varactor diodes to propagate the signal and idler frequencies and a wave guide paralleling this transmission line to propagate the pump frequency. The pump power is lightly coupled to each diode by means of probes, the sign of the coupling alternating from diode to diode. This effectively introduces an additional 180-degrees phase shift per section along the pump line, producing several interesting features of this simple configuration."
"The design and performance of degenerate parametric amplifiers is described as that in which large bandwidth is achieved through the use of multiple-resonators as suggested by Seidel and Herrmann. However, instead of setting frequency derivatives of the gain function equal to zero, filter-theory design procedures as developed by Matthaei were used. These design procedures have been verified by the authors with a single-diode degenerate amplifier operated with a directional coupler and in this paper the work has been extended to include the cases of balanced amplifiers and cascaded balanced amplifiers with contiguous pass bands."
"The up-converters discussed use a single variable-capacitance diode, a wideband impedance-matching filter at the input, a moderately wideband impedance-matching filter at the pump input, and a narrowband filter at the side-band output."
"This paper presents theoretical and experimental results on a type of limiting action occurring in parametric circuits. Let a signal at frequency omega be passed through a resonant tank at this frequency which is coupled by a non-linear element to a resonant tank at the half frequency omega/2. Above a certain threshold, the signal transmission through the omega tank will suddenly and sharply limit, in part because some of its energy goes into subharmonic omega/2 oscillations, in part because the input VSWR to the device increases. This limiting principle can be implemented with varactor diodes or other parametric elements; it also explains the operation of previously known ferrite types of limiters."
"An electromagnet was placed on a field displacement isolator in place of the permanent magnet. Variations of attenuation with field for a variety of conditions are shown in the accompanying figures. Figure 1 shows variations with frequency as a parameter and Fig. 2 with position as a parameter."
"Ferrite devices employing the field displacement principle or ferromagnetic resonance are difficult to build in the millimeter wavelength region because of the high magnetic fields usually required for biasing the ferrite. In conventional ferrites, the upper limit of the saturation magnetization, 4piM/sub s/, is about 6000 gauss. For resonance with the most favorable ferrite shape, namely, a thin slab magnetized in the direction of one of its longer dimensions, the Kittel relation for resonance becomes, f = gamma /spl radic H/sub A/(H/sub A/+ 4piM/sub S/)/. Here f is the frequency of operation, gamma is the gyromagnetic ratio of the electron, and H/sub A/ is the applied biasing field. Using a 6000 gauss ferrite, for resonance at 55 kmc, the required biasing field, H/sub A/, is about 17,000 oersteds. This field is obviously difficult to obtain in a device of convenient size."
"An X-band solid-state power limiter has been designed which completely protects receiver crystals from high power microwave pulses in the kilowatt region. This passive and reliable crystal protection has been achieved by utilizing the nonlinear properties of both ferrites and varactor diodes."
"In experiments on frequency doubling using ferrite slabs in a rectangular wave guide, planar ferrites consistently had much greater conversion efficiency than isotropic ferrites. The principle results are shown in Fig. 1. The geometry used is also shown in Fig. 1. The primary frequency was in the range of 8.5 to 9.1 kilomegacycles. The reference power level (0 db) was one watt peak power. The duty cycle was 10/sup -4/. The material properties are given in the appendix."
"Nonreciprocal ferrite devices - in particular, low-loss circulators - are increasingly difficult to realize at the lower microwave and UHF frequencies. Previous low-loss S-band and L-band circulators used a high-density magnesium manganese ferrite with aluminum substitution (General Ceramics R-6). Measurements show that the loss of R-6 in broad-band circulators increases rapidly when the operating frequency is decreased below 1100 Mc. Therefore, a new material is required for UHF application."
"This paper will describe a new type of ferrite switch that was invented by the author. Generally, a microwave ferrite switch has unstable characteristics because of the unstable characteristics with temperature of the ferrite material used. A stable ferrite switch can be made using two hybrids and two new wave guide elements with ferrites, and making the best of balancing characteristics obtained by combining the wave guides."
"The emission of spurious outputs from microwave tubes has been known for a long time. With steady increase in transmitter power level, receiver sensitivity and number of radiating equipment, the problem of spurious outputs has taken on greater significance in terms of radiation interference. As the power levels of high power tubes have increased so have the spurious output power levels, and in a microwave system the presence of the spurious power may have deleterious effects such as arcing in chokes, arcing at flanges and signal transmission through ionized duplexers. In addition, if large amounts of spurious power are generated, the microwave tube may suffer in its own performance by decreased efficiency and by introducing an objectionable amount of amplitude and phase instability of the fundamental frequency output."
"The trend toward increased power has brought the waveguide window problem into sharp focus. Window failures have impeded the development of high-power microwave tubes. Punctures and fractures of the dielectric materials are frequently preceded by excessive heating which cannot be ascribed to dissipative losses within the body of the dielectric element. There is evidence that the temperature rise in part is due to electronic discharge on the low-pressure side of the window."
"The most difficult problem facing the duplexer designer today is that of switching ever increasing powers while still maintaining short recovery time and low loss in the receiver circuit. A thorough knowledge of microwave circuits and gaseous discharge phenomena is essential."
"Recent developments have made available a number of different devices for low-noise microwave amplification. These include the maser, the solid-state and electron-beam parametric amplifier, and the traveling-wave tube. In some applications, the ultimate in noise figure offered by the solid-state maser is important and useful, so that it is the only choice. In many other applications, such as the background temperature being near room temperature or countermeasures or sources of interference determining the minimum detectable signal, all of the available devices are suitable from a noise standpoint and the choice of which device to use is made on the basis of other factors. Some of these factors are: gain, bandwidth, weight, size, reliability, stability, large-signal performance, phase characteristics, and power requirements."
"Challenged by recent significant noise reduction schemes in traveling-wave tubes and by the ultra low noise capabilities of masers, four years of continued effort on the part of the most capable engineering talent has advanced parametric amplifier technology to the point that today this device enjoys a favorite position as a building block in the retrofitting of present and in the planning of future systems."
"This paper will review the present status of solid state masers as low noise amplifiers. The maser is the most sensitive of existing amplifiers - in fact, its sensitivity is sufficiently close to the theoretical quantum limit that further improvements in sensitivity will be small. Present devices still fall short of the expected performance limit in other respects. In some applications, increased bandwidths are desired. Although fast recovery and freedom from saturation difficulties has been achieved this has still not been obtained simultaneously with large gain bandwidth products. Some remarks will be made with respect to improvements which may be anticipated in these characteristics."
"This instrumentation has been developed to make extensive microwave measurements on shock induced plasmas each of which exists for a small number of milliseconds. The over-all equipment can irradiate the plasma at two frequencies, one near 8 kmc, and the other near 60 kmc. The irradiation at 8 kmc propagates parallel to the glass shock tube axis, and the 60 kmc propagates perpendicular to the axis as shown in Fig, 1."
"By cladding a high index of refraction glass core of sufficiently small cross-section with another glass of lower refractive index, dielectric waveguides have been made with one or a few modes of propagation in the visible region of the spectrum."
"The electromagnetic properties of a rectangular dielectric slab enclosed in waveguide has been previously analyzed and reported."
"A cylindrical plasma column placed across a waveguide or situated in free space in such a fashion that the electric field of an incoming wave is perpendicular to the axis of the column displays a series of resonant responses constituting a reflection and absorption spectrum. The spectrum may be elicited and observed at a fixed microwave frequency by varying the current through the column on which the incoming wave impinges and noting the reflected power. The present paper discusses (1) the electromagnetic field associated with the assumed electronic motion for the principal member of the spectrum and (2) the effect of radiation damping on the Q for this member."
"A new type of microwave coupler, the plasma guide coupler, has been investigated. The coupling of microwave power via this plasma guide coupler can be varied electronically over a range greater than 30 db over an entire wavegide band. Pulsed power levels of more than 100 watts can be handled. When operated as a switch, a switching time of 5 µ sec has been observed. The plasma guide coupler is shown in Fig. 1."
"It is generally recognized that the output noise of a receiving system contains components contributed not only by the generator at the input of the receiving system but also by the receiver itself. Furthermore, the evaluation of the output signal-to-noise ratio of the system will depend not only on the output noise but also on the nature of the signal that is impressed on the input of the receiver and that appears in the output utilization circuit. Hence, any meaningful evaluation of noise performance of receivers when they are used in a particular system must include considerations, under operating conditions, of the sources that contribute to the output noise, the bandwidth and gain of the receiving system in all of its responses, the nature of the signal and the efficacy of the output utilization circuit. It is evident that no single number can describe completely how well a given receiver will perform in all kinds of systems."
"The 1961 PGMTT National Symposium features seven sessions at the Sheraton-Park Hotel (Sheraton Hall and Exhibit Hall) devoted to broad advances in microwave techniques, circuitry, measurements, and low-noise amplification. Twenty contributed papers make up four of these sessions, describing such topics as millimeter wave masers and quasi-optical surface waveguides, ferrites, parametric amplifiers, and plasmas. Seven ferrite papers are included in this group which describe X-band power limiters, new and improved microwave switches, absorption modulators and broadband isolators, octave-bandwidth cmc\"lators for UHF, and frequency doubling wlth planar ferrites."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Summary form only given. The conventional cavity-reactance amplifier uses a single variable-reactance diode that couples several tuned circuits together. There are many modes of operation of this type of amplifier, each of which has been analyzed in detail."
"Presents corrections to various equations and formulas as well as text from selected articles."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A hybrid junction has been developed using a symmetrical strip transmission line for application in the UHF range. It has a frequency band of +- 20 per cent where the input voltage standing-wave ratios at all ports are less than 1.26 (2 db), the power divisions are within 0.1 db, and the difference in power between the series input and parallel input ports is less than 0.3 db. The isolation is greater than 40 db and 24 db, respectively, for the two pairs of conjugate ports. These circuits are relatively small, light-weight, simple to build and reproduce, and are inexpensive. The approximate equivalent circuit of the configuration assuming transmission in the TEM mode is presented. The results of the analysis and the important features in the design and fabrication and a few modifications of the configuration are discussed."
"This paper describes some of the work on gallium-arsenide point-contact diodes which is currently in progress at the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Holmdel, N. J. Gallium arsenide, one of the Group III-V intermetallic compounds, possesses properties which tend to make it superior to either silicon or germanium for many high-frequency diode applications. By controlling the resistivity of the gallium arsenide and the point-contact processing techniques, diodes have been fabricated specifically for use as millimeter wave first detectors, high-speed switches, and reactive elements for microwave parametric oscillators and amplifiers. The operating characteristics of several different types of gallium-arsenide reactive diodes are discussed and mention is made of simple design formulas which may be used to tentatively evaluate the performance to be expected from such diodes. Noise figure measurements are included in a resume covering some of the experimental results that have been obtained using gallium-arsenide point-contact diodes as variable reactance elements in microwave parametric amplifiers."
"This paper will describe the electrical characterization of microwave variable capacitance diodes. The importance of some of the diode parameters is discussed from the application point of view, and suitable measurement techniques for these parameters are described, together with actual measurement data on some diodes. First, a general four-terminal transformation method is used, and some approximations lead to a fairly easy and accurate method of studying device characteristics. A resonant-cavity method is also considered, and it is explained under what condition it leads to a very simple test of the diode Q. Finally, a method is presented which is based upon modifications of the Weissfloch canonical network. These simplifications can be used to get an easy interpretation of the junction impedance or the diode Q."
"W. H. Eggiman, author of \"Scattering of a Plane Wave on a Ferrite Cylinder and Normal Incidence,\" which appeared on pp. 441-445 of the July, 1960, issue of these Transactions, has brought the following to the attention of the Editor."
"Single-diode parametric amplifiers or up-converters using multiple-resonator filters as coupling networks can be made to have considerably larger bandwidths than corresponding amplifiers having single-resonator coupling circuits. Data are presented from which the coupling-filter bandwidths required for given coupling network complexity, diode parameters, and required gain can be determined for both parametric amplifiers and up-converters. In the cases of nondegenerate parametric amplifiers and up-converters, the fact that the diode must be brought to resonance at more than one frequency has an added limiting effect on bandwidth. Some trial amplifier designs are shown, and important considerations in the synthesis of the coupling filters are noted. It is seen that for the case upper-sideband up-converters, if a filter having n resonators is used in both the input and upper-sideband circuits, then the over-all response can be made to correspond to that of a filter with 2n resonators. The gain characteristics of the trial amplifier designs as determined with a digital computer are included. Computed responses ranging in bandwidth from 9 to 27 per cent are obtained for multi-resonator designs having C/sub 1// C/sub 0/ = 0.25."
"G. R. Valenzuela, author of \"Impedances of an Elliptic Waveguide (For the /sub e/H/sub 1/ Mode),\" which appeared on pp. 431-435 of the July, 1960, issue of these Transactions, has brought the following to the attention of the Editor."
"This paper summarizes a cooperative effort to develop silicon mesa variable-capacitance diodes and to evaluate their potential for achieving low-noise amplification in the high microwave frequency range. Cutoff frequencies of about 70 kMc at zero-bias voltage (corresponding to 140 kMc at maximum reverse bias voltage) with a total permissible voltage swing in excess of 5 volts have been obtained. A versatile degenerate X-band parametric amplifier was developed which, when used in conjunction with these silicon mesa diodes, achieved a radiometer noise temperature of 130°K at 8.5 kMc with a 50-Mc bandwidth at 17-db gain. The measured performance of the diode (figure of merit) is compared with the first-order theory in an operating radar system. The over-all performance of the amplifier improved the observed system sensitivity by 6 db."
"A theoretical analysis of a four-frequency parametric-diode up-converter is presented, retaining both sum and difference frequencies generated by mixing of pump and signal. Upper and lower sideband up-converters are compared, and it is shown that the gain limitations of the former can be overcome by combination with the latter, without appreciable loss of stability. Three different parametric amplifier configurations utilizing this four-frequency mode of operation have been designed, fabricated, and tested. These designs utilize sum-frequency up-conversion from 400 to 9400 Mc., and have exhibited noise figures below 1.5 db, gain in excess of 12 db, and bandwidths greater than 8 Mc."
"Materials with an easy plane of magnetization (planar anisotropy) have recently been discovered. The large anisotropy field that tends to keep the magnetization in the easy plane reduces the field required to cause ferromagnetic resonance, which makes the material promising for microwave applications. Equations are derived for the susceptibility, taking into account losses and a finite medium. Propagation in a longitudinal and transverse static field is considered. The location of a slab in a rectangular waveguide for minimum loss in the forward direction, and the use of the material as a phase shifter, are discussed. Experimental microwave data on some materials are given, and also data on an isolator and phase shifter incorporating these materials."
"A parallel-plate transmission line loaded with capacitors or high dielectric constant material along a narrow strip has a circularly polarized RF magnetic field everywhere external to the loading over a very broad band. The magnetic resonance line of a narrow linewidth ferrite was inhomogeneously broadened by a very inhomogeneous magnetic field to provide resonance absorption over a wide frequency range. A prototype structure has given better than 15 db per inch attenuation in the reverse direction over a bandwidth from 1.5 kMc to 6.0 kMc. The forward loss caused by the ferrite is about 0.2 db to 0.4 db over this range of operation."
"Methods using harmonic spin coupling for operating solid-state masers with signal frequencies higher than the pump frequency are discussed. Expressions for the population inversion ratios are presented, and the maximum signal-to-pump-frequency ratios are calculated. Experimental data is presented on a ruby maser which is operated using the symmetrical method. Amplification was obtained at signal frequencies from 10,320 to 10,740 Mc, using pump frequencies ranging from 9580 to 9670 Mc. An experiment in which maser operation is obtained simultaneously at two frequencies is described."
"The generation of harmonics with reasonable efficiencies has been made possible by the application of high Q nonlinear reactance diodes. An approximate solution for the conversion loss of harmonic generators utilizing these devices has been obtained and design curves relating conversion loss with harmonic number, diode Q, and voltage-capacitance coefficient are presented. Harmonic generators have been operated with silicon and gallium-arsenide mesa diodes in the UHF region and conversion losses approaching the theoretical value have been obtained. Three harmonic generation stages in miniature modular packages were cascaded to obtained 7-mw output at S band. These stages were driven by a transistorized crystal-controlled oscillator and power amplifier which supplied 200 mw at 140 Mc from 1.3-w dc."
"The propagation of electromagnetic waves in a plasma in a magnetic field as given by the Appleton-Hartree theory is discussed in terms of the wave normal surfaces instead of the more conventional propagation vector plots, and the \"ordinary\" and \"extraordinary\" waves are defined in terms of their polarizations instead of using a continuity argument. This gives a different picture of \"a wave\" which has some advantages. In particular, \"whistlers\" become obvious, as are regions of high reflection and high absorption. The Appleton-Hartree theory is then extended to include the effect of electron temperature, and this results in a third wave whose velocity is of the order of electron thermal motions."
"Plasmas in solids show a more complex behavior than in gases since they reflect the symmetry properties of crystals. Since the carrier concentration has a wide range in semiconductors and metals, the plasma phenomena can be studied from microwaves to the ultraviolet. The effect of magnetic fields on the electromagnetic properties of plasmas has been experimentally investigated at microwave and infrared frequencies and has been utilized to measure dielectric constant and band structure of such solids in the limit of low magnetic fields. The magneto-plasma exhibits effects analogous to the galvanomagnetic phenomena. However, near resonance in the classical limit, they show up as depolarizing effects in semiconductors and also give rise to a new type of cyclotron resonance under anomalous skin conditions in metals."
"Considerations are put forth concerning the feasibility of observing the coherent excitation of plasma oscillations in a two-component plasma of electrons and holes in semiconductors or semimetals. By coherent excitation k meant the onset of a high-frequency (\"two-stream\") instability arising from an appreciable drift of electrons vs holes under the action of an applied electric field. Conditions favorable to coherent excitation include a sizeable difference in electron and hole masses, and long relaxation times for both kinds of particles. The extent to which such conditions are present in InSb is discussed."
"A method is described for generating pulsed RF energy in the millimeter-wave spectrum. Low-loss garnets are used in the uniform precessional mode to store energy at S band and radiate at a higher frequency, which is controlled by the total magnetic field. Details are given of a K-band generator which operates at frequencies up to 32 kMc."
"Experimental results obtained with backward traveling-wave parametric amplifiers indicate that their tuning range is greater than that predicted when TEM propagation is assumed. An analytical and graphical examination of the possible tuning range when non-TEM transmission lines are considered is given below. This examination shows how the tuning range may be optimized, and indicates what the maximum range would be using realizable transmission lines."
"In the usual method of measuring the tensor permeability of ferrites at microwave frequencies, a small sample of the material is placed in a suitable cavity, and the change in resonant frequency and Q of the cavity, caused by the presence of the ferrite, are measured. The measured quantities are related to the quantities of interest-real and imaginary parts of permeability-by equations derived through perturbation theory."
"When relatively high positive reactance is required for coaxial line circuits, the cutoff variable reactor can economize space. In Fig. 1, a schematic diagram of the cutoff variable reactor is shown. For z<0, there is the coaxial line; and for z>0, there is the cylindrical waveguide operated in cutoff region with the variable shorting plunger shorting the waveguide at the distance s. For simplicity, it is assumed that there is TEM mode alone on the coaxial line and TM/sub 01/ mode alone in the waveguide."
"Cavity masers which have been reported in the literature have utilized a dual-mode cavity resonant at the pump and signal fre-quencies, but Strandberg, et al., has reported an X-band cavity maser which can be operated with the cavity resonant only at the signal frequency. Siegmann has also reported a multiplicity of resonances in his cavity maser for the pump signal which might possibly be caused by some sort of dielectric loading effect."
"In a recent note the induced electric and magnetic dipole moments P and M due to the diffraction of a plane wave on a small circular disk were given. The expression for the electric dipole moment holds, however, only if the electric field vector is parallel to the plane of incidence."
"The purpose of this note is to reconcile the various definitions of nonlinear or equivalent time-varying capacitance which appear in the literature concerned with parametric devices. The problem considered is one of a nonlinear reactive element, let us say a capacitance, which is pumped by strong pump source at frequency f/sub p/ and which couples two circuit modes at frequencies f/sub s and f/sub i/, usually called the signal and idling frequencies. For parametric operation we demand either f/sub p/=f/sub l/ + f/sub s/ or f/sub p/ = f/sub l - f/sub s/."
"Sufficient literature has already been presented to establish the fact that tunnel diodes appear to have a bright future as relatively low noise, low power consumption, amplifying devices."
"In a previous correspondence, Somlo sought to rectify a misstatement in an article by Hudson, by showing a Smith Chart method of matching impedances. The method entailed finding the correct line length of the right characteristic impedance that would match two arbitrary impedances."
"When the walls of a cavity resonator are altered from a simple geometrical configuration by a small amount, the effect on the resonance frequencies can be determined by applying perturbation methods involving the use of plausible trial fields."
"Members of the PGMTT San Diego Chapter appeared before the PGMTT Administrative Committee at Palo Alto, Calif., in January, 1959, to present a plan for holding the 1960 National Meeting in San Diego. The plan, which was accepted, emphasized holding the Symposium in a noncommercial, semi-isolated location where a technical atmosphere with a minimum of outside distractions could be obtained."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the theory of artificial dielectrics and aperture coupling in rectangular waveguides, a knowledge of the dynamic interaction fields is required in order to evaluate the polarizing fields. This paper presents suitable methods for evaluating the dynamic interaction fields in a two-dimensional lattice. Both electric and magnetic dipoles are considered. The results are presented in closed form apart from correction terms involving rapidly converging series. Cross-polarization interaction constants are also evaluated."
"The even and odd mode TEM impedances and crosscoupling coefficient were found for two small circular center conductors in a double ridge waveguide structure. Expressions were found by the use of a variational approximation for the case where the centers of the circular conductors lie on the horizontal center line of the guide; the conductors were placed symmetrically about the vertical plane of symmetry of the guide, and the conductors were placed a reasonable distance from the guide and from the region between the ridges. Results calculated from these expressions agree reasonably well with experimental data. The experimental and theoretical results tend to indicate that proper placement of the two conductors in a double ridge guide could be used as a method of transmitting three different messages inside a single closed waveguide."
"The design of a coaxial hybrid junction is discussed. The hybrid consists of a shunt junction and a series junction. The shunt junction is a broad-band stub compensated tee, and the series junction is basically a balun of the type used to excite a slotted dipole. There is inherent isolation between the shunt and series terminals. The useful bandwidth of the hybrid is at least 10 per cent, while the bandwidth of the shunt junction alone exceeds this by a factor of four. Design data are presented for frequency bands centered at 425 Mc and 220 Mc. Many of these hybrids have been manufactured for application, and the performance repeats very well. Performance data are given for VSWR, isolation, and peak power capacity."
"The properties of step-twist-junction discontinuities in rectangular waveguide are considered. Methods are presented whereby these step-twist-junctions may be used in filter design and, in particular, in the design of variable bandwidth constant-resonant frequency filters."
"Further considerations on the mm-wave Fabry-Perot interferometer are presented. Computed Q values for parallel metal plate resonators indicate that at spacings around 2.5 cm, values ranging from 60,000 at 3 mm, to 300,000 at 0.1 mm wavelengths are possible. The plates must, however, be quite flat. These results are important for many investigations, and in particular for mm and sub-mm wave maser research. For the aperture per wavelength ratios possible here, diffraction effects should be small. Consideration is given to using curved reflectors or focused radiation in applications where the fields must be concentrated. For this purpose, re-entrant conical spherical resonators are treated in detail, as regards operation in the TEM mode at high orders of interference. Expressions for the Q and shunt impedance are given, and high values are possible at mm and sub-mm wavelengths. Quasi-optical methods of coupling into and out of such a resonator are proposed, and the higher modes possible in such a resonator are considered. Results indicate that it could have application to the mm-wave generation problem, and that it represents a good resonant cavity for solid state research at mm and sub-mm wavelengths, and for maser applications in particular."
"The principle of operation and the fundamentals of realization of a recording microwave spectrograph designed for use in the study of the absorption and the index of refraction of gases under medium pressures (1 mm Hg to 1 atm) are presented. The apparatus results from a similar spectrograph with synchroscope, in which the responses of the cavity resonators are interpreted by means of a pulse method. The high performances of the apparatus render its use advantageous, not only as a spectrograph, but also as an accurate recording refractometer, as well as a direct-reading Q-meter."
"This paper is a study of the properties of a diode parametric frequency converter (negative-conductance type) when used to perform microwave limiting. Unlike the parametric amplifier, the output power of a converter cannot exceed a certain level, regardless of the amplitude of the input signal. Thus, the ability to limit is a fundamental property of regenerative parametric frequency converters. An experimental limiter circuit, consisting of two stages of parametric frequency conversion, provided an output which was constant to within +- 1 db over a range of input of 50 db, and had 10db small-signal gain. The phase variation was less than seven degrees over the entire range of input power."
"A frequency translator is discussed which operates at C-band frequencies. The modulators in the frequency translator are crystal diodes, and modulation is obtained by periodic variation of the reflection characteristic of the crystal modulators. The conversion loss of the frequency translator is 6.5 db at 8-mw input power. The unwanted sidebands are at least 25 db below the translated signal."
"An approximate solution for the field structure and propagating modes in parallel plane, circular, and coaxial ferrite filled waveguide is presented. Bundles of plane waves are assumed to propagate in these structures which bounce back and forth along the guide. The solutions are classified into two types depending on the negative or positive equality of the incident and reflected waves. In the case of the circular guide the waves form a cone, and in the coaxial guide they form a frustum of a cone about the axis. The elemental plane waves are also assumed to satisfy Polder's relation and the boundary conditions at the guide walls. Simple relations are obtained with this equivalence for the propagation constant and the field. Comparison to rigorous theory is made in the case of the parallel plane and circular guide. Some experimental verification is presented for the completely filled coaxial waveguide."
"Some characteristics of flat-flange type joints are analyzed. Experimental evidence is given proving that it is possible to reproduce, in practice, waveguide joints which have identical complex-reflection coefficients. Such joints can be combined to form large joint systems by means of a synthesis method, which keeps the over-all reflection coefficient to a minimum. Both theory and experimental data are presented."
"A. channel-dropping filter in the millimeter region that transfers TE°/sub 01/ to TE/spl square//sub 10/ is described and analyzed. The important features are the use of TE/spl o deg//sub 011/ mode in the resonant cavities combined with a mode-selective coupling between circular symmetric and rectangular waveguides which make both heat loss and mode conversion low. Design formulas and experimental results on a model filter centered at 56 kMc are included. Finally, several possible mode transducers and filters based on the idea of mode-selective coupling are described."
"The coupled-mode theory is developed for two-dimensional M-type flow, and a system of five coupled-mode equations is obtained. A fifth degree secular equation is found for the perturbed propagation constants of the system. Under weak space-charge field conditions, both the forward-wave and backward-wave interactions may be described in terms of only two coupled modes. The two-mode theory is applied to the calculation of starting conditions for the M-BWO, and to the M-FWA. The conditions for beating-wave amplification are determined, and the variation of the mode amplitudes with distance is given."
"This paper tells how maximum bandwidth can be obtained from a nondegenerate parametric amplifier which utilizes a circulator. Expressions are derived for the gain bandwidth product and maximum possible gain bandwidth product. It is then shown how the Q of the cavities used for the signal and idler circuits may be kept at a minimum without degrading the noise performance of the amplifier. It is shown that best performance results when the TEM mode is used in coax, or, if waveguide is used, when the operating frequency is far away from the waveguide cutoff frequency. The diode used should have as high a self-resonant frequency as possible and the line admittance should be approximately the diode susceptance. Using a diode with a self-resonant frequency at the idler frequency will be seen to give optimum performance. This paper also discusses double tuning the signal circuit to achieve broader bandwidths. In this case, the addition of the second tuned circuit will be seen to give much broader bandwidths than one would expect from conventional filter theory. Two sample amplifiers are considered and their bandwidths calculated. The effect of double tuning one of the amplifiers is then considered."
"The intrinsic resonance linewidth of ferromagnetic materials is a key parameter in delineating the characteristics of these materials. Most of the published data concerning the resonance linewidth of ferrites and garnets are valid for small-signal conditions. However, Suhl's theory has indicated that the linewidth is dependent upon the RF peak power to which the material is subjected."
"In many problems involving the guiding and radiation of electromagnetic raves the solution for the field quantities at points in space is given in terms of integrals of the field quantities over their values on a closed surface. These integrals are often derived through the application of vector Green's theorems. The Green's function used in any particular application is usually determined by the special considerations of that problem, but it is convenient to use, as the Green's function, a solution of the vector wave equation which is singular at the point where the field is to be computed. In this article the concept is extended to iuclude media which are anisotropic and maybe inhomogeneous as well. Use is made of the generalized reciprocity relationships for anisotropic media. This involves the use of the media of a given problem termed \"original media\" and those characterized by transposed tensor parameters and termed \"transposed media.\""
"An N-way power divider is an (N+1) port network with N equal outputs."
"Microwave-radiation attenuation in a dissipative medium such as germanium in which the conductivity and microwave frequency conditions sigma<omega epsilon and omega tau<1 are present has been shown by Gibson to be attributed to the absorption constant relation: K = 1635sigma/n db/meter where tau is the carrier relaxation time, omega the microwave angular frequency, and epsilon the permittivity. In the above equation, sigma is the conductivity and n the index of refraction (4.05 in germanium)."
"Over the past few years, strip transmission line has shown itself capable of being utilized in a large number of microwave configurations which were previously constructed in coaxial line or waveguide. In many cases the components fabricated in strip transmission line are simpler to design and produce particularly where, as in the sandwich type of line, advantage may be taken of photo-etching techniques. This type of construction using copper-foil-clad dielectric material enables the foil to be used for both the center conductor and the ground planes."
"The purpose of this note is to present an alternate derivation of a formula for the synthesis of a loaded line. The problem is to determine the values of the normalized susceptances a and c mounted an exact quarter-wavelength apart along a uniform line. These are arranged in the order a, c, c,. . .c, a to achieve a loaded line with a given phase shift and perfect match. In order to analyze a particular line design for standing-wave ratio and phase shift over a band of frequencies on a digital computer, it is worthwhile to know the values of the susceptances to many more decimal places than one would achieve from a simple graph."
"Broad-band, matched, low power, instantaneous, passive, X--band diode limiting has been demonstrated. The limiter, which uses standard microwave components, is an outgrowth of point contact germanium diode microwave switch research. In fact, the hybrid-tee switch makes a very good narrow-band limiter under the condition of zero bias voltage on the crystals (biasing terminals short circuited). The output power under these conditions is limited to 0.5 mw² for incident power up to 30 mw, deduced from Fig. 9 of Garver, et al. However, the bandwidth of the hybrid-tee switch when used as a limiter is insufficient for many applications such as limiting the amplitude of a 0.2-µsec magnetron pulse or flattening a frequency-modulated klystron mode."
"There seems to exist in the literature considerable confusion about the various types of spiral antennas, their characteristics, and their bandwidth capabilities. One evidence of this confusion appeared in a paper by Bower and Wolfe, in which they state that the Archimedes spiral antenna can be specified in terms of angles and hence belongs in the class of \"frequency--independent antennas. \"Frequency--independent antennas are relatively new; in fact, until 1955 there was no evidence that a \"frequency-independent\" antenna did, indeed, exist. Therefore, it would appear appropriate to delineate the characteristics and the terminology of the antennas involved. Perhaps this brief report of some recent work at the University of Illinois Antenna Laboratory will aid in pointing up the differences in operation of the logarithmic (i.e., equiangular) and Archimedean spiral antennas."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Test data are presented on two aluminum-substituted yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) materials that have low-saturation magnetizations that permit the extension of ferrite devices well into the UHF/VHF region. In particular, one composition has a saturation magnetization of 300 gauss and a line width of 50 oersteds. Measurements are presented that compare the new materials with previously available higher-saturation magnetization materials. A broad-band UHF/L-band four-port circulator that operates over a 2-to-1 frequency band has been developed, using this 300 gauss material. Insertion loss is 1 db or less from 665 to 1320 Mc (with constant magnetic field) and 0.5 db or less from 800 to 1150 Mc. A compact and favorable circulator package design was obtained by using coaxial hybrids and dielectric-loaded strip transmission line. Data on the broad-band magic-tee used in the circulator are included. Isolator measurements down to 200 Mc are reported. Reverse-to-forward magnetic-loss ratios of 36 at 600 Mc and 12 at 300 Mc were obtained."
"The five-port matched pseudo-magic tee consists of an input waveguide, two load arm waveguides which are coupled into the input waveguide with +90° and -90° phase shifts, respectively, and an output waveguide which is split into two load waveguides by a septum. The improvements include a much broader matching and isolation bandwidth, higher isolation between arms, better matching into arms, and a variety of modifications for different applications. These characteristics have been obtained by employing frequency-insensitive phase shifters. Hence, frequency coverage is mainly limited by mechanical asymmetry and the characteristics of the directional coupler in the magic tee. While this type of hybrid junction is not a true magic tee because the load arms are not used as the input arm, it does have several applications which an ordinary magic tee does not have. X-, K-, and M-band models were examined experimentally, and highly sensitive and accurate impedance measurements were made."
"Loading a ferrite resonance isolator or differential phase shifter with a dielectric or biasing the ferrite with an inhomogeneous dc magnetic field are very useful ways of improving the performance of these ferrite devices. Whereas these methods are very commonly used in transverse-field ferrite devices, no extensive analytical treatment of the subject has appeared in the literature. It is the purpose of this paper to present a theoretical analysis of the problem, chiefly by means of combined boundary-value and perturbation-theory approach. It will be shown that dielectric-loading and tapered-field techniques increase the bandwidth of isolators and phase shifters, the isolation-to-insertion loss ratio of the former, and the phase shift of the latter."
"The theory of TEM diode switching is presented for purpose of understanding and designing TEM microwave diode switches. A few experimental results are reported for the purpose of supporting the theory and demonstrating the exceptional bandwidth possible. An analysis is given of the switching action of one and of two or more diodes as well as the biasing of the center conductor of a TEM transmission line over broad-frequency bandwidths without interacting the RF signal. The use of point-contact germanium, and gold-bonded germanium diodes for TEM switching is discussed. Some considerations of switching speed and maximum power-handling capacity are given. A coaxial transmission line switch has been constructed in which two gold-bonded diodes provide 26-db or greater isolation and insertion ranging from 1.6 db to less than 1 db from 40 Mc to 4000 Mc. The addition of a bias lead should increase the insertion loss 0.4 db or less over the 100-to-1 bandwidth, the maximum increase being at the upper and lower bounds."
"A method is described for measuring dielectric losses at microwave frequencies in materials with a large dielectric constant. By observing a dielectric resonance in a sufficiently large sample, the loss tangent of the material can be obtained. Results on SrTiO/sub 3/, single crystals at 20 kMc are presented."
"The existence of a particular type of leaky wave is verified experimentally. The leaky wave considered is that due to an electric line source above a dielectric slab. Since such a leaky wave cannot exist by itself, it must be detected in the presence of the remainder of the continuous spectrum and often in the presence of a surface wave (or waves). This was done by probing the fields and observing an interference pattern between the leaky wave and the existing surface wave, as predicted by the theory. These results emphasize a need to take leaky waves into account in the design of surface wave components and antennas."
"The design procedure for a broad-band glass-to-metal seal is described, and experimental-results are presented for a structure examined over the frequency range of 100 to 11,000 Mc. The seal described is capable of operating at bakeout temperatures as high as 450°C, with higher temperatures being attainable by the use of other materials."
"A new type of magnetically-tunable band-pass microwave filter that makes use of ferromagnetic resonance in single-crystal yttrium iron garnet is presented. The 3-db bandwidth can be adjusted from about 6 Mc to 100 Mc at X-band, and the center frequency can be tuned over a wide range of frequencies, by means of a varying dc field. A theoretical analysis of the operation and behavior of this type of filter is presented. Descriptions of single-resonator and two-resonator filters which can be tuned over the X-band frequency range are given and experimental data are presented showing their tuning range, insertion loss, and bandwidth."
"Recently, the special case of a linear double taper in rectangular Waveguide propagating the TE/sub 10/ mode in vacuum dielectric was examined. Approximate expressions for the reflection coefficient and voltage standing-wave ratio as functions of the taper dimensions and free space wave-length were derived and experimentally verified. This correspondence generalizes the equations to be applicable for wave-guides filled with dielectrics of arbitrary relative permittivity /sub K/. As a matter of convenience, equations are numbered to correspond with similar equations in the referenced paper."
"Carter and Flamrner have reported measurements at lower microwave frequencies of Q/sub u/, the unloaded Q of a single crystal YIG sphere treated as a resonator. In their paper a comparison of the measured and theoretical Q/sub u/, the latter computed on the basis of a constant relaxation time, yielded good agreement only in the 2-5 kMc range."
"The characteristic impedance Z/sub 0/ of rectangular coax has long been the subject of experimental and theoretical investigations. The problem is to obtain an expression for Z/sub 0/ which is both simple and precise to facilitate device design. The recent works of Chen and Cohn are summarized in Fig. 1 and compared with simple and precise calculations already known."
"This note describes a novel method of matching microstrip loads which gives good performance without critical adjustment and is particularly useful when the lossy material has to be chosen for mechanical reasons rather than optimum characteristic impedance. In the present instance, the method was applied to the design of clip-on sliding loads for measurement purposes and to highly stable calibrated attenuators in which a block of iron-dust loaded resin was used as the Iossy element."
"The available analytical design procedures are inadequate for the design of broad-band ridge-guide transducers of large transformation ratio. Various authors have discussed the problem of obtaining maximum bandwidth with multisection quarter-wave transformers, and recently Young has extended the treatment to include inhomogeneous transformers where frequency dispersion varies from section to section. There is, however, no exact theory for dealing with the discontinuity susceptances which appear in practice at the junctions between sections and become important when large transformations are being attempted. Further uncertainties arise when ridge guide is used, because there does not yet seem to be agreement on a means of calculating the characteristic impedance which is applicable over the whole range of ridge sizes."
"One of the major disadvantages of employing a ferrite circulator as a microwave switch is the holding current required to maintain the circulator in the switched position. One solution to this problem, reported by Levey and Silber, is the utilization of ferrite tubes as the differential phase shift element in a circulator. Switching is accomplished with a single pulse of current which reverses the magnetization in the closed ferrite tubes, and by virtue of the closed magnetic path, remains permanently magnetized in this new state. Using this technique, microsecond switching speeds have been obtained. This approach requires a ferrite that has both the requisite microwave and dc magnetic characteristics which all too often are unattainable in a commercially available material and necessitates the development of a special material."
"A new technique using a motor-driven polishing head intended primarily for the final stages of polishing yttrium-iron-garnet spheres has been developed. This method has produced several fractional oersted line-width crystals including a matched pair of 0.060-inch diameter spheres ground simultaneously."
"The problem of designing a circulator that is extremely small, durable, and lightweight immediately suggests the Y- or T-junction approach. For use with coaxial connectors, the strip transmission line Y-junction suggested by Auld and subsequently demonstrated by Milano, Davis and Saunders, has obvious advantages. A systematic approach to developing such a device calls for the symmetrical alteration of at least two physical characteristics of the junctional The obvious choice for one of these characteristics is the magnitude of the biasing magnetic field. The choice for the complementary characteristics can include any symmetrical change in the geometry of the junction (the adjustable ground plane of Fig. 1 is an example) and the symmetrical placing of isotropic and anisotropic material in the junction. The choice of this complementary characteristic most frequently mentioned in the literature is the diameter of the ferrite post. An alteration of the ferrite post height will also provide adjustment. The use of a metal pin along the axis of symmetry has also been suggested for this purpose. Thaxter and Heller have also reported on the use of a copper sleeve around the ferrite post for operation at 70 and 140 kMc."
"A rectangular waveguide reciprocal phase modulator, making use of a longitudinal magnetic control field, was reported by Reggia and Spencer in 1957. This X-band phase modulator consisted of a longitudinally magnetized ferrite rod centrally located inside a rectangular wavegrride excited in its fundamental TE/sub 01/ mode. The outstanding advantages of this type modulator are the large phase shifts per unit length obtainable, simple geometric configuration, the high figure of merit possible, and the small magnetic control fields required. These modulators have since been designed for use at frequencies ranging from 3000 Mc to 70,000 Mc."
"In 1957, Reggia and Spencer utilized a new technique to develop a phase shifter at 9.1 kMc. This letter reports an extension of their technique to K/sub a/-band frequencies. A maximum figure of merit of 1100 degrees of phase shift per db of loss has been achieved at 35 kMc +- 500 Mc."
"A passive microwave power limiter, using the nonlinear properties of ferromagnetic resonance in yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) has been evaluated at 4.2° K, 77° K, and 297° K. The limiter, of the DeGrasse type, consists of two decoupled, half-wavelength coaxial cavities as shown schematically in Fig. 1. Input and output coupling is made through the use of quarter-wavelength matching transformers. An optically polished sphere of single crystal YIG is placed in the position of maximum RF magnetic fields common to both cavities."
"The most common form of coaxial-to-stripline transition consists of a simple inline butt joint, as described by Barrett. A typical transition between a 50-ohm high-Q triplate and a standard N-type connector is shown in Fig. 1. This gives a VSWR<1.15 at frequencies up to 7000 Mc deteriorating to 1.25 at higher frequencies up to 11,000 Mc. While these results are acceptable for many types of stripline components and assemblies, it was felt that the design of a better transition would be necessary in order both to test and to maintain the performance of high grade components (e.g., hybrids, directional couplers, and filters) and to avoid the manufacture of a special stripline standing-wave detector."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This is a compendium of the principal advances in the microwave area for the calendar year 1960; only United States journals are included in this report which is not a catalog of all published papers, but rather, is intended to be a semicritical review of the major accomplishments in the field. The report is divided into four major sections which cover, respectively, tube sources, electromagnetic devices, solid-state devices, and measurements."
"An analytic method is given which allows the design engineer to assess rapidly the short pulse characteristics of any given tapered-transmission-line type of pulse transformer. The method allows inclusion of both skin-effect losses and losses which are independent of frequency. The effects of mismatching at either end are shown to be as important as the taper function of the line itself. The results of this approximate method are expressed as simple integrals and matching terms to which it is easy to attach physical significance. The method is applied to the analysis of two tapered-line pulse transformers which are geometrically uniform coaxial structures with tapered dielectric constants. The line whose nominal characteristic impedance is an exponential function of electrical position is shown to have a good rise time and tilt distortion characteristics."
"Practical design considerations are presented for a relatively simple four-channel wave guide branching system. The most important electrical characteristic of this system is an extremely low pass-band reflection coefficient (better than 1.5 per cent in 30-Mc band) which has only very small variations with the environmental conditions."
"This paper describes an experimental investigation of frequency memory in a recirculating amplifier storage device. The objective of the investigation was to determine what mechanism caused injected energy to shift to preferred storage frequencies. Using fast-acting crystal switches, the output energy was selectively viewed, and it was found that the energy in any circulation when viewed separately was of the input frequency. The spectrum photographs which are included in the paper show that the recirculating amplifier when operating with an open loop gain greater than unity does not oscillate at preferred frequencies."
"The dependence of available excess noise in type microwave crystal-diode rectifiers on applied microwave power was measured. This may be approximated by a power law with stants characteristic of the particular crystal. As a consequence of the dependence of both excess noise and dc rectified power on power level, there is a level which minimizes the ratio of these tities. Similarly, in the case of a modulated microwave carrier there is an input level which minimizes the ratio of excess noise to power, and so provides optimum detection of small modulation."
"This paper assesses the possible significance of the quantum nature of electromagnetic radiation in limiting the measurement accuracy attainable with a microwave radiometer. Analogies are shown to exist between the form of a formula describing fluctuations in the radiometer output, and both a formula describing the radiometer input signal, and also, a formula describing the output of a photocell detector. Detailed quantum mechanical consideration of the processes of amplification and detection are circumvented by considering how the formula for fluctuations in the radiometer output might be modfied so as to make it consistent with the measurement precision implied by these other formulas. A modified formula is suggested which includes a quantum fluctuation whose magnitude depends on signal power."
"It is shown that a considerable number of solutions of rectangular waveguide problems appearing in the literature are all special cases of a general treatment focused around the known solution of a singular integral equation. In terms of this a number of typical results are re-examined. The method is then applied to four new configurations, and the range of application and the limitations are examined."
"Properties of the V-line, a wedge-shaped surface-wave structure comprising a cylindrical dielectric binding medium of sectorial cross section supported by two conducting plates, are considered in terms of its higher-order hybrid modes of propagation. Practical modifications of the ideal structure are emphasized. Design curves and equations are presented to determine various propagation parameters and their significance is discussed. Experimental verification of the theory is described."
"A recent paper by Simon derives approximate results, employing only three space harmonics, for the propagation characteristics of an electromagnetic wave traveling in a medium possessing a progressive sinusoidal disturbance. A rigorous result is presented here for this same problem, taking into account all of the space harmonics; also, a sufficiency condition for the convergence of this solution is discussed. This sufficiency condition is not satisfied in a particular case treated by Simon. It is shown that his analysis of this case is in error, and that the total field is singular there. The singular nature of the field is associated with \"supersonic\" effects in the medium containing the progressive disturbance."
"This paper describes a new technique for obtaining a broad-band absorption modulator for high-speed switching or amplitude modulation of microwave power. This ferrite modulator, an outgrowth of the longitudinal-field rectangular-waveguide phase shifter, has electrical characteristics particularly desirable in a microwave switch. These include a zero-field insertion loss of approximately 0.5 db in the ON state, an isolation of greater than 60 db in the OFF state which is nearly independent of the magnetic control field in this state, and a nearly matched input impedance for all values of applied field. These electrical characteristics are nearly constant over a 30 per cent bandwidth at X band. Also, it is possible to design the amplitude modulator to have negligible phase shift at the desired operating frequency. Other characteristics of this ferrite modulator include small physical size, magnetic control fields of less than 50 oersteds, operating temperatures up to 150°C, and a capability of less than one µsec switching time."
"A theoretical CW average power rating, limitation imposed by a temperature rise resulting from power dissipation within the rectangular waveguide walls, can be determined by predicting the rise in temperature. Formulas for the evaluation of the CW average power rating have been developed and are presented here, and the power rating curves are given for the WR-2300 wave-guide (320 Mc) through the WR-19 waveguide (60 kMc). Localized hot spots, associated with a standing wave on a mismatched waveguide, require a derating factor. The axial flow of heat from these high current spots has been considered in calculating and plotting this derating factor."
"Recent interest in E-type traveling-wave tubes, in which a ribbon-shaped electron beam is caused to follow a circular path by balancing the centrifugal force of the particle against a steady radial electric tield force, has led to an investigation of wave propagation in azimuthally reentrant and nonreentrant coaxial-cylindrical slow-wave structures. The study is facilitated by the simplifying approximation that the actual azimuthally-periodic slow-wave circuit, situated along the inner conductor, can be replaced by a smooth dielectric cylinder. While such a dielectric cylinder would probably not be employed in the construction of an actual tube, because of its small value of surface impedance, it serves as a convenient model in determining the general forms of functional dependence for the field equations."
"A filter circuit comprising two ring networks which are connected by two quarter-wavelength lines is described. This circuit has one output with a relatively wide pass band and a second output with a sharp rejection band. A printed microstrip version designed for 1-Gc operation is shown in Fig. 1. Input is at terminal 1, band-pass output at terminal 3, and rejection band output at terminal 2."
"In many applications involving microwave tubes it is desirable to monitor the voltages and currents of the various tube elements. This is particularly true of experimental tubes. The situation may be illustrated by a high voltage pulsed traveling-wave tube in which the. collector and body are operated at or near ground level with the cathode at a negative potential. In order to observe current pulses at collector and body it is necessary to ground these points through a series resistor. Since the RF terminals of the device are generally fixed to the body, some form of dc isolation is required on the input and output transmission lines. If the ports are of waveguide construction, one method commonly employed is to place a thin teflon or polyethylene window between two cover flanges which are held together with nylon insulating screws. Tubes with coaxial connectors are usually adapted to waveguide and the above procedure is followed. The technique described below has been developed for obtaining dc isolation quite simply in coaxial cable."
"Presented in this note is a discussion of the advantages of using a pair of tunnel diodes arranged parallel to the signal and in series to the dc power supply. Large improvements are shown to exist in both dynamic range and large signal stability."
"The position of the ferrite strip in a field displacement type isolator is an important problem. If x and L are defined as the mounting position of the ferrite strip and the width of the rectangular waveguide, respectively, as shown in Fig. 1, then, according to Soohoo, Lax, Fox, et al., and Button, the optimum value of x ranges from 0.095L to 0.27L. The sign of the directivity (backward to forward ratio of attenuation) for very thin ferrite strip is the same if x<L/2."
"The design of loop couplers for various loop length has been reported by Lombardini, Schwartz and Kelly. This device is useful for many applications as the over-all length can be held to about 6 inches, whereas a com-parable multihole coupler must be on the order of several feet long. The loop-type device couples a TE/sub 10/ waveguide mode from a RG-69/U to a TEM mode in a 3/8-inch coaxial line. A comb-type coupler, for coupling a coaxial line to TE/sub I0/ waveguide, was reported by Lombardini and Schwartz. This device made use of a multiple-capacitive probe situated in a longitudinal slot in the top wall of the waveguide."
"When electromagnetic waves propagate in waveguides of nonsimple cross section, no exact solution can be obtained by the conventional method of solving the wave equation by separation of variables. In such cases approximations are available such as perturbation methods, variational methods, etc."
"Some interesting results have been obtained on a waveguide-hybrid phase shifter under development for use in an S-band radio-astronomy interferometer antenna."
"Since the first disclosure by Reggia and Spencer of the rectangular waveguide phase shifter, a number of investigators have presented qualitative analyses describing ob-served performances. In general, these authors agree on two phenomena that occur. First, upon application of a longitudinal magnetic field to the ferrite (phase-shifter geometry shown in Fig. 1), there is a \"trapping\" process whereby the RF field is increasingly concentrated in the ferrite acting as if it were a \"dielectric\" waveguide. Second, there is a mode-conversion process that takes place simultaneously (probably a circularly polarized wave in the ferrite rod) that gives rise to an electric-field component in the ferrite region orthogonal to the electric field in the empty waveguide (TE/sub 10/ mode)."
"The use of a lumped equivalent circuit for the transverse section of a waveguide has been used to determine the cutoff frequency of ridged guide. In essence, the transverse section of the guide is equated to an LC tank and the resonant frequency of the tank is determined by the usual formula. Sullivan and Parkes have extended this method to the analysis of a ridged guide partially loaded with dielectric. They account for the additional capacitance introduced by the dielectric and include this capacitance as part of the LC tank to be analyzed for the resonant frequency. While the simplified lumped-network equivalents are always desirable in analyzing microwave networks, we should be wary of overgeneralizing them. In the case of dielectric slab loading in a waveguide, the location of the added capacitance as well as its maguitude has an effect in determining the cutoff frequency. (This can also be said of the discontinuity capacitance at the edge of a ridge.) Note how a dielectric slab when centered in a rectangular waveguide will lower the cutoff frequency far more than when flush with the sidewall. This is not accounted for in the LC tank equivalent. The effect of each increment of capacitance due to each lamina of dielectric will be largely determined by the distance from the lamina to the short-circuit walls. Therefore, the author believes that the case of a partially dielectric-loaded guide can only be genuinely analyzed by the transverse resonance method or by some other method which accounts for the distributed parameters involved."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"There are a few extra copies of the \"Digest of Technical Papers\" of the 1961 National Symposium still available at $3.00 per copy. These Digests were a PGMTT Symposium \"first\" and were described as excellent by those who attended."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The fields covered by the review are: Electromagnetic theory as applicable to wave propagation, theory of wave-guides and components, microwaves in fundamental measurements (such as time and atomic constants), designs of components, measurements, solid state devices and a summary of utilization. Future trends are also indicated. The review (with some exceptions) does not cover the following fields: Antennas, propagation and microwave tubes. In reviewing technical publications, preference is given to such aspects of work which are novel, fundamental or are of controversial nature or are likely to influence future trends; where appropriate, criticism of the work is given."
"A method of obtaining a circularly-polaIized wave by use of two orthogonal dipoles driven in parallel by a common transmission line is shown. The lengths of the dipoles are so chosen that the real part of their input admittances are equal and the angle of the inpnt admittances differ by 90°. When these two conditions are met the resulting radiated wave in a normal direction will be circularly polarized. The method is applicable both to a circularly-polarized radiating antenna and to the problem of producing a circularly-polarized wave of the TE/sub 1/ mode in a round waveguide. For the first case, an analysis and a method of design are shown, and for the second case an experimentally developed example is given. The second case employs monopoles rather than dipoles for convenience in energizing from a coaxial line."
"Microwave high-power filters must be operated with internal air pressures of at least one atmosphere, or with a good vacuum. Pressures between these extremes result in reduced powerhandling ability. The breakdown processes for both high air pressure and vacuum are discussed, and it is made clear that any sharp corner on which the electric field would concentrate must be rounded if high-power operation is to be achieved. For good results in vacuum operation, the surfaces must be especially smooth and free of contamination, while in high-pressure operation, minor irregularities are less important. Various high-power filter configurations of importance are described, and the structural corners at which electric-field concentrations occur are pointed out. A number of simplified geometries are then shown that can represent the essential portions of the practical structures with sufficient accuracy for ordinary purposes. Formulas and graphs for these simplified geometries are presented that give the ratio of the maximum electric field strength on the boundary to a uniform reference field strength at a point sufficiently removed from the corner. In some cases, the boundary curve is an approximation to a circular arc, while in other cases a boundary shape is derived such that the electric field strength along the curve is constant. These constant-field-strength boundaries are optimum shapes from the standpoint of power-handling ability."
"The propagation characteristics of a rectangular waveguide loaded with uniformly spaced cylindrical posts (periodic structure) are investigated at a frequency of 2840 Mc. A qualitative discussion on the expected behavior of the effective guide wavelength of this type of periodic structure is presented, and it is shown that the presence of the posts reduces the guide wavelength of the waveguide. The guide wavelength is then measured as a function of post diameter, post depth, and post spacing; and curves enabling one to design periodic structures which have guide wavelengths in the region of the free space wavelength are presented."
"The characteristic equation describing the general modal spectrum for a rectangular guide partially fined with a slab of ferrite transversely magnetized and situated away from the side walls is derived. This equation is numerically solved for particular cases and for modes of zero and first order with respect to the dependence along the direction of the dc magnetic field. Some experiments to verify the theoretical results are presented and show good agreement with the theory."
"The problem of the diffraction of an arbitrary electromagnetic field by a circular perfectly-conducting disk has been solved by using a series representation in powers of k = 2 pi/lambda and the rectangular disk coordinates. The surface current density is given in terms of the field and its derivatives at the center of the disk. General expressions for the electric and magnetic-dipole moments, the farfield and the scattering coefficient for the case of a plane wave at arbitrary incidence are presented. The calculations agree with results published by other authors. A bibliography of the most recent publications on this problem is included."
"This paper describes, for what is believed to be the first time, the low-noise properties of backward tunnel diodes in microwave applications. The physics of the diodes are reviewed together with some of the characteristics and equivalent circuit parameters. The diodes are then considered as mixer diodes with IF in the audio range and also the standard 30-Mc IF. Another promising application considered is the use of the backward diodes in low-level detection. The results show that the noise figure at 13.5 kMc with a 1-kc IF is around 15 db better than any commercially available mixer diodes. Using 30-Mc IF, the noise figure of backward diode mixers is without special optimum design, comparable to the best mixer diodes on the market. Of great importance, especially in micro-miniaturization, is the fact that these diodes may be used with a very low local oscillator power (50 µw or less). The high nonlinearity of the I-V characteristic at the origin and the low 1/f noise properties of these diodes are also of benefit in crystal video receivers and other low-level detector applications."
"The up-converters discussed use a single diode, a wide-band impedance matching filter at their signal input, a moderately wide-band impedance matching filter at their pump input, and a narrow-band filter at their sideband output. With a narrow-band filter at the sideband output, the frequency which will be accepted by the amplifier can be controlled by varying the pump frequency. Analysis of the impedance matching problem involved shows that tuning ranges of the order of a half-octave to an octave are possible. Theory is presented for both the lower-sideband and upper-sideband types of tunable up-converters and for the design of the required impedance matching networks. It is shown that, because of the pump input bandwidth required, it will generally be necessary to accept some mismatch at the pump input. But, by use of a properly designed impedance matching filter, the reflection loss can be kept nearly constant across the pump band, and the incident pump power required is not unreasonable. It is seen that properly designed devices of this type using voltage-tunable pump oscillators should have wide tuning range, fast tuning capability a useful amount of gain, no image response, and a low noise figure."
"Theoretical formulas for the propagation phase constant of a two-dimensional strip medium are presented for general directions of propagation. In addition a number of experimental results are included that verify the validity of the theory. Some of the difficulties encountered in defining equivalent dielectric constants for this medium are also pointed out."
"By converting Maxwell's equations, the general case of mode conversion in tapered waveguides is treated by matrix formulation in terms of an infinite set of coupled differential equations with nonuniform coupling coefficients and varying phase constants. An \"orthogonalization\" or \"diagonalization\" process is introduced through a nonlinear matrix transformation which is a function of taper length. The general matrix solution of the problem is obtained through a perturbation method in the form of an integral equation of the Volterra type, and the integral equation is solved by an iteration method. In view of the difficulties in finding eigenvalues, the problem is then reduced to the two-mode case, and the mode conversion is obtained in an explicit form revealing certain information which characterizes the choice of \"mode-conversion distribution function.\" Optimization is first obtained through proper choice of the mode-converison distribution function. In an attempt to approximate a Tchebycheff mode-conversion response, further optimization is realized by creating \"new zeros\" and thereby changing the density of the distribution of zeros in the vicinity of the origin of the mode-conversion curve and the nature of the optimization procedure essentially becomes that of synthesis. Through using the optimized distribution function, a total reduction of about 50 per cent in taper length is realized (when compared with the cosine-squared distribution) for the case of 50-db prescribed-mode discrimination in a taper connecting a 7/8-in ID waveguide to a 2-in ID waveguide operating in the circular electric mode up to 75 kmc."
"A broad-band strip-line reflective ferrite switch has been described by Johnson and Wiltse, who also referred to the possibility of a similar switch in coaxial line. This note describes a coaxial on-off switch which will operate over the band 2500-4100 Mc; two such units can be combined to make a two-way switch. An isolation of 40 db was achieved, with a very low loss for the transmitting path, which, in both these devices, was obtained by magnetizing the ferrite well beyond the value for isolation."
"It is sometimes of interest to ask for the conditions of maximum power transfer from a fixed source into a load constrained to vary over an arbitrary contour in the impedance plane. There exists a simple graphical solution to this question as shown below. Consider the circuit shown in Fig. 1."
"Epprecht calculated the scattering matrix of two cascaded two-ports. Redheffer does the same for the 2n-port using non-standard notation. This note will comment on the physical interpretation of the constituents of the resultant-scattering matrix."
"The purpose of this note is to show how the signal flow graph technique illustrated by Hunton leads quite naturally to an expression for error due to mistermination when measuring insertion loss and phase."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The theory of passive parametric limiting with a varactor diode as the nonlinear element is developed and verified experimentally. The limiting is found to be flat and phase-distortionless. Expressions are given for threshold level, dynamic range, bandwidth, and power dissipation. The transient phenomena, comprising leading- and trailing-edge leakage spikes, are studied theoretically and experimentally, and found to be small in typical instances. Experimental results reported upon include a simple waveguide limiter structure at S band; a lumped-circuit limiter at 126 Mc; and a strip-line limiter using a pill varactor at S band. The latter has an insertion loss of 2.5 db below threshold, a threshold level of 2 mw, a dynamic range in excess of 20 db, and less than 5° of phase distortion. Agreement between theory and experimental results is excellent."
"An X-band solid-state power limiter has been designed and built to protect receiver crystals from high-power microwave pulses in the kilowatt region. This passive and reliable crystal protection has been achieved by utilizing the nonlinear properties of both ferrites and semiconductor diodes. An understanding of the ferrite nonlinear mechanism, which gives rise to the characteristically large leakage spike, has been achieved and quantitatively described. This formulation resulted in an essentially optimized high-power ferrite limiter, whose mode of operation is qualitatively understood. Use of this ferrite limiter for crystal protection requires a fast response, lower threshold secondary-limiting unit, which was developed by using semiconductor diodes for power limiting in a reactive mode of operation. The ferrite and diode limiters were combined in a single device with an over-all insertion loss of 2.0 db and a 200-Mc operating \"bandwidth.\""
"Excessive spurious outputs from high-power pulsed magnetrons, klystrons and traveling-wave tubes can cause intolerable interference and deleterious effects in a high-power microwave system. The harmonic output from a klystron may vary appreciably with changes in operating conditions. Harmonic outputs from tubes cannot be eliminated but their radiation can be significantly reduced by using filters. If the parasitic or spurious oscillations are very strong, adverse effects such as amplitude and phase instability of the fundamental frequency output may occur. Some of the spurious outputs may be reduced or eliminated by redesign of the tube or its modulator."
"The design of a two-resonator single-diode degenerate parametric amplifier is described, which incorporates features that give it nearly optimum wide-band performance. These features include the use of almost lumped circuit elements, a separate pump resonator which is very lightly coupled to the diode and pump circuits, and a diode resonated in series rather than in shunt, from which several advantages accrue. A bandwidth of 21 per cent with 15-db midband gain (double channel) is obtained at 1 Gc using two resonators, as compared with 8 per cent using one resonator. Both measured responses are found to be in excellent agreement with theoretical responses obtained with a digital computer. The measured double-channel noise figure was 1 db. Theoretical and experimental results are presented which show this type of amplifier to be remarkably insensitive to tuning errors. Good results were also obtained using two identical amplifiers in balanced operation with a 3-db coupler so as to eliminate the need for a circulator."
"The gain, bandwidth, and excess noise temperature properties of parametric amplifiers are generally known. However, a knowledge of their transmission-phase properties is also essential for the effective application of parametric amplifiers to angular detection systems, such as monopulse radars and interferometers. These angle detection systems derive even, odd, and quadrupolar spatial components of the antenna diffraction patterns. The differential amplitude and differential phase between these signal components contain the spatial information of position, extent, and shape of the target. Consequently, to employ parametric transducers in certain systems requires an understanding of the transmission phase properties which are delineated in this paper. The analysis follows the matrix representation of a nonlinear capacitive susceptance, four-frequency transducer wherein due note is taken of the phases. The transmission-phase relations are written which include the effects of nonzero port susceptance and nonlinear reactance element losses. At midband without losses, the relations reduce to easily remembered equations which are significant to the application of parametric transducers in phase-sensitive systems. Some applications and experimental results are cited."
"A new type of microwave coupler has been investigated in the X-band and S-band ranges. In this coupler, a gas discharge tube passes through two rectangular waveguides that are separated by some distance. A metal cylinder surrounds the discharge tube in the separation space. The coupling of microwave power via this plasma guide coupler can be varied electronically over a range greater than 30 db. Pulsed power levels of more than 100 w can be handled. When operated as a switch, a switching time of from 2 to 5 µsec has been observed. This paper describes some of the operating characteristics that have been observed, an approximate theory of operation, and measurements pertinent to a complete description of the coupler."
"The various circuit arrangements used in duplexers are analyzed in terms of their power-handling ability in two situations: first, where the bandwidth is narrow so that insertion loss determines maximum Q, and second, where large bandwidths are required and the maximum Q is determined by available Q band-width products. In both cases the ATR duplexer has an advantage. Arc loss was measured for folded cylinder TR tubes. At medium current densities the results agree well with experimental measurements in dc positive columns. At high current densities a constant conductivity is reached. Graphs of power-handling ability for a unity coupler duplexer using different methods of cooling are presented. It is shown that the requirements for easy firing and long life limit the achievable recovery time."
"Components and techniques for the generation, transmission, and detection of energy in the 100- to 300-Gc frequency region were investigated theoretically and experimentally. The design and construction of fundamental components, such as harmonic generators and detectors, were necessary since many items are not available commercially. A detailed theoretical analysis was performed for the propagation characteristics of single-conductor transmission lines, and attenuation calculations were made for several dielectric image lines. Experimental measurements were made at 105 and 140 Gc on these two types of surface waveguides. Attenuation of these lines is compared with that of dominant-mode rectangular waveguide. An analysis of phase-correcting Fresnel zone plates was carried out, and several zone plates were designed, constructed and successfully tested at frequencies of 140, 210, and 280 Gc. Zone plates were used at several frequencies to make relatively long path transmission measurements and were also used in a specially designed Michelson interferometer. The frequency stability of the source klystron and the dielectric properties of a number of plastic materials were determined by measurements made with the interferometer. A method of frequency filtering by focal isolation was demonstrated with this equipment."
"A longitudinally magnetized rod of ferrite has been used as a dielectric waveguide which provides Faraday rotation independent of frequency in the band from 50 to 60 kMc. This rotator has been incorporated into broad-band isolators with forward losses of 1 db and reverse losses greater than 30 db with return losses of approximately 20 db over the band. It has also been used in a variable attenuator with a minimum loss of 1 db and a maximum loss greater than 30 db which is essentially constant over the band. Advantages of this type of rotator at millimeter wavelengths include bandwidths in excess of 20 per cent, low field requirements (25-50 /spl oelig/), relatively large dimensions, the use of common ferrites, and the absence of conducting waveguide walls which permits rapid switching of the control field. The last feature has been utilized in an automatic power leveling system capable of removing variations of several kc frequency content from the swept output of a millimeter wave BWO."
"A substitution method of measuring the very small reflections due to a pair of precision coaxial connectors has been developed. The connectors under test are mounted on a section of precision air line which serves as the impedance reference standard. The electrical length of this line, including connectors, is a multiple of one-half wavelength at the frequency of measurement. A slotted line and a termination, both having the same type connectors as those under test, are required. With the aid of an auxiliary slide-screw tuner, the slotted line and the termination are matched to each other. The output of the slotted line is then plotted by a graphic level recorder having an expanded-scale presentation and a mechanical linkage between the chart drive and the probe on the slotted line. The section of air line fitted with the connectors under test is then placed between the slotted line and the termination, and a second curve is recorded. The slotted line and termination errors still cancel each other, and any errors due to variations in probe coupling along the line also cancel out. The difference between the initial curve and the second curve represents the mismatch of the connectors under test with respect to the precision air line. With a recorder having a scale expansion of 2 per cent full scale, VSWR's as low as 1.001 are easily discernible."
"A directional coupler in the form of a hybrid ring is described in this paper. A theoretical analysis using the scattering matrix has been carried out and experimental verification of the theoretical result has been achieved in a stripline network. Simple design equations which enable one to design a directional coupler with any degree of coupling have been derived. This coupler differs from the commonly used couplers in that the voltages at the output arms are either in-phase or opposite-phase with respect to each other. In addition, its geometrical symmetry makes it very convenient for use in symmetrical networks, particularly as a power divider in antenna feeding systems."
"A new strip-line configuration is presented, applicable to printed-circuit construction, that allows very close coupling to be achieved without resorting to very small coupling gaps and excessively critical dimensions. Graphs of even- and odd-mode fringing capacitances are given. These graphs can be used with simple formulas, which also are given, to determine the dimensions of the configuration that will give specified even- and odd-mode characteristic impedances or shunt capacitances. The usefulness of the graphs and formulas was demonstrated by using them to design 3-db backward-couplers. The performance of the couplers in this new configuration was typical of similar couplers made in more conventional configurations, as expected. However, the devices shown have an advantage in that they can be manufactured by relatively inexpensive and rapid printed-circuit methods and, since the region between the conductors is solid dielectric, they are unusually rugged."
"A technique based on cavity perturbation theory is described with which one can determine the microwave conductivity and dielectric permittivity of a small sphere of completely arbitrary conductivity. These properties follow from the measured frequency shift and quality change occurring when the sample is inserted into a region of maximum electric field in a cavity resonator. The range of validity of the quasi-static internal field approximation is discussed, and curves are provided for extending the measuring technique beyond this range. The extended theory is valid for the entire conductivity range from zero to infinity. Measurements on several samples of known conductivity and permittivity in which the approximation is not satisfied are seen to agree with the theory. For highly conductive materials, the present method is closely related to the \"eddy current loss\" measuring technique discussed by others. The two methods are compared from the point of view of perturbation theory in order to determine their relative merits. Because the measuring technique employs a spherical sample, it may be applied profitably to materials with nonisotropic carrier nobilities and to semiconducting materials for which contact fabrication techniques are poorly known."
"A method is presented for calculating the lowest cutoff wavelength of a new microwave transmission line, the \"lunar line,\" which is formed by two eccentric circular metal tubes connected with a metal bar or tangential to each other. The lunar-shaped cross section is approximated by introducing a series of steps in the outer guide wall and by dividing the cross section into m fan-shape regions. Thus, the problem is reduced to one of a multiple-step waveguide and can be solved by introducing the angular parameter alpha/sub i/ for the individual regions. The radial boundary conditions require a combination of Bessel functions of noninteger order for each region. The common boundaries between regions give m integral equations that represent the total power in one region transferred into the next region. The integral equations are solved approximately by solving only the first terms of an infinite series expansion of the tangential electric field at the common boundary. The solution of the m-stepped waveguide results in a system of 2m equations containing 2m unknowns: the cutoff wave number beta/sub c/, the order of the Bessel function p/sub i/, and the angular parameter alpha/sub i/. A successive approximation method is applied to obtain the cutoff wavelength. The calculated value is in close agreement with experimental results."
"It has been suggested that the incorporation of active solid-state devices into the elements of an antenna may lead to the simplification of the over-all microwave system and at the same time to a reduction in size, power and weight requirements. This paper will discuss several approaches to a study of the microwave properties of a slotted antenna element shunted by a tunnel diode biased into its negative-conductance region. The first approach involves calculation of the lumped parameter equivalent circuit of the slot amplifier system at resonance and can be extended to determination of the gain bandwidth and noise performance of the device, whereas the second approach is concerned with the admittance of the slot and the diode as a function of frequency over a wide frequency range. The latter method of analysis successfully predicts the conditions of oscillation and amplification at fundamental as well as higher frequency resonances and leads to a method for stabilization of the system. Preliminary experimental results indicate a transmission gain of 21.5 db at 2.7 kMc with a Hughes Number PC-3 GaAs tunnel diode in the slot amplifier."
"In order to compare the theoretically predicted and the experimentally observed behavior of frequency converters using Esaki diodes, it is necessary to evaluate various mixer parameters, in particular, the conductance elements of the conversion matrix. It is well known, these conductance elements are certain Fourier coefficients of the periodic series representing the incremental time-varying diode conductance. This conductance is produced by the large local oscillator (LO) voltage acting on the non-linear diode. Although one can determine these element values using a numerical Fourier analysis, this approach is both time-consuming and laborious. As an alternative, we suggest an experimental technique originally proposed by Dicke over ten years ago for use with conventional (positive-conductance) crystal mixer diodes. Since this method is quite easy to apply in that it only involves several low-frequency bridge measurements and one standing-wave measurement, and since, apparently, it is not well known, we shall risk repetition by describing a simplified version of it which we have modified to apply to Esaki diodes."
"Current phase-measurement methods for transmission-line circuits fall into two general categories. The first is the comparison method, where the path under measurement is compared with another calibrated, variable one. The phase shift through the variable path is adjusted to equal that of the unknown path, and this condition is shown by a null detector. Null indication by both phase and amplitude adjustment is usually required; however, null indication by phase adjustment alone can be effected. The second category of phase measurements includes those measurements which provide voltage or meter output indication of phase angle. This category includes direct high frequency phase-dectector circuits of limited frequency phase-dectector circuits of limited frequency range or frequency-conversion methods where analog or digital circuits measure phase at a converted lower frequency."
"A number of articles on the theory, design and application of three-port circulators may be found in the literature. Specific devices of this kind are commercially available for low signal power levels. In this letter a high-power version of a three-port or V-circulator k presented. The charcteristics measured at high power are compared with measurements performed at low power."
"Recently Wilkinson has described an N-way hybrid power divider which decouples the outputs."
"Two interesting points were noted while working with half-height cross guide couplers. The first was that if the same size coupling holes were used as in the full size waveguide, coupling was increased approximately 3 db. The second, and more important, was that the value of coupling was much more constant over a given frequency band, with essentially no change in directivity."
"The technique of using magnetized yttrium-iron-garnet slabs in dielectrically-loaded strip transmission Iine as the reciprocal elements in a UHF and low-microwave frequency, 4-port circulator has been demonstrated most effectively by Arams, et al. This communication reports the results of an independent and concurrent development program at our laboratory which led to a similar L-band circulator using a some what different configuration."
"A low-reflection transition between rectangular waveguide and circular guide can be made using a teflon transformer inserted into the circular guide. The transformer to be described was designed to mate a circular guide with WR"
"Recent literature has described the theoretical performance of unmatched power dividers."
"The excitation of surface waves on reactive surfaces is accompanied by loss of power which is radiated directly from the region of the feed. Since a surface wave supported by a surface wave line is a (nonhomogeneous) plane wave, it cannot be excited as the only field of a current distribution of finite size and amplitude."
"Because of its small physical size, the Y-junction circulator has been the recipient of a great amount of investigation. Various theorists and experimentalists have devoted time to understanding the behavior of this device, both on the far and near side of ferrimagnetic resonance."
"A design is proposed for a device which would enhance the properties of presently available microwave power Iirniters, thereby making their use as crystal protectors in duplexing units of microwave systems more desirable. This design is a combination of a power-sensitive, nonlinear element with a traveling-wave ring resonator."
"An L-band, reciprocal, coaxial, ferrite phase shifter with a low insertion loss, excellent high-power stability at peak power levels up to at least 300 kw, and a figure-of-merit in excess of 1000 has been developed. These characteristics were achieved by using longitudinal biasing fields considerably greater than the field required for resonance."
"It has been shown by Polder and others that a ferrite material can be made to exhibit an effective zero permeability to a wave that has a positive sense of circular polarization (positive wave) and a corresponding nonzero permeability to a wave with polarization in the negative sense (negative wave). Melchor, et al., and Duncan and Swern have demonstrated that a ferrite material which is magnetically biased such that the real part of its positive wave permeability is zero will largely exclude the positive wave. The negative wave, however, will be concentrated in the ferrite; and, under certain conditions of ferrite geometry and operating frequency, the negative wave will propagate through the ferrite in a dielectric mode."
"The conventional parametric amplifier consisting of a single variable element with its accompanying resonant circuits is inherently a narrow-band device. Analysis has also shown that such amplifiers when operating at high gain are extremely sensitive to pump power, i.e., small variations in pump power lead to large variations in gain. Traveling-wave parametric amplifiers, in which not one but many variable elements are involved, have been designed or built to overcome the two limitations mentioned above. This paper is concerned with the analysis of one such amplifier in which the variable elements are placed in series with the signal line as opposed to one in which the elements are placed in shunt. In particular, the variable elements are capacitance diodes."
"The 1961 PGMTT National Symposium was held on May 15, 16, and 17, 1961, at the Sheraton Park Hotel in Washington, D. C. Planning for this Symposium began more than a year before the meeting; the Symposium Committee was formed in March, 1960."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The technology of producing smaller electronic systems is going in the direction of creating function within single units. Achieving the ultimate in size reduction can come from experience in manufacturing commercial capacitors of porcelain-silver, fused laminants. This means of generating system in solids is described and examples of different three-dimensional structures are shown."
"An outline is presented of probable environments to be expected in shipping electronic equipment by the following: 1. Aircraft transport vehicles 2. Railroad 3. Trucks 4. Ships The environmental engineering data is based upon previous studies and military governing specifications. Orders of magnitude are given as yardsticks for shock design inputs in terms of G level shock pulses, pulse shapes, pulse durations, population of pulses and direction of pulses. Test procedures to simulate environment shocks are described. Accelerated life test philosophy is defined. Similarly, orders of magnitude are given for low frequency vibration inputs as terms of cumulative cycles, frequencies, G levels and amplitude levels. Test procedures are briefly discussed. Discussion is included regarding electronic equipment resistance to environmental transportation shock and vibration. References are cited for the performance of rigorous analyses for determination of natural frequency and transmissibility. Recommendations are made for qualitative evaluation of electronic equipment resistance in shipping environments. Transmissibility across suspension system during shock and vibration excitation is discussed. Incompatibility between shock and vibration isolation is discussed."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"This paper presents reasons for the importance of formal documented analytical calculations regarding tradeoff decisions in the design and evolution of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment. This paper offers several quantitative tradeoff factors which convert equipment design parameters to equivalent dollar penalties and values."
"Major problems encountered in the design of a micromodule digital computer (MICROPAC) for tactical operation within the Field Army are described and solutions presented. Such problems include module heat transfer, interconnection of modules and module assemblies and selection of module assembly size and configuration. The utilization of the circuitry booklet configuration for module mounting, interconnection and cooling is described. It is shown that reasonable air cooling will provide adequate heat transfer for several thousand modules dissipating an average of 120 milliwatts per module. The quantitative dependence of over-all circuitry packaging density upon connector pin per module requirements, type of booklet and harness wiring, booklet size and configuration, etc. is presented in analytical form. It is concluded that an over-all circuitry section (including connectors, backplane wiring, etc.) packaging density of 150,000 components per cubic foot is obtainable by the utilization of micromodules with an average packaging density of slightly less than 500,000 components per cubic foot. The extent to which the equipment designer and user will achieve their objectives by the application of micromodules to military digital equipment is discussed. It is indicated that more than 60,000 modules (each containing such logical elements as a flip-flop, two logic gates or equivalent) can be mounted, interconnected and adequately cooled within a volume occupied by a 6-foot rack. This dramatic reduction of volume (and weight) is accompanied by a corresponding decrease in the equipment support or overhead cost per module."
"This paper describes the mechanical and electrical design and operating characteristics of a high speed tabulating card reader. This unit, a prime input device to the Philco 2000 Computer System, handles, and reads and checks cards at a peak rate of 38 full size tabulating cards per second. Design problem solutions in the picking and stacking area which make novel use o wrap clutches to provide an indexing card pick and an incremental stacking sensor are described in detail. The characteristics of the photosensitive reading station are also discussed."
"A solderless wire wrapped electrical connection consists of tightly wrapping solid bare wire around a stationary terminal to produce a durable pressure connection. Properly made, the wrapped connection is a permanent, reliable electrical connection that can be produced faster than soldered connections. The elimination of solder and heat detriments are distinct advantages over the soldered connection. Wire wrapping lends itself to automation, and connections can be easily made on closely spaced terminals. While it is a mechanically strong connection, an individual connection is easily removed, simplifying modification and repair. However, this may be less of an advantage in multi-level wrapping. The increase in complexity of electronic equipment during the last decade has presented industry with some unique production problems. Not the least of these has been the great increase in the number of electrical connections. The need for speed in making this many connections, without decreasing quality, prompted IBM to expend considerable effort in identifying the variables that affect solderless wire wrapping connections in order to define the controls needed in production. At the present time, these connections are widely used by IBM in both commercial and military applications, and over 100 million solderless wrapped connections were made by IBM in 1960. The use of the solderless wrapped connection has grown steadily since the Bell System first made the new connection public in 1952. Extensive laboratory tests, performed principally byBell Laboratories, and field experience have verified the reliability of the connection. This paper describes the effect of the variables involved in the wire wrapping process which were determined from the results of laboratory tests and manufacturing experience and the process controls required to assure the quality and reliability of production connections. To meet process requirements consistently, the many variables inherent in the solderless wire wrapping process must be considered. These variables will be discussed under the major variable factors involved in the process."
"This paper describes the development and evaluation of a ceramic component board having all circuit connections electrically insulated but thermally grounded. Individual circuits are encapsulated in epoxy parallelopipeds having large diameter leads of nickel clad copper wire. The leads in turn are resistance welded to metallic (Kovar) studs which have been brazed into an inorganic (Beryllium Oxide Ceramic) wafer having exceedingly good thermal conductance. Interconnections between weld studs are accomplished by metalized plated runs. The component board assembly was then evaluated under simulated operating conditions, i.e., edge clamped to an infinite heat sink and in a vacuum environment. Internal heat rise within the circuit modules was monitored and compared to that found in another module which had not been welded to the board, and plots of the thermal gradients across the ceramic wafer were made."
"A system of packaging based on the Sperry \"Honeycomb\" concept is described which attempts to resolve the major problems associated with other current packaging schemes. The paper reviewsthe considerations of high density welded three-dimensional packaging and some advantages and disadvantages of the popular concepts. This method is particularly applicable to develop programs since it permits evaluationo the circuit prior to final encapsulation. The paper details a typical circuit package from its original circuit schematic through packaging layout, assembly, testing and final encapsulation. It also shows how the packaging method can be adapted to permit replacement of components if required."
"Summary--The evaluation of a completely solid state electronic multiplexer, with a capacity of 90 channels, is presented. Electrical operation iS described as well as mechanical fabrication. A comparison of two types of packaging techniques is made."
"The Design and Test Analysis of a space Structure is presented. A correlation coefficient, developed from experimental stress analysis and performed on a full scale model under partial loading in the laboratory was used to predict the performance of the structure under actual loading. The results from over 100 tests are shown and dis- cussed."
"Summary - The approach used in introducing electronic packaging utilizing printed wiring boards in the production design of the ATLAS MISSILE AUTOPILOT is described. An integrated system design approach from circuit schematic to finished product is demonstrated by explanation of design standards adopted and the use of eleven (11) specifications, Which covered materials, parts, processes and assembly techniques, as requirement documents on applicable part and assembly draftings. The role of the specialist as coordinator and integrator of cognizant departmental functions involved in the task is discussed. Printed wiring board parts are used as a specific example to show how Engineering, Purchasing, Processing, Assembly, Inspection, Testing and Quality Assurance tasks are related."
"Magnetic thin films have great potential as memory elements in digital computers. The properties of thin films are such that memories can be operated at speeds of the order of 100 nanoseconds or less, non-destructively in certain instances. While the elements themselves show great promise, there are many problems attendant to their use, the solution of which must dome from experts in packaging techniques."
"Value Engineering is coming of age° In the hands of experienced product engineers it can grow into a truly professional tool for improving the competitive position of a company. It applies the precise techniques of science and engineering to those areas of evaluation, programming, and decision-making which have heretofore been governed by intuition. In estimating, bidding, and scheduling, Value Engineering saves not only money but also elapsed time. In design, development and production, it seeks the best ratio between desirable qualities and their cost in available resources. This paper will illustrate how Value Engineering can be utilized within the conventional engineering disciplines to provide the quantitative data necessary for better balanced specifications, for reducing areas of uncertainty in product planning, and for better decisions in both product design and program management."
"Value-engineering is basic in all engineering that creates products with end-use objectives. It is the heritage given to us by all past and contemporary scientists and engineers. Every engineer who has created or improved a commercial product for a highly competitive market knows from experience what value-engineering means. It cannot be learned in two weeks. Value-engineering is a lifetime discipline in applied sciences to produce functional products with minimum expenditure of money and human resources."
"Summary-- This paper deals with early techniques of chrome diffusion and the more recent methods of chromizing of metals. Historical applications of the process as applied to certain glass sealing metals, its effect on the coefficient of thermal expansion and the interface between glass and metal, as well as proper seal geometry, are discussed. Precleaning, oxide formation, glass application, seal types, and postremoval of the oxide are explained."
"Summary - A new packaging concept for microelectronics and its application to a digital system are presented. The concept utilizes the new Dot components mounted in ceramic wafers. Dot components are disks 0.03-in thick with a diameter as small as 0.05-in. Connections to components are made by multi-layer deposition techniques; and connections to wafer modules, by a novel pressure connection method. A unique and compact heat transfer scheme is described. The design example contains 2260 of the smallest Dot components in an approximately 1. 25-in cube. The component density of the package (including all thermal, interconnection, and structural provisions) is 1,960,000 per cubic foot (1130 per cubic inch). The package provides excellent temperature control for the components and is sufficiently rugged to withstand space environments. A photograph of model hardware is shown."
"Summary - This paper describes a simple and novel form of analog-to-digital converter which is completely transistorized and does not require any stepping or counting devices or any null-sensing element. This converter can be used either to generate digital values or as a limit-value selector. Transistorized circuitry of the limit value selector has resulted in a simple, accurate, and practical approach to automatic testing and sorting machines. A specific application in a machine for testing and sorting transistors is described."
"Summary Recent developments in the construction of thermoelectric coolers have resulted in improved coolers suitable for use in electronic equipment. The continual effort to improve the techniques of cooling electronic equipment led to the investigation of thermoelectric spot cooling of temperature-limiting component parts located within local areas of an electronic equipment. The investigation consisted of the evaluation and application of nine spot coolers constructed to specifications determined by an analysis. Thermal evaluation of the nine spot coolers showed that each spot cooler either met or exceeded the design requirement of pumping 5 w over a 30°C temperature difference. The coefficient of performance exceeded 0.5 for each of the spot coolers operated under the design condition. In addition to the satisfactory thermal performance, a spot cooler passed the mechanical shock and vibration requirements for satellite equipments used in Project Mercury. The information on spot cooler thermal performance was employed in an analytical application of spot cooling to a free-convection and radiation-cooled equipment and a forced-convection-cooled equipment. The results indicate that free-convection - and radiationcooled equipment can be operated in higher temperature environments with spot cooling; moreover, the cooling requirements for forced-convection-cooled equipment can be reduced."
"Thermistors are components of comparatively recent development, although the phenomenon of conduction in metallic salts was recorded by Faraday over a century ago. The paper, in a broad survey of the subject, describes the theory of their operation, explains why they, in common with other semiconductor devices, possess a negative temperature coefficient of resistance and develops the expressions which govern their parameters. Methods of manufacture of the various forms of thermistor are outlined in general terms, and numerous applications of the device are described and discussed. Guidance is given on the approach to circuit problems, and the possibilities of exploiting some of the device's interesting and unusual properties are indicated. The point is made that the thermistor can now be used in many fields as an adequate alternative to components of more specialized application."
"An approach to the high-frequency representation is developed from the point of view of distributed-parameter networks. This viewpoint may be directly employed to compute insertion or transmission functions. Alternatively, it provides a method for determining the element values for lumped-parameter equivalent circuits. This method is most easily applied to transformers having two winding layers with turns ratios which are either very nearly unity or which depart very greatly from unity, and the paper largely confines itself to these cases. Distributed-parameter insertion-voltage ratios for a number of common two-winding transformer connections are presented and compared with experimental results."
"The causes of long-term failure under practical conditions of use or storage of different types of fixed resistors commonly used in electronic equipment have been investigated. Some reported life tests have proceeded without interruption for almost four years. Carbon-composition (grade 2) resistors under load fail by slow thermal degradation of the resistive material. Drift of value may also occur if unloaded resistors of this type are stored in a damp atmosphere. Vitreous-enamelled wire-wound resistors made with fine wire may fail during tropical exposure both unloaded and especially when lightly loaded with direct current. This is owing to electrochemical corrosion taking place at faults in the vitreous coating. High-stability cracked-carbon (grade 1) resistors may fail rapidly under light dc load by electrochemical action if moisture condensation occurs and the protective paint or varnish coating is inadequate. Tests for long-term resistor stability are critically discussed."
"The use of controlled superconducting devices in linear amplifier applications is discussed. Static characteristics are presented and the location of the cut-off regions is developed. Linear equivalent circuits are developed for the low-frequency case. Several amplifier circuits are discussed. The theoretical efficiencies of controlled-superconductor amplifiers are determined for various classes of operation."
"Motion of unipolar ions in insulating liquids creates strong coupling between electrical and hydrodynamic systems energy. This permits us to pump liquids directly with electrical power or to build up electrical energy from liquid motion. The phenomenon has been used to build high-impedance electrohydrodynamic components such as switches, relays, voltage regulators, voltage generators and dc transformers. Their principle of operation will be discussed, first-order approximation theories will be given, and a number of research models will be described."
"A survey of the techniques used in the preparation and evaluation of semiconductor materials is presented. The various processes for the preparation and growth of crystals are described, and an outline of their relative merits is given. Crystalgrowth records must be maintained to permit control of yield from subsequent manufacturing processes."
"This paper describes the fabrication of microminiaturized circuitry using sputtered metals. Experiments proved that it was possible, with special techniques, to use a photosensitive resist (Kodak Metal Etch Resist) as a masking medium for the deposition of circuit components with accurate dimensions. In this instance, a single metal (tantalum) was used to form the passive components. The high sheet resistivity of stable tantalum films permits the fabrication of small resistors, while two-dimensional capacitors can be formed from anodically oxidized tantalum films. This facilitates a unfied approach to microminiaturization."
"It is shown in this paper that by an appropriate cleaning and forming procedure titanium metal can be anodically oxidized to a low leakage current, which makes it possible to use this material for capacitor fabrication. Experimental data are given for the metal/oxide/metal thin-film capacitor. A new \"printing\" technique especially suited for the fabrication of film capacitors in printed microminiaturized electronic circuits is described for the forming of the dielectric oxide layer."
"Polycarbonates have interesting possibilities as materials for capacitor films. In mechanical and electrical properties, polycarbonates fall generally between polystyrene and Mylar, and possess an unusually low temperature coefficient of dielectric constant. They can be cast from solvent and can be metallized; hence, they are adaptable to lacquer film techniques. This paper reports a preliminary evaluation of polycarbonates as capacitor dielectrics. Further work needs to be done on optimizing composition, molecular weight, and chemical purities."
"A study of the oxidation of sputtered tantalum films was carried out to help explain the changes in electrical resistance of such films when heated in air at 100°C. A microbalance was used to obtain the oxidation data over a range of temperatures from 100-600°C in pure oxygen at a pressure of 7.6 cm of Hg. The electrical resistance of films was measured over a temperature range up to 200°C. Some results were also obtained when heating was carried out in a vacuum of 10--6mm of Hg. From a consideration of the oxidation data and the electrical resistance data, it appears that oxidative effects based on a simple model of oxide film formation do not play a major role in affecting the stability of the electrical resistance of the films under the test conditions. Oxidative effects at grain boundaries may have more of an influence. However, structural changes, not yet characterized, may be equally important in accounting for the resistance changes."
"The time rate of change of flux and the change in flux methods of characterizing magnetic switch cores are reviewed and related to a mathematical flux reversal model. The relationships of the two methods are developed and discussed. Finally, the unifying concepts of time average current and electric charge are shown to be important in relating core characteristics to actual circuit application."
"This paper describes a high-gain phase-sensitive magnetic amplifier which simultaneously possesses the high-gain property of the self-saturating (100 percent positive feedback) amplifiers and the limited circulating current property of the low-gain zero feedback amplifiers. These features are obtained by using feedback windings to obtain the self-saturating large-gain property. However, the feedback windings are arranged so that the feedback is positive only when load current flows and is zero when circulating currents flow. The circuit is analyzed and its various modes of operation are described. The theory is verified with numerous experimental results."
"Nuclear radiation induced transient changes in the electrical characteristics of electronic parts and materials obtained in recent experiments at the GODIVA II pulse reactor are described and discussed. The electronic parts investigated and monitored during exposure include: coaxial cables; resistors of various types and manufacture, ranging in value from 100 ohm to 1 megohm; sensistors; capacitors, ceramic and tantalum; rectifiers, silicon and selenium; and magnetic cores, ferrite. Most of the parts during exposure show transient parameter changes which exceed the tolerance values and then recover generally to the nominal value within two to five msec. This behavior is of serious concern in data and information processing equipment and in high-frequency and high-accuracy instrumentation which are exposed to such a nuclear environment, yet which must maintain their operational tolerance even for short periods of time."
"This paper describes a high-gain phase-sensitive magnetic amplifier which simultaneously possesses the high-gain property of the self-saturating (100 percent positive feedback) amplifiers and the limited circulating current property of the low-gain zero feedback amplifiers. These features are obtained by using feedback windings to obtain the self-saturating large-gain property. However, the feedback windings are arranged so that the feedback is positive only when load current flows and is zero when circulating currents flow. The circuit is analyzed and its various modes of operation are described. The theory is verified with numerous experimental results."
"In the VHF range, high-quality narrow-band filters with reasonable physical dimensions are extremely difficult to realize. Excessive pass-band insertion loss accompanies filters employing lumped constant elements, and unreasonable size is a natural consequence of coaxial-resonator filters. Harmonic crystal filters are inadequate because of the unpredictable amount of spurious modes above the harmonic frequency; and hence they can only be used for very low percentage bandwidths. A solution to the above problems is provided by the use of helical resonators for high-quality filters. This paper describes the helical resonator, measurement of its Q, and coupling to the resonator. A procedure for the design and construction of a filter using helical circuits is then presented. Finally an example is given illustrating the design method, and several photographs of helical-resonator filters are shown."
"This first part of a four part paper describes fifteen solid-state phenomena and physical effects. These phenomena are part of a group whose effects depend upon either the transport of electrons and holes or upon the band structure of the material."
"The change in resistance of wire and ribbon when wound respectively in a toroid or cylindrical shell has been calculated. Experimental data for wires confirming the theoretical calculations are presented."
"The effect of substrate surface roughness on the thermal stability of nichrome thin film resistors is presented. This investigation was confined primarily to glass- and alumina-type substrates. Electron microscope surface morphology examinations made of alumina substrates, obtained from different sources, revealed some differences in microstructure. No particular microdefect or combination of defects could be rigorously related to the thermal aging data for alumina. Comparative results between glass and alumina, where differences in roughness were quite pronounced, gave corresponding large differences in stability during thermal aging. Oxidation based on surface roughness is suggested as the mechanism to account for the increase in resistance obtained on the nichrome films supported on alumina during thermal aging."
"Certain metals adhere to ceramics when sintered. This adherence is important in incorporating ceramic components in electronic devices. But understanding of the adherence mechanism is limited. A study of adherence is described in this paper, and an explanation of the adherence of metal coatings to glassy high-alumina ceramics is presented."
"A comparison is drawn between the theoretical efficiencies of heat-engines and fuel-cells in the conversion of chemical to electrical energy. The electrochemical principles governing the operation of fuel-cells are discussed. Short descriptions, including performance curves, are given of a few selected fuel-cell types including low, intermediate, and high temperature cells, and redox and regenerative cells. An example is given of a rough calculation of battery and fuel weight and volume for a given power level and total energy demand."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Describes the special features, transmision capabilities, and communications capabilities of large antenna technologies and products on the market."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Describes the special features, transmision capabilities, and communications capabilities of large antenna technologies and products on the market."
"Basic principles of radio interferometry are expounded and a special diagram is established which helps with problems on interferometers, especially those with phase switching or other complications. The information on a record, or interferogram, made by scanning a compact source or target with an interferometer comprising an antenna with two well-spaced parts, is all in one complex number, the complex visibility of the interference fringes. Under appropriate conditions, the complex visibility observed is equal to the complex coherence of the field produced by the source between the points occupied by the two elements of the interferometer. (If the elements are not infinitesimal in extent, the complex visibility is equal, instead, to a weighted mean of the values of complex coherence between the pairs of points embraced by the elements.) Furthermore, this quantity gives the strength of one spatial Fourier component of the source distribution in amplitude and phase. To know all Fourier components would require the use of all spacings-two dimensions, this means all vector spacings. Measurements at a finite number of spacings yield the principal solution; if the source is finite in extent, only certain discrete spacings need be used. Spectral sensitivity of antennas depends on the complex autocorrelation function of the antenna aperture distribution. For interferometers, the spectral sensitivity is confined to islands in the spatial frequency plane whose shorelines may be delineated by a simple graphical procedure. The spectral sensitivity island diagram offers an alternative approach to interferometer problems. In an application of the diagram, it is explained how the resolving power of a Mills cross is not impaired by deleting half of one arm."
"A pencil beam interferometer has been constructed at Stanford, Calif., with multiple beams of 3.1 minutes of arc width to half power (0.8 microsteradian). It is composed of two equatorially-mounted, 16-element, Christiansen arrays of 3-m paraboloids, each 375 feet long (1255 wavelengths at a wavelength of 9.1 cm). The half power beamwidth of the fan beam of a single array is 2.3 minutes of arc. To form the pencil beam, the two arrays are switched together as in a Mills cross. Frequency range is from 2700 to 3350 Mc. Phase adjustment and monitoring are handled by a new technique of modulated, weakly reflecting gas-discharges maintained at the focus of the paraboloids. Television-type scanning yields maps of the sun (spectroheliograms) revealing fine details of the microwave source regions in the chromosphere and corona. All the transient bursts and a large fraction of the steady solar emission at 9.1 cm prove to originate in a small number of highly compact centers, whose brightness temperatures may exceed5 /times 10^{5}/degK. The sensitivity of the instrmnent also allows the thermal emission from the moon (250/degK) and a number of galactic and extragalactic sources to be studied with high angular resolution. Illumination of the moon by terrestrial radar can be detected. The pencil beam interferometer furnishes the finest beams currently available from pencil beam antennas of any type. Examination of the fundamentals of extracting high resolution details of a source from its radiation field indicates the fitness of pencil beam interferometers, incorporating steerable multielement arrays, for future development to higher resolving power. Adequate technique of phase preservation over wide spacings is available."
"Operations with a class of matrices called pattern matrices represent essentially every step in the numerical calculation of the patterns of linear arrays. These matrices are especially suitable for use with high speed computers. The inverses of pattern matrices always exist so that they can be used for purposes of array pattern synthesis via Lagrangian interpolation. Securing a good fit to the specified pattern would call for many radiators, thus requiring the inversion of a matrix of high order. Consequently, a class of uniform pattern matrices is defined whose inversion can be accomplished by inspection, which is sufficiently general to be useful for most practical problems of interest. Uniform pattern matrices generate the coefficients of the Fourier expansion of the specified pattern and can be used, therefore, to help minimize the integral of the square of the deviation of the synthesized and specified patterns as functions of the phase variable,\\psi."
"The effectiveF/Dratio for a parabolic-hyperbolic (Cassegrain) antenna system is shown under practical considerations to be only slightly larger than that of the parabola alone. Furthermore, when advantage is being taken of this increase in effectiveF/Dratio for the purpose of providing wider angle multiple beam antenna systems, it is shown that the size of the feed horn structure may become prohibitive."
"Recent experimental evidence of radio star scintillation indicates that multiple scattering effects are of importance in the ionosphere. It is therefore of interest to apply the transport equation for the expectation of the photon density function to this problem. The solution of the transport equation is used to predict the mean-squared scattering angle and corresponding size of the ionospheric irregularities as measured on the earth. The particular example discussed in detail is based on a Gallet model for turbulence in the underside of theFlayer under nighttime conditions. However, if should be noted that the general theoretical results can be applied to any other model as well."
"Design considerations and performance characteristics of The Ohio State University 360-foot radio telescope are discusssed. The telescope is well suited for precision position and intensity measurements at frequencies from 30 to 2000 Mc. The beamwidths expected at 2000 Mc are about 11 by 30 minutes of arc. Factors involved in determining the antenna temperature are considereal, and an estimate is made of the expected temperature."
"The University of Illinois radio telescope is a reflector in the shape of a parabolic cylinder whose aperture is400 feet \\times 600feet. A 425-foot-long phase-adjustable array of receiving antennas lies along the focal line and produces a pencil beam one-third degree in width, steerable in the meridian plane up to 30 degrees in either direction from the zenith. The array was designed by means of a novel procedure using both variable spacing and variable excitation to produce a prescribed beamwidth. The reflector is built of earth, utilizing a natural ravine. The purpose of the instrument is to compile a catalog of faint extragalactic radio sources."
"Staff members of the Cornell University Center for Radiophysics and Space Research have designed an ionospheric radar probe to be located near Arecibo, Puerto Rico. The radar will have the following general specifications: 1) Antenna reflector, 1000-foot-diameter spherical bowl, illuminated by a 430-Mc dual-polarized feed. 2) Transmitter of 2.5 Mw peak, 150 kw average power, or 100 kw CW power. 3) Dual-channel receiver, capable of measuring total power, polarization and received spectrum. The radar will initially be used to measure the variation of electron density with height, the fluctuations of electron density at fixed heights and electron temperatures and magnetic field strengths at various heights. Ionospheric drifts may also be measured. The radar will also he able to obtain echoes from planets, information of the moon's surface and possibly echoes from the sun. Hydromagnetic shocks may also be detected and a study of cislunar ionization can be made. The passive system with the large antenna may be used as an instrument in radio astronomy to observe radio emission from planets and from true stars, and to make a survey of radio sources. With additional facilities, many radio astronomy measurements can be made taking advantage of the large antenna aperture and resulting high resolving power."
"AnX-band ruby maser radiometer is discussed. In particular, recent developments in the equipment design are detailed. Observations of radio sources are discussed, and response curves with and without the maser preamplifier are given. The detection of 3.45 cm radiation from the planet Saturn is reported, and the equivalent blackbody disk temperature calculated. The future of the maser amplifier in radio astronomy is considered."
"The design of an antenna calls for definite amplitudes and phases of the currents, but when the antenna has been constructed and adjusted, there will be departures from the design currents because of several factors. The customary procedure of taking radiation patterns and making the final adjustments semi-empirically has usually been satisfactory, but two difficulties have been setting in with the trend towards large antennas of high gain. First, it is impossible to measure the radiation pattern of the largest existing antennas; even the determination of single sections through the pattern or the gain in one direction presents difficulty. Second, the adjustments themselves are more laborious on larger antennas. It is therefore very desirable that the theory of antenna tolerances should be pursued so that the effect of departures can be taken into account, statistically or otherwise, during the design. This paper considers the effects of systematic and random errors on the radiation pattern of antennas representable by a field distribution over an aperture, such as paraboloidal reflectors and large arrays of small elements. In the case of paraboloids, the deterioration in directivity is found to depend on the mean square departure of the surface from the paraboloid of best weighted least-squares fit and on the two-dimensional autocorrelation function of the departure. The variation of directivity with wavelength of a particular paraboloid is deduced by leaving out of account those two-dimensional Fourier components of the departure with spatial periods less than a wavelength. Practical steps are considered for unifying testing, adjusting, and design so as to lead to the greatest relaxation of the mechanical tolerances imposed on construction."
"Most of our knowledge of solar bursts in the meter-wave region has been derived from dynamic spectral observations. Systematic spectral observations have led to the classification of meter-wave bursts into distinct spectral types. No such classification exists for cm-wave bursts because spectral observations are only just beginning. However, recent interferometric measurements have enabled the cm-wave bursts to be classified into a number of distinct types. The properties of such different types of cm-wave bursts are discussed in relation to their associated effects. Dynamic spectral observations of cm-wave bursts obtained at the University of Michigan show that cm-wave burst emission is a broad-band continuum, similar in nature to meter-wave type-IV and type-V emission."
"A 960-Mc two-element interferometer using the twin 90-foot steerable paraboloids of the California Institute of Technology Radio Observatory is described. The response of the associated receiving equipment as it applies to interferometric position measurements is analyzed in some detail, and an advantage of not rejecting the image response of the receiver is mentioned. Finally, a brief account is given of the various ways the interferometer may be used to measure right ascensions and declinations with both an east-west and a north-south baseline."
"In this paper a stepped cylindrical mirror is described which satisfies the following requirements: 1) it is free from spherical aberration for a point source at infinity on the axis, 2) both off-axis spherical aberration and coma vanish for fixed values of the field angle,\\bar{\\Omega}, and of the aperture,\\bar{\\alpha}. The analysis has been carried out, in the approximation of para-geometrical optics, by considering a diffraction grating of the generalized type, equivalent to the stepped mirror. Three interesting results are obtained, and precisely: 1) independently of the values of\\bar{\\omega}and\\bar{\\alpha}, the equivalent diffraction grating has a quasi-parabolic cross section, 2) the off-axis spherical aberration turns out to be negligible over the whole aperture0-\\bar{\\alpha}, for fields angles up to at least 20 degrees, 3) the residual coma turns out to be well corrected, too."
"A technique is described for adjustment of phase paths within large antenna arrays or paraboloidal surfaces which are now in use, or are planned, for radio astronomy. After large paraboloids have been constructed, they suffer distortions which are very difficult to investigate and for which photogrammetry, millimeterwave radar and optical survey have been suggested. A new suggestion, based on experiment at Stanford with phase measurement of long paths, is to place modulated gas discharge tubes, acting as scatterers, at various points on the paraboloidal surface and to monitor the phase path from a signal generator through the feed at the focus to each discharge tube in turn, and back. By means of a second probe, say a dipole situated at the vertex of the paraboloid, it is possible to triangulate on deflections. The feasibility of this scheme has been established in connection with the large Stanford cross antenna which has an aperture of 1339 wavelengths at 9.1 cm. The phase of the modulated reflected wave produced by the discharge tube is determined by adding it to a reference continuous wave of large amplitude and applying the resultant to a receiver sensitive to the modulating frequency. A null is obtained when the two waves are in quadrature. The coherent detection system allows measurement of the phase of the modulated reflection even when its amplitude is below -130 dbm. Using a 10-mwS-band signal generator, no difficulty was found in detecting the reflection from a small discharge tube placed 100 feet away from a 3 by 4 inch horn, which is sufficient range for applying the method to large paraboloids."
"A four-slot, linear broadside array on a rectangular-ridge waveguide is discussed. The slot conductances were adjusted to obtain a 20-db Dolph-Tchebycheff power distribution across the array.H-plane andE-plane patterns and gain were obtained; these agreed quite well with the theory."
"To study another octave of the solar radio-frequency spectrum, a new superheterodyne receiver using a video-frequency IF was developed. This receiver scans the 2000- to 4000-Mc octave in 0.1 sec by using a backward-wave oscillator as the local oscillator. A carefully designed balance mixer converts the incoming signal directly into a video signal, where it is amplified and displayed as an intensity-modulated trace on a high-resolution cathode-ray tube. The receiver has an average noise figure of 13.0 db, and a total gain variation of\\pm2db over this octave. The receiver features power output stabilization of the local oscillator, a 2000- to 4000-Mc noise source, and highly stable video amplifiers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A circuit is given enabling the range, time of occurrence, duration, maximum amplitude, and amplitude variations in radar echoes from meteor trails to be presented on a single-beam oscillograph."
"A perturbational procedure for reducing the sidelobe level of discrete linear arrays with uniform amplitude excitation by using nonuniform element spacing is presented. The calculation of the required element spacings is quite simple. The method can reduce the sidelobe level to about2/Ntimes the field intensity of the main lobe, whereNis the total number of elements, without increasing the beamwidth of the main lobe. Several examples are given."
"In Section I the theory of linear arrays consisting of two or more closely spaced elements that are interconnected by lumped reactances is reviewed. Specific application is made to two-element end-loaded folded dipoles and monopoles constructed of conductors with different diameters, to series tuned three-wire folded dipoles and monopoles, and to a three-wire-line reactor and impedance transformer. In Section II the circular folded dipole or Halo antenna is treated."
"The effectiveness of an imperfectly-conducting cylindrical shield of small cross section depends on both the attenuation through the metal wall of the externally maintained field and the amplitude of the current that is induced in the cylinder. When the length of the cylinder, which behaves like a linear scattering antenna, approaches a resonant value, the currents induced in the walls and the field inside the tube are relatively large. Under these conditions, large currents may be induced in a thin dipole placed coaxially within the shield."
"The problem of devising a passive RF transmission line feed system to provide independent multiple outputs from a linear array is considered. It is shown that a lossless, matched feed network is possible only for uniform aperture distribution. The general feed system for connecting2^{n}inputs to2^{n}elements is shown to consist of conventional hybrid junctions with associated phase shifters. In order to increase the possible number of elements in the array, the problem of finding applicable junctions more complex than the hybrid is considered. Junctions with three inputs and three outputs and with four inputs and four outputs are derived for use in multiple feed networks, expanding the number of elements in the array to2^{l}3^{m}4^{n}."
"The concept of time-modulated antennas has recently been demonstrated as a means of overcoming many of the limitations currently restricting advances in the antenna art. Of special importance is the mathematical possibility of generating a pattern complex capable of providing simultaneous scan operation. This characteristic is realized by periodic time modulation of the aperture distribution. This paper discusses the theory of simultaneous \"scanning\" using time modulation techniques and shows that the required pattern complex is generated by a progressive-pulse aperture excitation. The fundamental equations and relationships concerning the form of pulse excitation and \"scanning\" coverage are derived. In addition, practical methods of physically generating the proper pulse-excited aperture are described, and the necessary detection requirements are delineated."
"Thin films and coatings of photoconductive cadmium sulfide material are being used to modulate electric fields. This paper analyzes these films in terms of the physics involved and the effect upon microwave fields. Experimental procedures show the validity of the analyses and indicate possible applications of the principle. Practical significance of the technique is illustrated by experimentally determining the areas of a particular flat plate that produce the first sidelobe of the scattering pattern."
"In this paper, it is shown that by arranging the elements of a beam-scanning planar antenna array in a triangular pattern rather than a rectangular pattern, the number of elements needed in the array is reduced. (The number of elements needed in an array is determined from the requirement that no spurious beams form in the array pattern.) The reduction in the number of elements depends upon the solid angle over which the main beam is positioned. If the main beam is positioned within a constant angle about the array normal, then the number of elements can be reduced by 13.4 per cent by arranging the elements in a pattern of equilateral triangles rather than in a square pattern. If the main beam is positioned within a \"pyramid,\" centered about the array normal, then the reduction is usually less than 13.4 per cent. Graphs are included showing for both element arrangements the solid angle over which the main beam can be scanned without the formation of spurious beams."
"A two dimensional coma-corrected zoned mirror has been investigated by a rigorous integral equation formulation, for whose solution a procedure of successive approximation can be established. For computational convenience, the exact first order solution is again approximated. The error committed in this approximation is investigated. The higher order solutions due to couplings between zones are not significant so far as the image field is concerned. In the example studied, it is found that for a system with smallF-number and an illumination of small taper the coma aberration of this zoned mirror is practically eliminated for scan angles up to25\\deg, in sharp contrast to a smooth parabola whose scanning characteristics are also presented for comparison. However, the chromatic aberration overshadows this advantage for a wide-band application; the total bandwidth of this example is only a few per cent."
"The electric field diffracted by a strip caused by an incident cylindrical wave with E parallel to the edge, at various angles of incidence, is measured in a parallel plane medium. The field is compared with that computed from geometrical optics currents and with the addition of equivalent line currents at the edges. The edge \"line currents\" improve the geometrical optics current field particularly at oblique incidence."
"A microwave antenna can be designed in the form of two reflecting dishes and a feed, based on the principle of the Cassegrain optical telescope. There are a variety of shapes and sizes available, all described by the same set of equations. The essential performance of a Cassegrain double-reflector system may be easily analyzed by means of the equivalent-parabola single-reflector concept. Techniques are available for reducing the aperture blocking by the sub dish of the Cassegraln system: one method minimizes the blocking by optimizing the geometry of the feed and sub dish; other methods avoid the blocking by means of polarization-twisting schemes. The former method yields good performance in a simple Cassegrain antenna when the beamwidth is about1\\degor less. The latter methods are available for any application not requiring polarization diversity, and an optimized set of polarization-operative surfaces has been developed for these twisting Cassegrain antennas. Experimental results, presented for practical antennas of both types, illustrate the feasibility of these principles. A number of unusual benefits have been obtained in the various Cassegrain antenna designs, and additional interesting features remain to be exploited."
"For satellite orbit determinations, it is necessary to know the range to the satellite with great accuracy. The presence of the ionosphere with a frequency-dependent index of refraction produces errors in range measurements made by either CW (Doppler) or pulse radio techniques. A measurement scheme is proposed that gives the instantaneously-corrected range for a spherically stratified ionosphere without recourse to any further assumptions about the electron density profile. The corrected range is given by the average of the CW and pulse range measurements and is free of the first-order error contributed by the inverse frequency-squared term in the refractive index. This scheme is shown to be slightly more effective than a scheme combining the results of two CW range measurements. Expressions are also derived for the higher-order residual errors which remain after the proposed compensation, and the expressions for the variation in arrival angle with frequency are given. These expressions depend upon the integrated effect of the free electrons; consequently, a calculation with a simple profile should yield typical results. The compensated range error and the residual errors are given for a satellite at a height of 640 km, arrival angles in the first quadrant, and at a frequency of 100 Mc. This compensation scheme cancels all but a few per cent of the original range error."
"The first part of this paper is concerned with finding an analytical expression for the scattering cross section of chaff oriented randomly within a vertical cone. The dipoles are allowed to take on all the angles within this cone. A vertically-polarized receiver is assumed off on the horizon and the transmitter on the ground below the chaff. The cross section is a function of the conical angle of the configuration and the angle between a normal to the ground and the incident electric field from the transmitter. Fig. 2 is a plot of the scattering cross section as a function of these two angles. Half-wave chaff randomly distributed within a conical angle about a vertical is not the most effective ensemble, but is a practical one at the lower frequencies. Cutting all these half-wave dipoles into very short ones makes it practical to place them in a horizontal position which has an ensemble gain over the conical but a reradiation loss, since short dipoles are less effective scatters than half-wave ones. The second part of this paper compares the reradiation loss and horizontal ensemble gain."
"The scattering of a plane electromagnetic wave of wave numberk, by an infinite slit (of width2a) formed by two unidirectionally conducting, semi-infinite coplanar screens of zero thickness is considered. By employing an integral equation procedure, a rigorous asymptotic solution is obtained up to order(ka)^{-5/2}. The currents induced on the screens and the first few terms in the transmission coefficient are evaluated. The similarity between this and the corresponding problem involving perfectly conducting screens is pointed out."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Some of the fadings of the 40-Mc signals from Sputnik I during morning transits are assumed to originate in Faraday rotation in the ionosphere. This has been investigated for the transit of October 12, 1957, 5:30 GMT, for which the orbit was known with reasonable accuracy. The fading records show an increasing fading rate during the last part of the transit. This is contrary to the simple theory based on the assumptions of a flat earth and a homogeneous ionosphere, from which a constant fading rate should be expected. The main reason why simple theory did not apply in this case, is that the satellite travels through the twilight zone from night towards day, i.e. from low to high ionization. The Faraday rotation is calculated by means of data for the orbit, magnetic field maps and predictions of the ionosphere conditions. The result is in good agreement with the observation when a high ionization between the altitude of maximum ionization and the satellite is assumed. The effect of refraction is estimated by means of the perturbation theory. It increases the Faraday rotation from 0 to 19 per cent during the transit. The general conclusion is that, even though the fading behavior of a transit near sunrise is explainable to some extent, it is still difficult to deduce detailed information on the state of the ionosphere from it, especially when the frequency is so low that refraction becomes significant."
"A brief biography of John T. Bolljahn is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"An exact procedure for the design of a surface that will support a prescribed group of surface waves simultaneously is described. The surfaces resulting from the application of this procedure are found to be modulated (i.e., to contain periodic waves in the direction of propagation) and to have surface impedance values that vary periodically in the direction of propagation. Finite-length surfaces of this type are hence reminiscent of Simon's \"cigar antenna.\" Several surface designs are presented, and some general properties of the surfaces and the composite waves they support are discussed. Certain limitations on the design procedure are described."
"Many of the diversity techniques currently proposed or in use for scatter reception may be viewed as utilizing antenna systems with several adjustable parameters-typically two to four which are continually varied in response to fluctuations in the incident waveform, so as to maximize received power. An investigation is described which defines an ideal upper bound on performance of a linear variable-parameter antenna system in a scatter-type reception situation. The important results are 1) a standard for evaluation of antenna performance, and 2) deeper physical insight into the problem of antenna operation in scatter-type reception. A reception model is used in which the receiving antenna views a set of radio sources on a hypothetical celestial sphere. For each such set of sources possible, a \"matched\" antenna excitation exists which maximizes received power. Assuming random fluctuations in the radio source consistent with those observed in the transhorizon phenomenon, statistical properties of the received power are derived for the optimized antenna. Similar properties are then investigated for standard diversity systems. A significant \"gap\" is found to exist between the performance of existing or contemplated systems and the theoretical optimum."
"The propagation characteristics of leaky waves on slotted circular cylinders are derived by the methods described in an earlier paper on leaky rectangular waveguides. The cross section of a typical leaky circular wavegaide is represented by a radial transmission line network incorporating a lumped terminating admittance which characterizes the slot discontinuity and the external region. The expression for the lumped admittance is obtained by combining an integral equation solution with a variational procedure. The resonances of this transverse network, which yield the complex propagation constants for the leaky waves, are solved by perturbation techniques to produce results in simple and practical form. Solutions are obtained for leaky waves corresponding to two different excitations of a slotted cylinder and these results are shown to compare favorably with measured values."
"A method of calculating the radiation pattern of a circular antenna array of parallel monopoles or dipoles using symmetrical components is presented. The results obtained when only one element of the array is excited are not particularly good. However, if an additional element is added at the center of the array a fairly good directional pattern results. The sidelobe level is dependent upon the tuning of this central element, and a graphical analysis is given which optimizes this tuning. Calculated and measured patterns are shown and compared. Sidelobe levels of 15 db, and a beamwidth of78\\degare typical. The principal advantage of this antenna lies in the fact that the pointing of the beam can be changed by simply changing the element that is excited."
"An array of eight spiral doublets, each doublet consisting of a pair of equally-excited two-wire spirals in the same plane and wound in opposite senses, has been used to scan a beam of horizontal polarization over a\\pm 40\\degrange simply by rotations of the spiral doublets. The combination of a microstrip ring network and twin lead provided a balanced feed for each spiral in the array. Sidelobe levels were those predicted (25 db) for the broadside pattern and-at the test frequency of 1430 Mc-were, in general, below 19 db over the80\\degscan. A novel microstrip feed harness provided isolation between the doublets and served to absorb most circulating currents. This printed circuit feedboard consisted of judiciously-grouped microstrip ring networks and provided the desired feeding coefficients to within\\pm0.1db. An application of the array for tracking purposes is also described."
"The beam waveguide utilizes reiterative wave beams which are guided by resetting the cross-sectional phase distributions at periodic intervals. The major purpose of the measurements was to obtain data concerning the inherent losses of the guide, including the diffraction loss, caused by energy by-passing the phase transformers, and the dielectric and reflection losses of the transformers. Resonance measurements with an \"open cavity,\" consisting of a section of a beam waveguide terminated by plane reflector walls, yielded the over-all losses of the phase transformers. In order to isolate the diffraction loss, pulse measurements were made between two reflectors, slightly curved to reset the phase distribution in the reflected beam. These measurements also gave information on the build-up of the reiterative wave beam. The experimental data support the theory which predicts that the diffraction losses of reiterative beams can be made extremely small."
"Any field in a half-space can be described by a continuous spectrum of cylindrical waves. If this spectrum comprises substantially only waves whose propagation constant is very close to the plane wave propagation constant, the field can be resolved into a set of elementary wave beams which are characterized by Laguerre polynomials. They satisfy orthogonality relations like the wave modes in a waveguide. The elementary beams or \"beam modes\" can be reiterated and guided by reconstituting the cross-sectional phase distribution at certain intervals. Reiterative beams are utilized in the beam waveguide. The finite size of the phase resetting devices effects a modification of the reiterative beam modes and causes diffraction losses. These losses decrease very rapidly with increasing diameter of the phasing devices."
"One type of phased-array radar of current interest employs an array of separate receiving elements, each followed by an individual amplifier. These individual signals are combined coherently to form one or more receiving beams for searching, tracking, or performing both functions simultaneously. This paper presents an approach to the theory of angle measurement with a phased array of this type. In the one-dimensional problem considered here, the receiving antenna consists of a linear array of individual antenna-amplifier elements. The receiver-noise-limited case is considered, in which accuracy is limited by the additive normally distributed noise present in each channel. An expression is derived for the limiting accuracy of angular measurement when a single set of samples is available. This set of samples is obtained simultaneously, one sample from each channel. Next, two methods of implementing the angular measurements are discussed. These are amplitude comparison monopulse and a coherent or phase comparison technique. For large signal-to-noise ratios and for either a square law or a linear envelope detector, the accuracy of amplitude comparison monopulse approaches the theoretical limit. The same accuracy can be achieved with the coherent technique by proper weighting of the individual signals."
"The concept of coupled surface waves is introduced to describe the action of element interaction in a broadside array of traveling-wave end-fire antennas. These coupled waves are formulated in terms of an interaction matrix, whose elements either can be determined experimentally, or, for some antenna structures, can be computed. Two methods of pattern evaluation based on two well-known approaches to end-fire antennas are then presented. The roles of interaction in the two methods turn out to be quite different, and the method which assumes radiation at the end of the antenna appears to be more favorable. A criterion on the over-all interaction effect on array pattern is introduced which indicates under what condition coupling can be neglected. Finally, the nature of patterns obtainable with different element spacings is examined."
"A problem associated with a two-dimensional spiral doublet array is concerned with the fact that use of the spiral doublet as an element to obtain linear polarization leads to spacing difficulties, since the distance between elements is always twice as much in one dimension as in the other. Thus, the allowable scan is seriously limited in one principal plane. A method is proposed for obtaining linear polarization from a single spiral antenna by using it in combination with a polarization grating and a ground plane. Experimental results were obtained by combining eight of these elements in a one-dimensional array. For the broadside position of the main beam, the field was found to be linear, with the cross-polarized component of the main beam being 40 db down from the principal polarization. As the beam was scanned out to\\pm 45\\deg, the linearity decreased quite rapidly (to approximately 10 db at45\\deg) and the plane of the linear polarization was rotated; sidelobes were higher than predicted. Use of this array rather than an array of doublets would involve a compromise concerning specifications, dependent upon the particular application of the array."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The inclined, narrow-wall slot radiator has been used extensively in antenna arrays. The slot is easily machined and handles high power. The inclination of the slot, however, produces an undesirable cross-polarized radiation component. This cross polarization, coupled with the variation of the slot admittance with frequency, causes pattern deterioration and loss in array efficiency. A noninclined, narrow-wall slot radiator has been developed. This slot is excited by two compound irises which produce an inclination of the electric field as it passes the slot. The field inclination replaces the slot inclination, thereby eliminating the cross-polarized component. Although the power handling capability of the slot is limited by the iris structure, the slot has improved conductance characteristics. Variation of slot excitation in both amplitude and phase has been produced by varying the iris dimensions. The iris-excited, narrow-wall slot radiator has application to receiving and to low-power transmitting arrays."
"A class of two-dimensional, nonplanar, modified Luneberg lenses is developed which generalizes the properties of many of the previously developed lenses. By this development the radiated beam can have an arbitrary direction relative to the plane of the lens as compared to previously developed designs in which the beam must lie in the plane of the lens. The lenses are of arbitrary contour; however, only the spherical and the planar contours are considered in detail."
"This paper describes the analysis and design of a class of antennas which can radiate and receive constant-shape pencil beams with either circular sense, any linear or elliptical polarization by a simple adjustment in the feed circuit. Such radiators are called arbitrarily polarized antennas. The apertures described are located on upper plates of radial waveguides and are composed of annular slots, with each annulus consisting of a discrete number of crossed slots. The annular slots are positioned so that each arm of the crossed slots can couple by a constant factor with the radial or circumferential currents flowing over the aperture plate to produce a common instantaneous direction for the electric field in each slot pair Both standing-wave and traveling-wave array types are employed. The standing-wave array requires only one radial waveguide mode for its operation. The traveling-wave array requires two modes and results in greater bandwidth and greater freedom in arraying many annuli. The methods used to excite the various radial waveguide modes are discussed; theoretical and experimental radiation patterns atXband are compared."
"It is well known that through the use of lenses, several independent beams can be formed from a single antenna, with each beam having essentially the gain corresponding to the aperture of the lens. Recently, feed systems have been developed for linear arrays which achieve similar performance through the use of directional couplers. In this paper it is shown that the shape of the beams which can be formed from an equispaced array by such a feed matrix is not arbitrary, unless one is willing to accept losses in addition to normal plumbing losses. It is shown that the array space factors associated with the individual beams must be such that they are mutually orthogonal over a period of the space-factor pattern."
"Radiation from an axial magnetic-current element in the presence of a corrugated cylinder is considered. It is indicated that the power radiated in a given mode depends on the surface reactance, the circumference of the cylinder and the elevation angle. For certain values of the parameters, particular modes are strongly excited in a manner corresponding to the resonance condition of the circumferential (or spiral) surface waves."
"The dependence of the signal strength of radio waves upon ionospheric focusing and spatial attenuation is calculated for a spherical ionosphere in terms of parameters obtainable from the appropriate vertical incidence ionogram. The signal strength at any given distance can be presented as a function of these ionospheric parameters in the form of a contour chart from which the unabsorbed field strength can be obtained easily as a function of frequency. The geometrical optics approximation is used. The limits of the region at the skip distance for which this method fails are estimated by comparing the results of a ray- and a wave-type calculation."
"An experiment was performed over a 161-mile path between Alpine, N. J., and Round Hill, Mass., to determine the frequency fluctuations produced by the propagation mechanism on a highly stable signal in an over-the-horizon tropospheric circuit. A signal at 388.0 Mc was transmitted from Alpine using a 10-kw transmitter and a12\\degbeamwidth antenna. These transmissions were received at Round Hill with a5\\degbeamwidth antenna and heterodyned to 416.7 Mc using a highly stable local oscillator and retransmitted to Alpine. Using coherent reception techniques, the retransmitted signal was received at Alpine and heterodyned with the signal originally transmitted. The difference frequency was fed to a bank of narrow-bandwidth crystal filters. An analysis of the data obtained from these filters indicated that the standard deviation of the frequency fluctuations of the signal was approximately 0.6 cps when CW transmission was employed. An additional feature of the experiment was an attempt to measure the variations of the propagation path length as a function of time. It appears that the standard deviation of the path length variations was less than 55 meters when the average path length in\\frac{1}{6}-second intervals was measured."
"Beginning with Maxwell's equations, the field components and propagation constants are found inside a plane apertureH-plane sectoral horn antenna containing two dielectrics. The horn is assumed to be fed from a waveguide containing the dominantTE_{10}mode. Knowing the phase constants in the two dielectrics makes it possible to calculate the dimensions of a triangular-shaped dielectric slab which, when placed in the horn, can alter the curved phase front and produce an approximation to a uniform-plane phase front at the aperture of the horn. This improved phase front results in an improved far field pattern."
"Radar elevation-angle errors observed in the Tularosa Basin of New Mexico are compared with values predicted from the surface value of the radio refractive index. Although this method of prediction is not particularly efficacious under the conditions of this experiment, encouraging agreement nevertheless was obtained between predicted and observed: a) mean value of elevation angle error, b) variation of elevation angle error withN_{s}, and c), the degree of reduction in the uncertainty of prediction gained over the use of a single-standard atmosphere."
"The characteristics of meteor propagation were investigated over two nearly parallel paths from Walpole, Mass., to Congaree, S. C. (1250 km) and from Walpole, Mass., to Smyrna, Ga. (1480 km). Simultaneous measurements were made at 49 Mc and 74 Mc. The duty cycle for meteor propagation was measured at both frequencies with separate determination of the contributions from underdense trails, specular overdense trails, and nonspecular trails. As a function of signal amplitudeA, the data could be fitted by assuming the duty cycle to be proportional toA^{-k}, whereklies between 0.9 and 1.8 depending on the time of day and types of trail contributing. Roughly half of the duty cycle came from nonspecular overdense trails and only 10 to 20 per cent from underdense trails. Simultaneous measurements with two separate receiving systems were made at both 49 Mc and 74 Mc in order to determine the effects of antenna height-difference and various lateral antenna-separations. The meteor signals were strongly decorrelated by certain antenna height-differences. Overdense trails produced some decorrelation with lateral antenna-separation, but underdense trails gave well-correlated echoes. No significant differences in meteor echo rate were found between receiving systems in very flat terrain at Congaree, S. C., and hilly terrain at Smyrna, Ga. For the hilly terrain, best signal correlation was found for nearby antennas which were at the same height above sea level."
"All of the maximum propagation (220 Mc) ranges observed in an elevated duct regime varied from 500 to 1200 miles compared to less than 400 miles observed with the same equipment elsewhere. The measurements were made at the optimum season (November) in a tradewind regime between Brazil and Ascension Island (8\\degS. latitude). The field strengths above 4000 feet altitude are as much as 40 db larger than those at lower altitudes. From the level at average duct height (6000 feet) the field decreases slowly to 10,000 feet, the maximum altitude investigated. The slow fading rate usually associated with duct propagation is not always observed even on the very long range runs. An extrapolation to propagation conditions in the month of March via refractive index measurements indicates quite minimal ducting conditions 10 per cent to 20 per cent of the time."
"The propagation of discontinuities of an electromagnetic field is considered for the case of a conducting medium. Conditions relating the values of the discontinuities in the electric and magnetic fields are obtained, and equations governing the transport of the discontinuities through space are derived. Such discontinuity conditions and transport equations are obtained both for the fields and for thenth order partial time derivatives of the fields. Previous derivations have treated the case of a nonconducting medium and have used distribution theory. The present treatment does not use distribution theory."
"In the numerical evaluation of radiation integrals, the number of terms required depends on the accuracy desired, the method of integration, the current distribution on the antenna, the length of the antenna, and the observation angle. Simpson's rule and the trapezoidal rule appear to be used almost exclusively at present. A \"piecewise linear rule\" introduced here is shown to yield greater accuracy for a given calculation time."
"It is shown experimentally that an essentially traveling-wave distribution of current can be produced on a linear antenna by inserting a resistance of suitable magnitude one-quarter wavelength from the end of the antenna. A theory for the resistively-loaded dipole antenna is formulated on the basis that the inserted resistors (one in each arm) can be replaced by equivalent generators and that the resulting triply-driven antenna can be solved by the superposition of singly- and doubly-driven dipoles. Approximately 50 per cent of the power is dissipated in these resistors. With a traveling-wave distribution of current on an antenna available, the properties of this antenna are then investigated and compared with those of the conventional linear antenna. It is found that the input impedance of the traveling-wave antenna remains essentially constant as a function of antenna length, whereas that of the conventional linear antenna varies considerably. It is also shown that the input impedance of the traveling-wave antenna varies only slightly over a 2 to 1 frequency band. The directional properties of the traveling-wave and conventional dipole are compared, and it is shown that a minor lobe does not appear in the radiation pattern of the traveling-wave dipole until it is much longer than the conventional dipole. Also, it is shown that where the directional properties of the conventional dipole are quite sensitive to a change in frequency, those of the traveling-wave dipole are not."
"A conical beam may be obtained from balanced equiangular spiral antennas by constructing an antenna with more than two spiral arms and symmetrically connecting these arms to provide a suppression of the radiated fields on the axis of the antenna. The angle of this conical beam can be controlled and, with proper choice of parameters, confined to the immediate vicinity of the azimuthal (\\theta = 90\\deg) plane. An antenna with four symmetrically spaced arms can provide a radiation pattern that is within 3 db of omnidirectional circularly polarized coverage in the azimuthal plane. The standing-wave ratio of this antenna referred to a 50-ohm coaxial cable is less than 2-to-1 over the pattern bandwidth. This four-arm version retains the wide frequency bandwidths of the basic conical log-spiral antenna, and it provides a coverage which heretofore has been difficult to obtain even with narrow-band antennas."
"This paper deals with the partial reflection of electromagnetic waves from a stratified inhomogeneity. When the refractive index profile is an analytic function and the wave number is large, the reflection coefficient is calculated by the use of the Volterra integral equation and the relation between the WKB approximation and the internal reflection is examined. The reflection coefficient in this ease is calculated also by the WKB method using the connection formula around the turning point which lies in the complex plane. When the index profile is discontinuous, the reflection coefficients are calculated for simple models. The reflection coefficients of the above two cases are compared. The reflected field from randomly distributed multi-layers is discussed using the above results."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"During the total solar eclipse of October 2, 1959, and during a 10-day control period bracketing this date, measurements were made of radio signals received at frequencies of 224 Mc, 1300 Mc, and 3000 Mc. These measurements indicated that point sources on the sun, rather than the total disk, were the constant-energy sources responsible for the scintillations of the received signals. This conclusion is in agreement with the work of Kazes and Steinberg. The fact that, during the period of totality, scintillations were observed at the two higher frequencies indicated that limb sources produced the scintillations. Interferometric maps of the sun taken during this period showed plage areas at frequencies of 1420 Mc and 3300 Mc; however, at a frequency of 169 Mc, these maps showed only a relatively uniformly bright sun. In line with these findings, the recorded radio data did not show scintillations at the 224-Mc frequency but did show scintillations at the 1300-Mc and 3000-Mc frequencies. During the control period, the scintillations at 1300 Mc were well correlated in detail with those at 3000 Mc. For this frequency range, it therefore appears that the scintillation oscillations are not frequency dependent. The two sets of data were taken at different antenna apertures. The 1300-Mc data were taken on an 84-foot parabolic antenna, whereas the 3000-Mc readings were made on an 8-foot parabolic antenna, 80 feet distant from the larger unit. Thus, it appears that, for this frequency range, the mechanism is not only independent of frequency but, within the experimental limits, is also not greatly affected by the size of the antenna. The periods of the scintillations (30 seconds to 2 minutes) show that the shadow pattern is large in extent. Almost all scintillations took place when the sun was below4\\degof altitude. A hypothesis is advanced that the blob structure of the troposphere, possibly at the height of the tropopause, is formed into a curved lens. The focusing of the energy through this concave lens produces the scintillations observed."
"The circuit properties of a dipole antenna coupled electromagnetically to a two-wire transmission line are studied theoretically and experimentally. Some arrays constructed of a number of dipole antennas coupled electromagnetically to a two-wire line are considered and the radiation patterns are found."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The perturbations in mutual coupling due to finiteness of a dipole array and its ground plane have been studied. Experimental procedures were evolved to measure these perturbations and their influence on antenna performance as a function of beam position. Data for one- and two-dimensional dipole arrays are presented and interpreted, particularly with reference to edge effects."
"In a monopulse antenna for use in a tracking radar, the requirements for the sum and difference modes are not the same. For the amplitude-comparison type of monopulse having an antenna whose main aperture is illuminated by a feed, these independent requirements can be met by a feed designed to fulfill two conditions. One is that excitation of the feed aperture in the difference modes be effectively about twice as wide as in the sum mode. The other is that the shapes of all the feed excitations be free of any avoidable irregularities. The amount of improvement available when these conditions are met depends on the optimization point desired for each mode, as well as the design of the reference antenna. In a typical case, the gains and slopes in the difference modes should increase by several db. Furthermore, the near sidelobes and the spillover radiation in the difference modes should decrease by an order of magnitude. A small increase of gain in the sum mode is also available, and finally, the criticalness of positioning the feed may be appreciably reduced."
"The equatorial plane radiation fields produced by a sinusoidal distribution of axial electric field along a half wavelength circumferential slot on a metallic cylinder of radiusahave been computed by means of an IBM-704 electronic computer. Radiation patterns in this plane are given for sizes of cylinder from1\\leqka\\leq30. It is believed that these computations are the most accurate made to date for these patterns. From these patterns it is seen that as the cylinder increases in size, for a given wavelength, the patterns sharpen, and in the limit of infinite cylinder radius the patterns approach that from a slot on an infinite plane."
"This report, the third in a series,1,2summarizes experimental studies of microwave over-ocean propagation on line-of-sight paths. Measurements at 5.3, 3.2, and 0.86 cm wavelength in 1955, in the Gulf of Mexico, between two oil drilling platforms one mile apart are compared with the results of the phenomenological model developed earlier. The total field was measured at maxima, and minima of the interference patterns using a sequence of receiver beam widths. The scattered field alone was measured by means of a narrow beam. The 1955, Gulf of Mexico data, are consistent with the previous 1953, Golden Gate data, in regions of overlap of certain parameters, and provide extended coverage for other values under different conditions. Specifically, some of the new findings are: a) The experimental values of the coherent reflected field are larger than exp [-2(2\\pi h\\psi /1000\\lambda)^{2}] for values of \"apparent ocean roughness\" (h\\psi/\\lambda) greater than 110 milliradians,h=standard deviation of water surface,\\psi=grazing angle in milliradians, and\\lambdaelectromagnetic wavelength, b) After rising from zero, the incoherent scattered power exhibits a downtrend forh\\psi/\\lambdagreater than 110. The incoherent power divided by the square of the smooth sea reflection coefficient shows no polarization dependence, c) The distribution along the surface as measured by the narrow-beam antenna shows that the coherent and incoherent power are markedly peaked in the specular direction, d) The ratios of coherent-to-incoherent power (m2) obtained from the shapes of the probability distributions agree with the power ratios obtained by measurements of the magnitudes of the signals, e) Total signal spectra broaden with increasingh\\psi/\\lambdaas found at the Golden Gate; the relative shapes of spectra agree with those from the Golden Gate. Horizontally- and vertically-polarized total signal spectra are the same."
"Results are given of radio propagation measurements which have recently been made in the Caribbean. The transmission loss on beyond-the-horizon paths in this region was found to be considerably less than that measured over paths of similar length in temperate climates. The fact that the path loss is, in general, relatively low in the Caribbean is believed to be chiefly due to the large gradient of the refractive index of the atmosphere which normally prevails in the first few hundred feet above the earth's surface in that area."
"The propagation of a plane electromagnetic (TE) wave into a plane stratified medium in which the ionization density varies as exp (z/z_{0}) is investigated. The solution of the wave equation appears as a combination of Bessel functions of imaginary order and complex argument, but the magnitude of the reflection coefficient (taken atz = -x) is given by the simple expression exp{-(4\\pi z_{0}\\cos \\theta_{i}/\\lambda) \\tan^{-1}(\\nu_{c}/\\omega)}, where\\theta_{i}is the angle of incidence,\\lambdais the free-space wavelength and (\\nu_{c}/\\omega) is the ratio of electron collision frequency to the frequency of the field. In general, the field components must be obtained from a complex series, but at depths beyond the critical density asymptotic forms are given which display the rapid decay of the evanescent field in terms of elementary functions."
"Examination of the hourly values of the 10-90 per cent fading range of selected 915 Mc tropospheric scatter records of a 400-mile path have shown unusual behavior which correlates well with wind shear through the scatter volume. Although the meteorological data were of a gross nature and were collected at a point at least 70 miles from the common volume, correlation coefficients of 0.76 to 0.8 were obtained. The data indicate that the fading range (10-90 per cent in this case) increases by 1.4 db per meter/sec/km increase in average wind shear through the scatter volume."
"A general solution of Maxwell's equations for a single frequency can be expressed as the combination of two types of solution, each of which is characterized by an electric vector which is equal to the magnetic vector times the intrinsic impedance of free space but a quarter cycle out of phase. These two types are mathematically orthogonal, and each can be conveniently expressed by means of a single scalar. The method leads to circularly polarized surface waves propagating along anisotropic sheets which are perfectly conducting in one tangential direction and perfectly transparent in the orthogonal tangential direction."
"In an amplitude-monopulse antenna whose main aperture is illuminated by a feed, it is desired to control the feed excitation independently in the sum, azimuth difference, and elevation difference modes. It is possible to describe a feed system, comprising an infinite array of radiators and hybrid junctions, which demonstrates the principle of complete independent control of the three modes. There are several practical feeds which approach a hypothetical ideal one in varying degrees. One representative type is the \"twelve-horn feed;\" although it has some disadvantages, it is versatile and quite useful. However the most attractive type for many applications appears to be one having a combination of multiple-horn excitation in one plane and multimode-waveguide excitation in the other. With a simple form of the \"multihorn-multimode\" feed, the ideal is substantially realized, and a major improvement in monopulse performance can be obtained."
"Results are reported of measurements made at very low angles of 2880-Mc vertically-polarized signals over wooded areas, with the elevation angle to the transmitter the principal variable. The effects of one tree and of many trees on the apparent location of a signal source, as determined with a narrow-beam antenna, are reported. A hypothetical direction-finding system is assumed and its pointing characteristics determined."
"A brief biography of Philip S. Carter is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper presents a generalized variational method for calculation of equivalent-circuit parameters or scattering coefficients of any thin obstacle. The equivalent susceptance is obtained from an eigenvalue of a general-energy operator. The method is applied here to the scattering of a plane wave by a conducting screen containing a doubly-periodic array of square apertures. Previous variational formulations of analogous waveguide problems were largely restricted to cases in which only the dominant mode can propagate. In applying these methods to scattering problems, the ratio of aperture spacing to wavelength had to be restricted to less than unity at normal incidence so that no additional propagating modes were excited. The formulation presented here can be applied, however, for any number of propagating modes. Numerical results are presented for scattering by a periodically apertured screen, giving scattering coefficients as a function of wave number of the incident wave. The distribution of energy into higher-order diffraction lobes is evaluated."
"A solution of Maxwell's equations is obtained for an antenna consisting of an infinite number of equally spaced wires in the form of coplanar equiangular spirals. Radiation amplitude patterns obtained from this solution agree closely with measurements on two-element spiral antennas. The phase pattern shows the approximate validity of a phase center at a distance behind the antenna which decreases with the tightness of the spiral. The current distribution clearly shows increased attenuation with increase in the tightness of the spiral, thus showing how the frequency-independent mode depends on the curvature. A remarkable feature of the solution is that the current consists of an inward traveling wave at infinity when the antenna is excited in that sense which produces an outward wave at the center."
"A general solution to the problem of diffraction from a perfectly conducting sphere with a concentric shell spaced any distance from the surface of the sphere is presented. If the shell consists of a dielectric material the solution simplifies by using asymptotic expressions for the spherical Bessel function. Another simplification results when the shell is assumed to be thin."
"Based on the theory of Nicolet and Ailkin, the profile of ionospheric conductivity exhibits a nearly exponential variation with altitude through theDlayer and the lower edge of theElayer. Propagation of ELF waves below this exponential layer is considered after calculating the surface impedanceZ_{s}at an altitudehwhere the local refractive indexndoes not necessarily satisfy|n|\\gg1. The propagation constant is determined by an iteration process. This model of an isotropic nonhomogeneous ionosphere is a closer approximation of the propagation geometry than are earlier models, whereZ_{s}was defined athwhere|n|gg1. The present model accounts simultaneously for ELF attenuation rates as measured by Jean, and earth-ionosphere cavity resonances as observed by Balser and Wagner."
"The apparent temperatures of smooth and rough terrain surfaces are calculated for frequencies between 1 and 75 kMc, for angles of incidence between5\\degand80\\deg, and for observation altitudes between 2 km and 32 km. The attenuation and thermal radiation caused by the atmosphere are accounted for by an experimental model atmosphere, and the surface emissivities are based on measured complex dielectric constants (for the smooth surfaces) and measured radar return (for the rough surfaces). It is found that perpendicular polarization provides the greatest temperature contrast between rough and smooth surfaces, and that the contrast decreases as the altitude of observation increases; atf=75kMc (approximately the resonant frequency of the oxygen molecule), there is likely to be little, if any, contrast between rough and smooth surfaces."
"The radiation fields produced by a sinusoidal distribution of axial-electric field along a thin circumferential slot, cut in a perfectly conducting infinite cylinder which is covered by a concentric dielectric coating, are found by applying the method of Wait with two modifications. Initially, a structure consisting of a finite coated cylinder containing the slot and exciting a radial waveguide is considered. The fields in this waveguide are expressed in terms of derivatives of two axial Hertz vectors, and for a finite radial wall spacing are seen to consist of a double Fourier series. The radial walls are then allowed to become infinitely spaced; in this process, the Fourier-series representation for the axial dependence of the fields becomes a Fourier integral. The radiation fields are then found by asymptotically evaluating the Fourier integral by the method of stationary phase rather than by the saddle-point method. Expressions for the radiation fields are then found, but are given explicitly for the equatorial plane only. Calculated radiation patterns in this plane, for a coating having a fixed dielectric constant with the thickness as a parameter, and for a fixed thickness with the dielectric constant as a parameter, are given for the case of a cylinder of size\\beta_{0}a=3. Generalizations based on these calculations are suggested. The case of a specific plasma coating is briefly considered, and an approximate solution, readily obtained, which gives the same azimuthal form for the equatorial patterns, is also noted."
"The validity of the often used dyadic-(\\jmath + \\frac{1}{k^{2}}\\nabla \\nabla )\\frac{e^{-jkR}{4\\piR}to compute the electric field inside a current-carrying region is investigated. It is found that care must be exercised in the definition of the integrals, which should be taken as principal values around the field point."
"By use of the currents on the infinite cylinder excited by a radial dipole, approximate expressions for the two components of the far-zone electric field of a radial electric dipole near a perfectly conducting finite cylinder are derived. The validity of the approximation depends on the conditions,kl_{2}\\gg 1andkl_{1} \\gg 1, i.e., the cylinder must be long compared to a wavelength. The expressions are initially in integral form but it is shown that they may be evaluated approximately over most of the range of\\thetaby use of the saddle point method. The theoretical results are compared to experimental results for a particular cylinder."
"The reaction theorem is generalized to allow the fields of an antenna in one environment to be employed in calculations of mutual impedance in another environment. Several expressions for self-impedance and mutual impedance are presented. These are in the form of surface integrals or volume integrals of the field intensities or the current density. It is shown how the fields of an antenna in free space can be useful in calculating the impedance in the presence of scatterers."
"On the basis of theoretical argument and experimental results, the capability of a single-channel spinning-loop direction finder to resolve the directional components of a multicomponent field of plane waves is demonstrated. Calculated bearing displays are compared with corresponding displays obtained by experiment for the cases of two and three components. Directional resolution of components of equal and differing frequencies is demonstrated, and methods of presenting the bearing display are discussed."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Antennas and Propagation."
"The propagation characteristics of electromagnetic waves in magneto-ionic slabs are of interest in predicting the behavior of trapped modes in anisotropic waveguide structures such as the ion ducts formed by the lines of the earth's magnetic field. This paper derives the expression for waveguide modes present in a uniform infinite plasma slab. The slab has finite thickness, is filled with a lossless plasma and threaded by a uniform static magnetic field along the direction of propagation. It is shown that two sets of hybrid modes can propagate in a magneto-ionic slab at frequencies below plasma resonance, but no trapped modes are supported above this frequency."
"A monopulse antenna for a tracking radar has been developed which overcomes the usual need for compromise between sum and difference mode performance. The reflector of this antenna is illuminated by an unusual feed which enables independent optimization of all three modes: sum, azimuth difference, and elevation difference. The feed achieves suitably tapered illumination in all the modes by selective excitation of four stacked horns In one plane, and by utilization of three waveguide modes in each horn in the other plane. Measurements of the antenna confirm an improvement in both the azimuth and elevation difference modes of over 3 db increase in peak gain, and over 10 db further sidelobe suppression, while retaining the optimum sum-mode performance."
"The principal sources of antenna noise are discussed together with their effects on antenna performance and methods of reducing these effects. The concept of antenna gain-temperature ratio is introduced and a mathematical method of handling it as a single design parameter evolved. Some limitations of very large continuous apertures are considered and a multielement system proposed as a means of increasing the useful size of large antennas. The performance of some typical arrays is discussed."
"This paper presents the theory of 180 degree scanning for a linear array and Tchebyscheff array by frequency variation and discusses the relationships between the linear array theory and the\\omega-\\betadiagram of periodic structures. Each element is excited by an equivalent slow wave structure which is either non-dispersive or dispersive. At a center frequency, the spacing is an integral multiple of guide wavelengthM\\lambda_{c}. It is shown that this is in fact the -Mth space harmonic in the so-called forbidden region, and all the other harmonics are slow. For a given frequency range, the necessary phase velocity and other parameters are determined in order to obtain 180 degree scanning without causing other main beams, and the example is carried out for the X-band frequency range."
"The plasmas attending a rocket in flight vary widely in charge density and size depending upon the source of the plasma and the altitude of operation. Such a plasma, i.e., a medium containing equal numbers of positive and negative charge so that it is electrically neutral in its totality, interacts with electromagnetic signals causing reflection, refraction and absorption. The solution of problems encountered in communicating through such a plasma depend upon a knowledge of its electrical properties. The complexity of the interaction requires that approximate solutions be used. A judicious application of the results of laboratory, flight and theoretical studies are required to enable the successful design of communication links. Extended theoretical and experimental studies are required to enable designs of communication systems for the space ship of the future."
"On the basis of available radar data, most of it concerning linear polarization, it had been postulated that although in the worst conditions of rain a circularly polarized signal may return distorted into an elipse, it would still be distinguishable from other polarizations and could be used to discriminate targets from ground clutter. Since a circularly polarized signal which was reflected from the ground to a target with vertical enhancement and then back to the radar antenna would return with a screw sense opposite that of single reflection return signals, and since ellipticity could be preserved, a system could be constructed which would effectively discriminate between background clutter from rain and the target return. In the experiment constructed to verify the preliminary hypothesis, the angle of incidence between the transmitting antenna, the target, and the ground was varied from 6 to 15 degrees. Over this range, linear polarization shows at least 5 db greater return for any angle in fair weather than does circular polarization with double bounce reflection. However, double bounce circular polarization (DBCP) reduces clutter from terrain background by from 5 to 10 db in any weather, and the portions of the experiment conducted in heavy rain showed that under those conditions the advantage of DBCP over linear was as much as 30 db. DBCP can pick up radar targets in heavy precipitation when linear radars are totally ineffective. It offers distinct possibilities as an all weather radar capability which could be added to conventional radars at very little cost either in money or in complexity. In conjunction with a system of passive reflectors on the ground it could provide a low cost bad weather navigational aid In this paper a method is discussed for radar air to surface target identification in heavy precipitation by the use of a circularly polarized signal reflected from the ground to the target, then back to the source. A reversal in screw sense allows discrimination between background clutter and target return. Curves are presented to show relative effectiveness variations with angle of incidence, degree of precipitation, and type of terrain. Applications are suggested for use of the system as an all weather adjunct to conventional radar systems and for foul weather navigation with a system of passive ground reflectors."
"During 1959 and 1960 long-term transmission loss measurements were performed over a 223 kilometer path in Eastern Colorado using frequencies of 100 and 751 Mc. This path intersects Pikes Peak which forms a knife-edge type obstacle visible from both terminals. The transmission loss measurements have been analyzed in terms of diurnal and seasonal variations in hourly medians and in instantaneous levels. As expected, results show that the long-term fading range is substantially less than expected for tropospheric scatter paths of comparable length. Transmission loss levels were in general agreement with predicted knife-edge diffraction propagation when allowance is made for rounding of the knife edge. A technique for estimating long-term fading ranges is presented and the results are in good agreement with observations. Short-term variations in some cases resemble the space-wave fadeouts commonly observed on within-the-horizon paths, although other phenomena may contribute to the fading. Since the foreground terrain was rough, there was no evidence of direct and ground-reflected lobe structure. In most cases comparatively high correlation exists between signals received simultaneously on two antennas with 8.3 and 14 meters vertical separation. These separations were chosen as being representative for practical space diversity systems designed for eliminating the effects of fading arising from direct and ground reflected phase interference phenomena. The comparatively high correlation observed suggests that space diversity will be relatively less successful in mountain obstacle paths with rough terrain near the terminals than on tropospheric scatter paths or on line-of-sight paths over smooth terrain. The enhancement of field strength associated with propagation over mountain ridges may cause concern in applications where mountains are being counted on to shield unwanted radio waves. Some radio astronomy installations have been located in mountain valleys for this reason, and it is possible that obstacle-gain effects may aggravate rather than alleviate interference."
"A mathematical analysis of the logarithmically periodic dipole class of frequency independent antennas, which takes into account the mutual coupling between dipole elements, is described. A high speed digital computer (ILLIAC) is used to calculate the input impedance gain, and bandwidth, as well as the input current and voltage of the several elements. The results from this mathematical model are shown to be in good agreement with measurements. A step by step procedure, which enables one to design a log-periodic dipole antenna over a wide range of the parameters of input impedance, bandwidth, gain, and antenna size is presented."
"Experiments were carried out at 106 and 206 megacycles to demonstrate that E layer ionospheric scatter signals can be obtained at VHF when transmission geometry satisfies specularity with the Earth's magnetic field. A burst type signal is found to be a daily occurrence. The bursts last about ten or twenty seconds and are further distinguished from the fractional second meteor bursts by a rapid fading from onset. H scatter correlates well diurnally and seasonally with sporadic meteor activity. At oblique incidence receiving sites with favorable geometry, the H scatter duty cycle is much larger than can be obtained from the normal meteor bursts."
"Accurate phase comparison of signals received at two or more widely separated points becomes exceedingly difficult at distances greater than a few hundred wavelengths. A relatively simple solution has been developed using closed-loop compensation of transmission medium irregularities to maintain fixed phase relationships between remote sites. In principle, the output,K_{1}, of a local oscillator at one of the stations is locked in phase to the received signal,K_{s}, and a reference signalK_{r};(K_{1} = K_{s} - K_{r}).K_{1}is also transmitted to a central site (becomingK_{1}'), where another oscillator output,K_{2}, is locked to it(K_{2} = K_{1}').K_{2}is transmitted back to the receiving site (becomingK_{2}') and, mixed withK_{1}, generates the previously mentioned reference signal (K_{2}' - K_{1} = K_{r}). The phase of the signal at the central site,K_{2}, then bears a known phase relationship with the received signal,K_{s}. Several such systems using a common central site thus provide a means for transmitting phase coherent signals from many remote sites to one central site. Conversely, the system can be used to transmit phase coherent signals to several remote sites from one central site. The scheme has obvious advantages in both receiving and transmitting (or both) systems which require effective antenna apertures of thousands of wavelengths. The signal transfer takes place at carrier frequency and does not require additional low frequency data links. A mathematical analysis of the system is given, including sources of error and parameters limiting the ultimate accuracy. This accuracy is determined by the number of wavelengths between sites and the information bandwidth required. With proper design, the phase-lock loops incorporated in the system will introduce negligible phase errors for reasonably stable carrier frequencies. A multivibrator phase detector is particularly suited to the method and will provide a coherent system with a noise bandwidth determined by the \"post-detection\" bandwidth. Design criteria are derived for given system tolerances. A sample design problem is solved for a 75,000-wavelength path, in the 2200-mc band. Experimental results show a phase uncertainty of much less than one electrical degree under these conditions. The system is composed of conventional circuitry and can be easily adapted to any frequency range."
"New and generalized expressions for the array factor of all physically realizable linear antenna arrays with progressive phase shifts are introduced. Based on these generalized expressions, a new way of synthesizing arrays with equal side lobes is available. It applies equally well to both broadside and endfire arrays, which may have either even or odd number of elements with unrestricted element spacing. No manipulations with transcendental functions are necessary, and the final expressions show a clear relationship between element excitations and null locations in the radiation pattern. Directive gain can be calculated directly from the array factor. Pattern optimization and sensitivity problems are discussed and typical examples are presented."
"A planar array is a known arrangement of signal receiving elements upon a plane; the element outputs are combined linearly after suitable processing at each element. This paper examines the directional sensitivity of a planar array excited by one or more broadband sources when nonlinear signal processing occurs. I shall discuss the effects of: I) source spectrum and signal processing upon the directional sensitivity; II) perturbations in element position and gain upon performance; III) hard limiting upon signal-to-noise ratio, directional sensitivity, and angular estimation with several sources."
"Comprehensive tests and analysis have been made of a novel form of top loading for monopole antennas of about 0.03 wavelength electric height. The configuration has some advantages over the usual types of electrically small antennas, especially for high-power applications in the VLF to HF ranges. Since the helical top load resonates the entire structure, the supporting tower (and guy wires, if used) may be grounded, eliminating many high-voltage problems. Low-impedance coaxial transmission lines may be conveniently matched by tapping the helix, or in a number of other ways. Results are given for 20- and 200-foot models operating at 1500 and 150 kc, respectively. Parameters of bandwidth, efficiency and power handling capability have been extrapolated to other sizes and frequencies, including a 2000-foot design for VLF."
"This paper describes a vertically-polarized, unidirectional, frequency-independent antenna that utilizes its image to reduce its maximum height to 1/4 wavelength at its lowest operating frequency rather than the 1/2-wavelength dimension that has been necessary in other types of log periodic antennas. This relatively small dimension makes this antenna particularly desirable for use in the lower portion of the h-f spectrum as well as in other frequency ranges where frequency-independent operation must be coupled with small size. The frequency-independent properties of the antenna are produced by a unique arrangement of reactive elements which introduce additional degress of freedom in the design. Radiation pattern and phase center data are given as a function of the usual log periodic parameters. In addition, design data is given that allows the designer to control the antenna characteristic impedance and vswr by adjusting the additional parameters. Techniques that are necessary to ensure proper operation are discussed. Finally, the measured vswr of an antenna designed to operate from 4 to 20 mc is presented."
"Presents the foreword editorial to the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Lists discussions sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists discussions sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"The DC characteristic of tunnel diodes may be explained by splitting up the total current into three fractions. Electrons pass the junction from the valence band of the n-region (Zener current) and in reverse direction (Esaki current). At a high enough forward bias, minority carrier injection will be appreciable. This current may be proportional to the summation of qV/kT provided the influence of recombination centers in the depletion layer can be neglected. Irradiation by fast neutrons will increase the number of recombination centers and will therefore increase the valley currents. It will also be noted that the tunneling process is complicated by phonon interaction and by states for electrons within the forbidden gap."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents  information on the  opening session of the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1961 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"The NEURlSTOR, derived from neuron, is a term assigned to a class of structures that exhibits attenuationless signal propagation, as in the attenuationless propagation of the chemical burning zone along a simple fuse, or the attenuationless propagation of the ionic discharge along the axon of a nerve fiber. Totally distributed, one-dimensional electronic lines, exhibiting such a propagation mode, can also be realized. Attenuationless propagation represents no violation of energy conservation since, as the signal propagates, energy flows transversely into the line. A line consists essentially of a distributed, triggerable active element arranged so that when any portion of line is triggered, some or all of the locally available energy is converted into a form suitable for triggering the neighboring section of line. Thus, in a chemical fuse, if the temperature at any point passes threshold the resulting combustion generates a local temperature rise sufficient to activate the adjacent section of line. Although a fuse is a one-time device, the axon heals after each discharge and can be used an indefinite number of times. In conformity with the terminology of neurophysiologists, the period of healing, or recovery, is referred to as the refractory period."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers.\""
"A transmission-type wattmeter can be formed utilizing the Hall effect to give wide-range multiplication over a frequency range extending from the low audio-frequency region to the SHF band. At the low frequencies, the Hall device can take the form of a thin wafer of indium antimonide mounted in series with the center leg of a cup core magnetic circuit. An audio-frequency wattmeter employing such a structure has been analyzed, constructed and tested. The wattmeter has a range of zero to 400 milliwatts when used in a 600-ohm circuit, and displays a frequency error of less than plus and minus 3.5 per cent over a frequency range of 100 to 6000 cps for a unity power factor load. In the SHF range, a cavity and electric probe are arranged to provide excitation for the indium antimonide wafer in the manner first employed by Barlow. The cavity, about one wavelength long, is separated from the waveguide in which power flow is to be measured by a thin brass wall, and is coupled to the waveguide by a rectangular slot in the top wall of the waveguide. The semiconductor wafer is placed in the center of the cavity, at a position having a maximum in magnetic field and a minimum in electric field for a given cavity excitation value. The electric probe, which extends from the cavity to the waveguide, provides excitation current for the semiconductor element. Three tuning adjustments are required, two for the cavity and one for the probe. A wattmeter embodying this technique has been found to provide a sensitivity of one dc microvolt per milliwatt of transmitted power at a frequency of 9.40 Gc."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The effects of track width on various performance characteristics have been measured over a wide range of widths. Signal level, noise, and signal-to-noise ratio were determined for track widths from 1.1 mils to 92 mils. The effects of crosstalk, actual recorded track width vs head width, and tape guiding, are described. The experimental data are in good agreement with theory, and no serious practical limitations on the use of very narrow tracks were discovered. High-density audio and pulse recordings were made without difficulty. Digital bit densities of one million per square inch and above are shown to be possible."
"In motional feedback the mechanical vibrations of the loudspeaker cone are the source of the feedback voltage. Feedback then improves the over-all response characteristic and reduces the total distortion. The theory of this method is presented here in a simplified, though enlightening, way. The treatment is based on an unorthodox theorem on impedance conversion by feedback."
"Designed to drive two transistor-power amplifiers previously described, this preamplifier contains all the controls necessary for stereophonic and monophonic programs. The first two of the three stages form a complementary circuit readily adaptable for the various input sources, which provides the necessary gain and equalization for low-level phonograph and tape inputs, guard voltages to reduce the capacitive effects of the input cables, and impedance transformation for high-level inputs from tuners and other tube circuitry. Loudness control is achieved by the combined effect of variable negative feedback and a novel tone-control arrangement. The frequency range, including the power amplifiers, extends from below 6 cycles to above 50 kilocycles per second."
"Following the teaching of the early Bell Telephone Laboratories' experiments in auditory perspective, wide speaker spacing is needed to realize accuracy of geometry. This results in substantially random phase, so that polarity is relatively unimportant. This is supported by Lissajous figures of two-channel stereo signals. It is still good practice, however, to observe polarities, if for no other reason than to permit monophonic reproduction over a stereophonic array. Where the stereo signals contain a strong monophonic component, correct system polarity is better than random polarity. In some stereo situations, bass is improved by correct polarities."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers.\""
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper describes a two-way 500-cycle crossover loudspeaker system using the infinite baffle principle. A 300-cubic-foot volume is used. Two identical systems are spaced 15 feet apart for stereo reproduction. A description of the living-room architectural acoustics is included. There are no parallel walls or surfaces, and the splay of the side walls is a minimum of one inch per foot. Reverberation decay charts are provided for different frequencies to indicate the effect of the splayed walls. Sine wave and warble tone curves are shown and sine wave single-frequency levels are plotted for the width and length of the room."
"This paper presents a method of measuring intermodulation distortion produced by a nonlinear system operating in the audio-frequency spectrum. The design of the measuring device is based upon the Hall principle. Transistorized circuitry is used throughout. Both the circuitry employed and the theory of operation are discussed. The instrument is simple to operate and permits the measurement of intermodulation distortion at any frequency on a point-by-point basis within the range of 400 to 20,000 cps. Distortion measurements may be made in two ranges; zero to one per cent and zero to five per cent."
"Despite the appeal of the visual arts, all persons turn naturally to sound for the rapid, thorough, and precise transmission of both practical and esthetic information. Communications acoustics deals with this flow of acoustic information, and with controlling noise that might interfere with it."
"The nonlinear modulation characteristic of a transistor is approached by the first terms of a Taylor-series formula and the output voltage is calculated for a suitably-chosen ac-input voltage. For higher frequencies and different working points, the influence of the diffusion capacity and the emitter admittance are illustrated by experimental results. It is shown that--as in electronic tubes-the third-order distortions (harmonic distortion, distortion of modulation, alteration of the degree of amplitude modulation, degree of cross modulation) are closely connected, but unlikethe situation in electronic tubes, the distortions disappear at a special working point. The influence of the base resistance and the internal resistance of the signal source are discussed in relation to the appearance of this zero point and the frequency dependence. In an RF amplifier a transistor is modulated, for example, only by a part of the resonant circuit voltage because of the low input resistance in a grounded emitter circuit. Although this voltage transformation is accounted for, the transistor is inferior to the electronic tube with respect to cross modulation. To reduce the cross modulation in a transistor RF stage, two possibilities are described for correcting the distortions with a fixed or controlled working point using a predistortion or a push-pull modulation. In this case the different influences of a resistance in the base lead, or of a resistance blocked for HF but not for LF in the emitter lead, are discussed."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers.\""
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Investigation, both theoretically and experimentally, was made into the mode of operation of cathode followers and feedback amplifiers with high-capacitance loads. The capacitance loaded cathode follower compares unfavorably with the resistance loaded cathode follower, particularly regarding operation with fluctuating input signals. Input overdrive of a capacitance loaded cathode follower causes production of transient voltages in the output circuit. Threshold of input overdrive is considerably lower than in resistance loaded cathode followers, especially at high audio frequencies. Also, harmonic distortion is increased at high frequencies and high-frequency response drops off. Experimental analysis of the voltage relations between the input and output circuits was made, and guides for design were developed. It was found that a symmetrical Eg-Ipcurve is the most important factor in development of a cathode follower for driving high-capacitance loads where transient distortion is to be avoided."
"Practices utilized in producing a stereo recording are discussed relative to the performance of stereo-sound reinforcement systems. The reproduction of these recordings results in an enhanced stereo effect."
"Some two-channel stereo systems have employed a third full-range speaker system in the center, reproducing an equal in-phase mixture of the signals in the two channels. Advantages of this arrangement over the usual two-speaker array are better reproduction of the location and size of central sound sources. A disadvantage is the sizeable reduction in the apparent spread, or distance between flanking sources. The reasons for these effects are discussed, and it is indicated that this disadvantage can be largely overcome by electrically reducing the ratio of sum to difference of the two channels, which ratio was effectively increased by the addition of the center speaker. It is shown that the signals to the three speakers may be regarded as three, independent channels with certain signal-to-crosstalk ratios, which are derived as a function of the level of the center speaker and the amount of electrical reduction of the sum-to-difference ratio. The choice of optimum parameter values and appropriate circuits is discussed."
"The response of a loudspeaker to sudden starts and stops of its input signal is analyzed both theoretically and experimentally. Transient distortion occurs when the acoustic output level does not change as suddenly as the input signal. Waveforms of loudspeaker response to various input signals are shown, and a method for plotting a continuous transient response curve is described. The curves indicate a correlation exists between a speaker's steady-state frequency response and its transient performance. It was found that little correlation exists between the transient performance of a loudspeaker and musical listening tests. Two explanations are given. One discusses how the psychoacoustic performance of the ear tends to make it insensitive to the shape of the wave envelope of a tone burst. Another relates how echoes in the usual listening room tend to mask the hangover transient of the loudspeaker."
"This paper describes a low-noise two-transistor pre-amplifier which has been developed for use with microphones. For a source resistance of 1000 Ω, a noise figure of 1.3 db has been achieved. A corresponding middle-frequency gain of 40 db, bandwidth of 30 kc and output impedance of 175 Ω resulted."
"A central feature of the new design of a stereo amplifier is an output transformer with original features that makes possible reduced cost and improved performance at the same time. This paper discusses a varied possibility of design objectives for a stereo system, and explains the way in which the new output transformer functions. By variation in its method of use, or in choice of parameters, a whole range of amplifiers can apply advantages in different proportions or degrees. The basic design of an output transformer, which is essentially inexpensive to make, provides for separation between \"left\" and \"right\" as well as crossover, and combining networks for mixed lows, if desired, without additional external circuits. It makes possible a new type of tone control, achieving high performance economically, using feedback, and/or improved matching between amplifier and loudspeakers over the entire frequency range as well as better separation and efficiency than the single-ended and push-pull transformer matrix can give. One particular amplifier is discussed in detail, while a more general discussion shows possible application to more diverse design objectives."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers.\""
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Spectral compensation is usually achieved with equalizers cascaded so as to generate a desired response. In the concept of linear interpolation, a series of points are located along the desired response and linear interpolation provided between adjacent points. This is accomplished with contiguous band-pass filters arranged so as to minimize the effect of filter crossover. The performance limitations depend upon the filter characteristics, crossover ripple, and the type of response to be equalized. This approach to compensation has two advantages. First, automatic control of the spectrum can be achieved when the input signal is a random noise voltage. Second, discreet points on the frequency axis permit control using digital techniques. Data is presented for some cases of peak-notch resonances encountered in acoustic and vibration systems."
"Further consideration is given to basic amplitude limitations which may apply to the complementary distortion method of nonlinear distortion correction. It is found, in disagreement with others, that points at which the differential gain is zero or infinite do not limit the amplitude over which complete correction is possible but that relative maxima, minima, gain zeros, and infinite-gain points in the characteristic do set limitations when the usual simply connected tandem configuration is employed. When the characteristic to be corrected is multiple valued or passes through points of zero or infinite gain within a given amplitude range, a multiply connected correction circuit must be used for perfect correction of distortion over the amplitude range in question."
"This device provides for control of the high-frequency content of an audio program, allowing the operator to choose independently: 1) the frequency above which equalization is to occur, and 2) the maximum correction in signal strength which results in the range of frequencies under correction. Three operating controls are used. One control determines whether the high-frequency signals shall be increased, left unchanged, or decreased in strength relative to the low-frequency signals. A second control is calibrated in terms of the frequency above which correction shall occur. The third control adjusts the asymptote which represents the maximum correction which shall occur for frequencies considerably higher than that chosen by the frequency control described above. The circuit can be described briefly as follows: for high-frequency attenuation, the operation employs a negative feedback amplifier whose output may have high-frequency loss inserted by an RC network following the amplifier; for high-frequency boost, the RC network is inserted in the amplifier feedback path so that the amplifier output (which now becomes the system output) has a rising high-frequency response which corresponds to the attenuation of the RC network. All three controls are continuously adjustable within their ranges of operation."
"A discrepancy between the \"apparent bass\" response heard by the average music listener and anechoic-chamber measurements has been noted for some small loudspeaker systems. This may be caused by the psychoacoustic response to the generation of harmonic distortion by the nonlinear suspension and the inhomogeneous flux gap density in a small speaker. An electrical analog, with controllable distortion, of such a speaker has been subjected to listener tests and evaluation to determine if this is the cause of the apparent bass effect. An analysis of the listener reactions to various music stimuli through the system indicates that this is the case."
"Any noisy amplifier can be represented by an equivalent noiseless amplifier plus two noise generators either at the input or the output of the amplifier. The choice of two particular noise generators (the equivalent short-circuit noise voltage and the open-circuit noise current) to characterize a noisy amplifier has a number of advantages over the concept of noise figure. The noise generators can easily be measured separately from the source noise, and the optimum source impedance and the noise figure at any source impedance can then be calculated. Since the amplifier noise is measured separately from the source noise, low noise figures can be easily measured. The optimum source impedance equals the quotient of the two noise generators, and the noise figure depends upon their product. Neither feedback nor input impedance is a consideration in determining noise figure and optimum source impedance. Several transistor noise diagrams show how the two noise generators are affected by emitter current, collector voltage, and frequency. Noise diagrams can be used to select the most suitable amplifying devices and optimum operating conditions for various applications."
"It appears that the controversy is still alive over whether average reading or root-mean-square reading meters should be specified as standard for the measurement of noise. This being the case, it is worthwhile to consider the entire subject from the standpoint of basic fundamentals, to determine what are the significant quantities involved, and then proceed to investigate which type of meter yields the most significant results. The following is the result of such an investigation. The entire discussion rests on 1) an axiom, that energy transfer is the fundamental interaction within the universe, and 2) a premise, that for the type of measurements under discussion (audio), all significant processes are linear. Given these two starting points, the conclusion is reached that the meaningful quantities are found by rms measurements. It is shown further, by concrete example, that measurements made with average reading meters can depart widely from those made with an rms meter. This being the case, it is necessary that measurement standards specify the use of rms meters. Those who elect to use average meters, then, bear the responsibility of determining the accuracy of their results in terms of the fundamentally important quantities."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers.\""
"Magnetic recording is a complicated process which has in the past been portrayed largely in terms of models based upon the magnetic characteristics of the recording medium. The previous models have been incomplete and sometimes incorrect, and they have left unexplained many of the experimental phenomena known to exist in magnetic recording. The proposed new model is not claimed to be precise in every detail. However, it has the virtue of presenting a unified and simplified picture of magnetic recording. The recording process is viewed as an interaction between the idealized properties of magnetic particles and the idealized geometry of the recording field. The latter appears as a series of \"bubbles\" and \"shells\" of critical field strengths which grow and collapse throughout the cycles of bias and record current."
"Magnetic recording of the sine waves of all wavelengths is analyzed. The analysis shows that the recording process consists of two types of phenomena: 1) a virtual input scanning-the remanant tape magnetization (the recording point) appears at the front gap edge and moves over the gap towards the rear gap edge each half period. Thus, the tape is magnetically \"scanned\" by the input gap field in the direction opposite the tape motion. 2) A particular type of interference-as the half wavelength of tape passes over the gap, the input field will generally reverse polarity at least once. Thus, the different \"scannings\" on the same tape section will interfere with each other timewise. The net effect of these processes, even with the initial magnetization curve linear, is to produce a distorted tape magnetization output. The results clearly indicate that for longer wavelengths there is the greatest amount of distortion, but no amplitude attenuation or phase shift. Furthermore, in this wavelength region the recording is done over the entire gap. For smaller wavelengths, the reverse holds true; that is, there is a decreasing amount of distortion and an increasing attenuation and phase shifting. Also, the shorter the wavelength, the closer to the front gap edge is the recording point. It is also found that there is a theoretical lower limit to the wavelength that can be recorded and that at very short wavelengths the shape of the gap trailing field becomes most significant. The fact that increasing oversaturation at the shorter wavelengths decreases instead of increases the net tape magnetization is also explained."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The mechanism of ac-biased magnetic recording is directly related to the physical and magnetic properties of the recording medium. A theory has been developed which describes this relationship, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The action of ac bias on a single-domain particle is examined, and the factors determining its remanent state are analyzed. When the analysis is extended to an aggregate of such particles, it is found that the interaction fields created by the particles themselves are responsible for the biased recording mechanism. The transfer characteristic obtained with ac biasing is derived directly from the distribution of interaction fields in the aggregate material."
"Among the sources of error in magnetic tape recording, one of the more important is the distortion of the reproduced time scale generally described by the term \"flutter.\" Flutter is defined as the deviation in reproduced frequency from the original recorded frequency, which results from nonuniform speed of the recording medium during recording and reproduction. The present paper provides a qualitative and quantitative discussion of flutter including: 1) Causes-eccentricities, resonances, frictional variations. 2) Effects-FM noise, AM' noise, time displacement error. 3) Measurements-methods, units and relations between them. 4) Compensation-methods and limitations. The object of the paper is to collect the essential characteristics of flutter in a way that will be of value to users of magnetic tape recording equipment."
"This paper concerns a multichannel magnetic tape recorder/reproducer whose primary function is to provide stable, real-time multiplication (100 times) of all frequencies present at the input. This is accomplished by the use of rotating playback head assembly, located near and \"downstream\" of a conventional record station. This arrangement yields a short processing delay and, because of the iterative scans, makes possible time division multiplexing of other system components. System requirements and characteristics are presented along with a discussion of the major engineering problems that had to be solved."
"Information storage density in bits per cubic centimeter are compared for various media including magnetic tape, phonograph records, photographic film, the human nervous system, and biological genetics. Magnetic recording is on a par with other man-made systems; but all of these are poorer by many orders of magnitude than genetics. An analogy between contact printing of tapes and genetic replication shows the superiority of the latter. Factors which limit the ultimate density of magnetic recording are discussed: gap-length, straightness, shunt effect, azimuth; tape surface, stability, particle size; head-tape contact, drive stability; amplifier noise, and demagnetization."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes the theory and performance of a dual channel transistor power amplifier capable of developing 30 watts in each channel with less than 1% intermodulation distortion. Full power is developed at frequencies below 20 cycles per second. Detailed transformer construction and amplifier assembly information is presented along with a list of parts and purchasing information."
"Good audio sound quality in stereophonic reproduction may be summarized in the \"eight cardinal points of loudspeakers,\" which are: 1) minimal distortion, 2) optimum size, 3) avoidance of rattles, 4) avoidance of shadows, 5) avoidance of cavities, 6) wide spacing, 7) proper number, and 8) toe-in."
"Electronic devices are widely used to introduce in sound signals an artificial reverberation subjectively similar to that caused by multiple reflections in a room. Attention is focused on those devices employing delay loops. Usually, these devices have a comb-like frequency response which adds an undesired \"color\" to the sound quality. Also, for a given reverberation time, the density of echoes is far below that encountered in a room, giving rise to a noticeable flutter effect in transient sounds. A class of all-pass filters is described which may be employed in cascade to obtain \"colorless\" reverberation with high echo density."
"This paper presents an enumerative bibliography of the literature on the automation of speech from 1950-1960. The key developments in this area are presented in the introduction. The eventual goal is the fully automated speaking machine. Selections for the bibliography include significant corporate documents, periodical literature and abstracts of research."
"This paper presents a simple method for predicting the power required for audio, AM, DSBSC, and SSB speech communication systems which are peak-power limited and are operating in the presence of \"white\" Gaussian noise. The effects of simple speech processing such as pre-emphasis, filtering, volume compression, symmetrical peak clipping, and frequency translation are considered both singly and in combination. The method is based on empirical data and is directly applicable to many practical speech communication problems encountered by the radio engineer."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A new method of focusing a hollow cylindrical electron beam is presented. The focusing system consists of a cylindrical center conductor inside the beam, a cylindrical outer conductor enclosing the beam, and a series of periodic magnets outside the tube. A radial electrostatic field between the conductors provides an outward force on the electrons. The periodic magnetic field produces an inward force on the electrons. The inward and outward forces can be adjusted to provide a balance of all the forces acting on the electrons at both boundaries of the beam by choosing the electric and magnetic fields properly. An approximate analysis has been made and is presented which gives necessary design information. A number of curves are presented which are useful in designing focusing systems of this type. Experimental results on a beam tester show that current transmission of over 90 per cent for perveance up to 11 micropervs can be obtained readily. The adjustments are not critical and the performance is very stable."
"A coaxially packaged transistor capable of delivering greater than 11 db of power gain at 1000 Mc, with a resultant maximum frequency of oscillation of 3500 Mc, has been developed. This device is a p-n-p micro-alloy diffused-base transistor (MADT). The principal difference between this device and a standard high-frequency MADT amplifier is the reduction of electrode size and use of a coaxial construction. The parasitic elements, rb', and emitter and collector transition capacities, have very striking effects. Also, the excess phase of alpha at alpha cutoff, as described by Thomas and Moll, can be very large (150° on this device); for this reason, fTrather than fcαshould be used as the figure of merit for graded-base transistors. Because of this excess phase, the value of K(0.85 for homogeneous-base transistors), which is used to relate fTto fcα, can be as low as 0.43 in graded-base transistors of this type."
"Intrinsic common-base, short-circuit current gain analysis of drift transistors may be aided by means of a simplified approximation equation. The accuracy of the equation may be controlled by the investigator. A graphic solution for determining this parameter of moderate drift field transistors may be obtained by using the arcs of circles. The interrelation between the graphic analysis and the theoretic approximation provides a flexible yet accurate method of analyzing this parameter."
"The dynamic properties of drift and diffussion transistors are studied under both low- and high-level injection conditions in terms of the excess carrier charge in the base region. Subject to the assumptions of effectively one-dimensional device geometry with exponential impurity grading and collector conductivity much greater than that of the base, methods of determination of the main physical and high-frequency equivalent-circuit parameters of transistors are presented, utilizing the bias dependence of excess carrier charge in the base and space charge in the collector-depletion region. It is shown that measurement of the base transit time and the junction capacitances under low-level injection conditions enables the following physical parameters to be determined: base field parameterm = \\DeltaV/(kT/q), base width, base impurity distribution, emitter area, collector-depletion layer width. All the measurements are carried out at relatively low frequencies. Solutions for the base charge distribution, and hence charge-defined transit time, have been derived for the cases of exponential and erfc impurity grading under high-level injection conditions, assuming one-dimensional device geometry, constant base cross-sectional area, andDand\\microindependent of injection level. Experimental results have been found to differ greatly from the theoretical expectations based on these assumptions, the drift transistor showing greater and the diffusion transistor less than the predicted dependence on injection level. Explanations for the observed effects have been put forward in terms of reduction of emitter area and ofDand\\microat high injection levels."
"The starting conditions for the O-type backward-wave oscillator are computed for large values of C, QC and d, using both digital and analog methods. A general method of solving complex polynomials called the \"downhill\" method is applied both to the secular equation and then to the RF voltage equation to obtain starting conditions. The analog computer is used to solve simultaneously, by trial and error method, the linear circuit and ballistic differential equations. The analog method is applied to the modulated BWO in order to determine the effects of modulations on the starting conditions. Extensive calculations of BWO starting conditions have been made for a wide range of C, QC and d."
"Electrostatic electron beam couplers can be used in conjunction with a parametric amplifier to produce low-noise electron beam amplification. The characteristics and design of both traveling-wave and resonant couplers are considered. The latter are broader-band and shorter than the traveling-wave version; however, the traveling-wave coupler does not require critical load adjustment and is electrically tunable. An important advantage of the electrostatic fast-wave coupler over the magnetic version considered by Cuccia is the elimination of the magnetic field."
"This paper describes a theoretical and experimental investigation of a special form of a three-cavity klystron amplifier having shorted sections of a slow-wave structure as resonators. Although the behavior basically is similar to that of a narrow-gap klystron, improved performance is obtained due to distributed interaction and higher cavity characteristic impedance. Higher efficiency and larger gain-bandwidth product, as predicted by theory, were observed experimentally with a pulsed S-band distributed klystron operated at a maximum beam voltage of 22 kv and a beam current of 3.5 amperes. Saturation efficiencies of approximately 50 per cent at 18 db gain and 2 per cent half-power bandwidth, and small-signal gain of 40 db at 0.5 per cent bandwidth, were measured. Small-signal behavior is in good agreement with the space-charge-wave theory. At large-signal levels, experimental results and simplified kinematic theories agree qualitatively."
"The laws governing thermal radiation are briefly reviewed and methods of measuring emissivity are described. The apparatus used by the author is described and an account of possible sources of error is given. Results of other workers are quoted wherever available, and the thermal emissivity over the useful working temperature range is given for the following materials. Metals Iron Molybdenum Nickel Tantalum Tungsten Gold Silver Platinum Alloys Nichrome Nimonic Moly-Tungsten Other Surfaces BaO-SrO on Nickel Carbonized Nickel Titania on Nickel Titania on Iron Aluminized Iron Titanium Hydride on Molybdenum Zirconium Preparations on Ni, Mo and Fe. Alumina Carbon"
"A magnetic-field pickup has been developed utilizing the Hall effect in intermetallic semiconductors. Unlike a loop pickup, the sensor responds to magnetic flux density and thus is independent of frequency. Due to its extremely small size, it makes possible the measurement of magnetic fields in constricted regions. When used in conjunction with ferrite flux collectors, its sensitivity is 10-7gauss in the range of 30 cps to 15 kc. Details of design and construction are given."
"Equations are derived to express the ac potential difference and the transformation of fluctuations of velocity and current between two arbitrary planes along an accelerating crossed-field electron stream. The system of equations, after being simplified by the assumption of zero total ac current, is applied to the special cases of the temperature-limited diode, the space-charge-limited diode, and a diode in which the beam enters with appreciable average velocity. Finally, the open-circuit equations are applied to an approximate model of a beam in a crossed-field electron gun. A new mechanism of growth, peculiar to the crossed-field beam, is discussed as a possible explanation of the observed large sole current in beam-type magnetron amplifiers and related devices."
"Three diffusion processes are used to analyze the transistor behavior in Region III. This leads to a new equivalent circuit representation which is a superposition of the active-state and saturation-state models. Saturation state of the transistor is understood here as a state in which both emitter and collector junctions are so biased to obtain an uniform distribution of the minority carriers in the base. Saturation can be treated separately and be represented by a new independent model. Transient analysis made on these models, representing saturation and active states, leads us to the storage and decay phenomena, and storage and decay times agree with those calculated by others."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Some of the fundamental properties of multiple BWO's are examined in terms of a simple model. The starting conditions are found for both low and high space-charge conditions and particularly for the case in which there is a small difference between the velocities of the separate beams. The latter results are used to discuss the tolerances which must be met in multiple BWO's. Experiments carried out at X band provide some qualitative confirmation of the theory."
"Recently, the parametric amplifier has merited attention because of its low-noise characteristics. A novel diode has been designed which is suitable for use in a parametric amplifier. The diode is a bonded type and is composed of a silver-gallium whisker and an N-type germanium. The cutoff frequency of the silver bonded diode is higher than 150 kMc. The parametric amplifier was made using these diodes at 6 kMc and 11 kMc, and stable gain of more than 20 db was obtained. The noise figures were approximately 5 db and 6.5 db at 6 kMc and 11 kMc, respectively."
"Highly linear amplification can be obtained with HF diffused-base transistors in the common base configuration. It is the purpose of this paper to 1) present experimental results to demonstrate this, 2) demonstrate the causes for this high degree of linearity and derive expressions for optimum bias voltages and currents (these results can be extended with certain restrictions to the common emitter and common collector configurations), and 3) present a general method for analytically treating nonlinearity in all transistor configurations. A push-pull amplifier using 2N509- or 2N1195-type transistors provided 13 db of gain, with signal-to-distortion ratios of 70 to 80 db for broad-band white noise signals with +3 dbm of average output power or sine wave signals with +15-dbm peak output power. The stability of this gain and linearity with temperature and interchange of transistors is high. This high degree of linearity is shown to be due to 1) cancellation of current sensitive nonlinearity in the emitter and collector resistances, 2) collector voltage bias adjusted so that the derivative of the collector conductance with respect to collector voltage is zero, and 3) the use of a high alpha cutoff frequency transistor. An expression derived for optimum bias was in good agreement with experiment. The nonlinear distortion in transistors is shown to be different from that found in most devices, in that there are frequency-sensitive and frequency-insensitive nonlinearities. A general analysis carried out including these terms was in good qualitative agreement with experiment."
"In this paper, the problems of producing a general simulator model of a parametric amplifier are discussed. This model is to be simple, accurate, and applicable to many forms of parametric amplifiers. A brief discussion of the theory behind parametric amplification is followed by proposals for three models. Each of these is discussed in terms of its limitations and applications. The results of tests on two of these models are presented, and these results are discussed. Some emphasis is placed on the most sucessful of the models, which has been used to simulate a subharmonic oscillator."
"The reverse transient behavior of junction diodes after a rectangular pulse of forward current is analyzed and the results verified experimentally. Based on the simplified planar diode model and the diffusion equation, equations are obtained to determine the reverse recovery current and voltage as functions of carrier lifetime and circuit parameters. The transient behavior of both the open circuit and the closed circuit conditions are shown to be described by some set of equations, and the presently unrelated explanations are unified. The relation between the charge stored by forward current and the charge recovered by reverse current is then derived. These equations are confirmed with an accuracy of 5 per cent or better by experimental data from germinium and silicon alloyed diodes. Several applications on measurements of diode material properties and on circuit applications (diode amplifiers, modulators, etc.) are suggested."
"The mechanism of detection in a passive reflex klystron is discussed qualitatively on the basis of elementary space-charge theory with emphasis on the character of the anoderepeller potential distribution necessary for detection. Tabulation of tangential sensitivities obtained using several different tube types is included, together with other experimental data. It is shown that there is a possibility of using reflex klystrons as tunable detectors at frequencies where crystal diode performance is relatively poor."
"A study is made to determine analytically the time variation of the terminal voltage of a p-n junction in response to a terminal current which starts with a large forward value and continues to decrease linearly until the reverse saturation is attained. It is shown that the period between the reversal of current and the reversal of voltage depends exclusively on the lifetime, diffusion length, and thermal equilibrium densities of minority carriers in both regions of the junction. For some cases, the period between the reversal of current and voltage reduces to half the lifetime of either of the two types of minority carriers. This property allows measuring the lifetime of minority carriers for certain p-n junctions by relatively simple means."
"Harris flow is one of a number of equilibrium electron beams requiring a launching method which imparts angular momentum to the stream. Immersion of the electron gun region in a magnetic field tangent to the cathode and orthogonal to the electron trajectories provides a means of rotation free of the defocusing and discontinuity effects of previous methods. Centrifugal-force spreading is eliminated by electric-field compensation in the gun. This compensation results in field lines at an angle to the stream edges and necessitates gun electrode design by a curvilinear flow method. An immersed gun of this kind has produced a stable Harris flow beam containing 86 per cent of the total energy in rotational motion. Anode transmission is in excess of 95 per cent."
"An anomalous flicker effect is observed in tubes with oxide-coated cathodes if the grid bias is near zero volts. The time constant deduced from the noise spectrum is of the order of 10-2second. The magnitude of the noise increases strongly with increasing temperature. It is impossible to detect individual noise pulses. It is proposed that the noise is caused by individual positive ions emitted by the cathode and trapped in the space charge. The effect is similar to the anomalous flicker effect in tubes with tungsten cathodes; it differs in the time constant (10-2second instead of 10-4second) and in the magnitude of the ion pulses causing the effect (single ions or small numbers of ions instead of about 104ions per pulse)."
"The charge control concept of transistor operation is extended to include delay effects in an accurate, yet tractable, way. Defining the transit time τtas the ratio of the excess base charge to the collector current, the transform of the transit time τt(s) is approximated by\\tau_{t}(1 + S\\tau_{D}), where τDis the delay time. For a one-dimensional, homogeneous-base transistor,\\tau_{D} = \\tau_{t}/6. The results of this technique are in good agreement with exact calculations."
"The transfluxor is a new magnetic device for use in information handling and nondestructive storage systems. The location and sizes of each of the several apertures determine many of the operating characteristics of the device. This paper discusses the various geometric and magnetic factors that should be considered before deciding upon a core configuration. Two methods, one based on a graphical approach, the other on mathematics, are outlined to determine the optimum shape for a particular application. A procedure may be reversed to predict the performance of existing cores. The flux storage principles are described and the equation\\Phi_{s} = kI_{c} - k'is derived. This equation shows the relationship between the input current Icand the stored flux\\Phi_{s}. kandk'are design constants depending on the magnetic and physical properties of a core. Comparisons are made between a 346-mil (OD) core and one of 83 mils. Estimates are given as to the practical limits to which core miniaturization may be carried using existing fabrication methods."
"Two Esaki diodes can furnish unidirectional amplification when used in conjunction with a Hall-effect isolator. The input and output impedances of this amplifier are greater than the absolute value of the negative resistance of the diodes by a factor which is proportional to the voltage gain. The voltage gain-bandwidth product of such an amplifier isg_{T}/4\\piRC, where gTis determined by the isolator and RC is the usual RC time constant of the Esaki diodes. Typically, gTis between 0.1 and 1. If one of the diodes is removed, the remaining network still amplifies unilaterally, but the impedance at the diode-less end drops to that of the isolator alone. In addition, a Hall-effect gyrator or circulator can be made essentially lossless by the addition of Esaki diodes."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Electron-beam devices are considered in which a form of concentration modulation, as defined by Gabor, is utilized. In the devices described here a scalloped electron beam is produced by a combination of crossed electric fields and a magnetic field, and strikes a collector after passing through a fixed aperture (cf. Fig. 1). The points of minimum width of the scalloped beam are \"images\" of the cathode which are reproduced along the longitudinal axis of the system by virtue of the cyclotron motion of the electrons. The application of an additional alternating electric field, parallel to the fixed electric field, causes a periodic variation in the longitudinal position of the cathode images, giving rise to an alternating component in the current which reaches the collector. Concentration modulation is compared with other modulation methods. Transit-time limitations are evaluated and possible applications are considered, including frequency multiplication at microwave frequencies. The use of the concentration-modulation technique in modulating a high-density electron beam at audio frequencies in an experimental system is described."
"This paper describes the operation of a five-cavity klystron with distributed interaction using stagger-tuned cavities. A bandwidth of 64 Mc with a gain of about 30 db at 40 per cent efficiency is typical of the performance of the amplifier."
"In a ballistic analysis in which space-charge effects have been neglected, the method of describing the performance of re-entrant cavity resonators in terms of beam-coupling coefficients, beam-loading conductance ratios, the shunt impedance R, and the cavity quality factor Q has been generalized and extended for the treatment of any kind of resonator with electric fields of arbitrary spatial distribution. As one consequence, the properties of resonant helix sections and cavity resonators can be directly compared in terms of the same physical concepts."
"The subject of noise generation in certain types of RF amplifiers is treated. The different physical mechanisms by which noise is generated within the amplifier are discussed. Expressions for the \"effective source noise temperature\" are derived for distributed amplifiers of the maser, parametric, and tunnel type."
"The cyclotron waves on an electron beam in the pump field of the Adler tube are studied with respect to their circular polarization. It is found that positive and negative circularly polarized beam waves are coupled through the pump electric field. As a consequence of the coupling, the small signal traveling-wave analysis leads to the conclusion that the positive circularly polarized beam wave is comprised of the fast signal wave and all idlers of frequenciesn(\\omega \\pm \\omega_{p})where n is an even integer, while the negative circularly polarized wave is comprised of all idlers with odd integral values of n. This information appears to be new, and can perhaps be used to design input and output couplers which discriminate against unwanted idler waves."
"A specific bridge measurement technique is presented for measuring the important small-signal parameters of the tunnel diode at frequencies up to 100 Mc and at all significant operating levels. Particular attention is paid to the problem of biasing the tunnel diode to eliminate instability in the negative resistance region which would otherwise prevent significant measurements being made in this region. Requirements for stable bias circuits are analyzed in detail and specific criteria for stable operation given. A circle diagram method is presented which allows the significant parameters to be determined from a set of measurements made for a sequence of bias voltages, at a chosen frequency. From the results, curves of shunt capacitance and conductance as a function of bias voltage may be plotted. Measurements made using a Wayne Kerr Type B.801 VHF Admittance Bridge on a particular tunnel diode are presented. The experimentally determined capacitance vs voltage curve is found to agree closely with the theoretical curve of the normal junction diode, with no pecularities through the negative resistance region. Further results show that approximate parameter values may be obtained even when oscillatory or bistable behavior prevents satisfactory measurement in the negative resistance region."
"The four-terminal parameters of the Hall generator are derived and then used to develop expressions for input impedance, output impedance, current gain, and voltage gain. The theoretically determined expressions are then verified for a Hall generator using indium antimonide. The four-terminal equations are given as a function of conductivity, Hall constant, temperature, magnetic field, and dimensions of the material. Thus, the designer may use these expressions in the application of Hall-effect devices."
"High resolution and low drive features have been successfully combined in a new type of electron gun for cathode-ray tubes. The gun has a spot-defining aperture of 0.007 inch upon which emission from a large cathode area is concentrated by a retarding electron lens. This unit modulates the beam by electron reflection, while focusing it upon the aperture (\"Focus Reflex Modulation\"). Immediately ahead of the aperture, a modulated virtual cathode is formed with an emission capability of over four amperes per square centimeter. A1000-\\microa beam with a 6° divergence is controlled by a signal of 12 volts centered at ground potential. Highlight brigntness of 250 foot lamberts was read at 17,500 volts, while more than 500 lines were resolved on a television test pattern. In more recent forms of the FRM gun,1600 \\microa are measured in the screen return, out of1800-\\microa cathode current. This is 88 per cent over-all transmission, using the same defining aperture (0.007 inch). 18 volts of drive signal will completely modulate the above current."
"Experiments are presented which indicate the existence of two types of flicker noise in vacuum tubes with oxide-coated cathodes. The first is \"normal\" flicker noise that is present for anode voltages below 10 volts; the second is the \"bombardment-enhanced\" flicker noise that is added when the anode voltage is above 10 volts. It seems that the latter can be attributed to the arrival of neutral oxygen on the cathode. Since most pentodes and triodes operate with anode voltages above 10 volts, the \"bombardment-enbanced\" flicker noise should be a rather common source of flicker noise in these tubes."
"Experiments conducted on a beam-type backward-wave amplifier which closely approximates the theoretical thin-beam model used in the large-signal analysis of Sedin have resulted in gain and phase shift characteristics which are in good quantitative agreement with the adiabatic portion of both the Sedin and Gandhi-Rowe theories. Efficiencies approaching the theoretically-predicted maximum have been observed. By driving the amplifier to very large signal levels a conversion efficiency for power available from the initial potential energy of the beam of 63 per cent was obtained with a corresponding value of 45 per cent for the total electronic efficiency. An important feature of this experimental amplifier is the electron gun design which is based on a theory by Kino. That this gun is capable of producing a well-confined, rectilinear-flow thin beam is demonstrated by visual observations of the beam thickness which indicate that\\omega_{c}/\\omega_{p}is as low as 1.17, a value close to that for a laminar-flow Brillouin beam (\\omega_{c} = \\omega_{p})."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An account is given of an experimental investigation of the behavior of output windows, the particular type chosen for study being the cylindrical type in a cavity resonator. By feeding microwave power into the cavity and measuring electric field and the heat dissipated in the window and in the metal walls, a non-linear window-heating effect was discovered above a certain critical field strength. In this condition, watts dissipated at the window vary as the fifth or higher power of the electric field strength and the resulting thermal stresses may easily destroy it. Further experiments were performed on various modifications of the original structure in order to isolate and study the phenomena responsible for the heating. Some of these tests were made using an axial magnetic field. It was found that there are two distinct mechanisms of heating, one requiring the presence of the magnetic field and the other one not requiring it. Both involve energy exchange between the electric field and the window by free electrons which dance on the window surface synchronously with the alternating field and multiply by a secondary emission or multipactor process above a certain field strength. The critical field strength may be greatly reduced by the presence of contaminating films on the dielectric surface, and may be greatly increased by suitable surface treatment. It is shown that these effects are not restricted to cylindrical windows but will tend to occur at any dielectric surface in vacuum if the tangential RF field is strong enough."
"A brief description is given of several Spacistor structures and the techniques of fabrication. Detailed measurements of the four-pole parameters are reported and described with the aid of physical models. The mutual conductance is shown to depend upon injector-modulator spacing, injector current and modulator bias, with little variation to 25 Mc. Improvement in both gmand shielding is shown to occur when the modulator is injecting charge. Values of gmof the order of several hundred micromhos have been observed. The input resistance depends upon the characteristics of the modulator contact in the space-charge region and upon the dc bias. Under forward-biased modulator conditions (optimum gm) values of input resistance of the order of several hundred thousand ohms are obtained. Under zero-bias or reverse-bias conditions (somewhat reduced gm), values of several megohms are obtained. Values of output resistance ranging to several hundred thousand ohms have been observed with possibilities of larger values being obtained with improved design. Low frequency voltage gain of the order of 10 and power gain of the order of several hundred have been exhibited. The reduction of power gain at 25 Mc is attributed mostly to the array of contact and device resistances, and device and header capacities, some of which may be reduced by appropriate design. These prevented the elimination of shunting capacities and precluded higher frequency measurements."
"Electroluminescent phosphors for use in some electronic display devices should have brightness-voltage characteristics differing from those used in light sources, for example. The various factors of phosphor preparation and of cell construction which affect these characteristics have been studied. Special phosphor powders with unusually high or unusually low values of \"discrimination ratio\" (a quantity related to the change in output as the applied voltage is varied) have been developed and their performance described. It has also been shown that thin phosphor films afford extremely high values of discrimination ratio, particularly if operated on dc. The use of nonlinear materials (especially zinc oxide) as auxiliary layers to increase the discrimination ratio obtained with a given phosphor has been studied."
"In large-diameter electron stream traveling-wave amplifiers there is a significant variation of the circuit electric field across the stream. Most analyses neglect the effects of these field variations. An approximate method has been used to study the effect of transverse field variations on the gain and effciency of large-signal traveling-wave amplifiers. The annular electron stream is subdivided into a number of annular rings each containing an equal fraction of the total current. It is assumed that the circuit field varies over the stream cross section and that each segment has a different coupling to the circuit. The space-charge field is assumed independent of radius. The effect on gain and efficiency is calculated for a stream diameter of B = 1 and it is found that a subdivision of the stream into two segments with different couplings to the circuit gives a lower saturation efficiency but that further subdivision does not appreciably charge the results."
"In order to determine the efficacy of ferrite isolators used as internal attenuators in traveling-wave tubes, two TWT's incorporating such isolators were developed, one using orthodox magnetic focusing, the other using electrostatic focusing. The results of the experimentation indicate that the ferrite can, in some cases, offer improvement in gain and efficiency over reciprocal attenuators. The limitations of this device are discussed together with some particular advantages it may offer for special applications. Design criteria for such isolators and the effects of the ferrite as a circuit element in TWT's, are also investigated."
"A simple receiver using a single reflex klystron as a mixer and local oscillator is described. Experimental data show typical performance, and a theory based on reflex-klystron and transmission-line theory is proposed which explains the observed behavior. The S- and X-band tangential sensitivities are about 15 db better than can be realized with a low-level crystal video detector and it is thought that this figure may be exceeded at the higher microwave frequencies where crystal sensitivity is relatively poor."
"A planar structure, closely related to the stub-supported ring and bar structure, is analyzed using Fletcher's method. The computed dispersion characteristics and interaction impedances show that it should prove useful in millimeter generators. Experiments at X band have shown that oscillation bands of over 1.7 : 1 are possible working on a backward mode. Forward-mode operation with higher output powers, but with a more restricted bandwidth can also be realized."
"Two types of RF window failure in a high-power magnetron are investigated. Cracking is shown to depend on electrostatic charging of an evaporated metallic deposit on the window. Punctures were investigated by observation of X-ray stereo-autograms, and are shown to result from an internal multipactor discharge, which in turn is enabled to function at high voltages by the stray magnetic field. Methods for curing both types of defect are given, with evidence that they are successful. The methods are applicable to other high-power microwave tubes, both magnetrons and klystrons."
"A semitheoretical, semiheuristic analysis is given of crossed-field electron interaction of the distributed-emission type. The emphasis of this paper is on the over-all picture of this complex type of interaction, rather than on mathematical exactness. The results are given in terms of five equations from which can be calculated the amount of dc applied power which is converted to real and reactive RF power under given conditions of frequency, RF potential, and magnetic-field strength. These equations are applied to the magnetron oscillator to predict power delivered to the anode by the electron bunches, frequency-pushing characteristics, V-I characteristics, and Rieke Diagrams. The agreement of the experimental data with the calculations over this wide range of characteristics confirms the validity of the analysis."
"The construction and testing of a crossed-field gun based on an exact space-charge flow solution will be described. All the characteristic parameters of a gun of this type may be obtained analytically. Experimentally the gun was found to perform essentially as predicted. This gun has a moderately high convergence and produces a beam whose gross features give a very good approximation to planar Brillouin flow. Work by Anderson has indicated that crossed-field beams produced by a gun of this type may be somewhat less noisy than similar beams produced by other types of guns."
"A time-domain analysis of the high-frequency currents in a crossed-field potential minimum is presented. The distinctions between ordinary and crossed-field potential minimums are discussed and a one-dimensional model for the crossed-field case is described. The general form of the solution is given as an infinite array of coupled integral equations and the required expressions for the coefficients are developed. A reduced array of equations is used for a numerical analysis of a diode with a 100-gauss transverse magnetic field. The numerical analysis revealed only a minor modification of the current fluctuations as a result of the transverse magnetic field, although experiments have shown excess-energy crossed-field currents related to the potential minimum with magnetic fields lower than this."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A description is given of an integrated electronic device, or circuit, in the form of a miniaturized germanium shift register consisting of thyristor stages and minority carrier delay lines. Design considerations including theoretical analysis of minority carrier drift under dc and pulse conditions are presented. The most important second-order effects, such as influence of minority carrier storage, potential interaction, capacitances, and temperature, are analyzed. The register operates with shift pulses of 20 volts over 10,000 ohms and a repetition rate of several hundred kc. An improved version with the stages in parallel rather than in series offers considerable advantages from a fabrication point of view, in that larger tolerances in the fabrication process may be allowed."
"Poisson's equation is solved for two common types of diffused p-n junctions in a manner similar to that of previous authors. By a suitable transformation, the field in the junction and capacitance-voltage relation for all junctions are shown to be presentable as a single family of curves with no approximation other than the assumption of negligible drift field. The abrupt and graded regions are discussed in detail. The zero-bias potential and capacitance are also discussed."
"The product of the cutoff frequency and the capacitance-voltage sensitivity is proposed as a figure-of-merit of the variable capacitance diode. It is expected from the theoretical results that the high-voltage sensitivity (dC/dV)/C of the capacitance is obtained by the \"hyperabrupt\" junction in which the impurity concentration decreases with the distance from the p-n boundary. Assuming the exponential decrease of the impurity concentration, the theoretical expression is derived for the capacitance-voltage characteristic of the \"hyperabrupt\" junction diode, and is compared with the experiment. \"Hyper-abrupt\" structure is easily obtained by the alloy-diffusion technique. The experimental capacitance-voltage characteristics of the germanium alloy-diffused diode agree fairly well with the theoretical results. Diodes changing the capacitance in proportion to the -3 power of the applied voltage have been made, with the tuning ratio to about 100. To date, a diode with the maximum cut-off frequency of 30 kMc and with the figure-of-merit Fγof 5.5 kMc/v, has been made. Further increase of these quantities, however, will be obtained by the reduction of the thickness of the base layers which is about 15 microns in the above diode."
"An error treatment of the diffusion variables of time t, temperature T, and starting resistivity ρ, has been made in regard to their effects upon junction depth. An analytical equation has been derived for engineering usage in determining the per cent error in junction depthx: Per cent error in junction depth =100 \\sqrt{\\frac{\\bar{Δt^{2}}{2t}} +\\frac{\\bar{QΔT}^{2}}{2RT^{2}}+\\bar{\\frac{\\sqrt{\\pi DT}}{\\microq p^{2}N_{s}x}. \\Delta \\rho exp (x^{2}/4Dt)}}A sample calculation using the above equation is presented along with a method of estimating errors in junction depth due to heating and cooling in the diffusion cycle."
"Diode oscillations at frequencies between 1350 and 3700 Mc sometimes occurred in a particular high-voltage pulsed klystron. These frequencies agree closely with those calculated for an inverted spherical diode. The oscillations are often delayed a few microseconds after the electron beam is turned on. Experimental techniques revealed that two of the modes, TE41and TE61, with Q's of about 1000 had their highest electric fields in a region of the electron gun remote from the beam."
"This paper proposes a method whereby the reflection of an electromagnetic wave from a surface can be controlled. The idea is to use a p-n junction as the controlling device. The device is made in such a way that the junction is parallel to the surface upon which the electromagnetic radiation is impinging. If the p region is very narrow the wave will penetrate through it into the depletion region. If the n region is hi conductivity, the wave is reflected from it. Then if the depletion layer width is right for the frequency considered, the reflected wave will interact with the impinging wave to give the desired effect. By changing the bias applied to the junction a tuning effect can be obtained. Detailed analysis of the proposed device is covered in the paper. There are some practical limitations to creating the device described, but the idea and the method of analysis could be useful to individuals interested in creating microwave tuning and control components."
"A ceramic-metalizing method was developed which increases the reliability of hard-soldered metal-ceramic seals and makes production automation possible. The new technique utilizes a \"metalizing tape\" consisting of a self-supporting plastic tape which contains the metalizing powders and a suitable binder (methacrylic-type). This tape can be manufactured with extremely uniform thickness, density and surface smoothness, all of which qualities can be controlled on the prefabricated tape prior to its usage. The application of the prefabricated metalizing tape to the ceramic surface can be accomplished in a very simple way: by using a suitable solvent to form a bond between the metalizing tape and the ceramic, or by thermal sealing. The materials and the methods used for the preparation of the metalizing tape are described, as well as the methods of application. The resulting extremely uniform metal coating on the ceramic makes it possible to investigate the effect of metalizing thickness and of different materials on the bond strength and on the vacuum qualities of metal-ceramic butt seals."
"An analysis of tunnel-diode converters is presented for two different conditions of operation. In the first, the converter is self-oscillating; in the second, the local oscillator (LO) voltage is provided from an external source. Two classes of self-oscillating converters are presented. The first operates on the fundamental of the oscillation frequency and the other operates on the second harmonic. Assuming the dynamic conductance of a tunnel diode changes only as a function of the local oscillator voltage, and expressing this conductance in a Fourier series, a 3 × 3 conductance matrix is obtained. Utilizing this matrix, expressions for gain, bandwidth, and noise figure are obtained. The analysis includes the image frequency termination. In the expressions for noise figure, the cross-correlation terms, produced by the amplitude change of the dc equivalent shot-noise current due to the LO voltage, are also included."
"A cathode-ray tube having a faceplate penetrated by an array of many fine wires, has been developed for high-speed printing applications. Charge patterns are deposited on moving paper in response to a modulated electron beam which scans the inner ends of the wires in the CRT. The pattern on the paper is dusted with an electroscopic powder to make it visible. Copy having a resolution of 104picture elements/inch can be produced at a rate of 2 feet/second. The tube is being used in high-speed facsimile equipment and in a computer output printer which prints magazine address labels at a speed of 130,000 labels per hour from digital information stored on tape. Television pictures have been reproduced field-by-field at standard rates. The tube has wide application in systems where high-speed, remote print-out or local reproduction of copy is required. The cost of the recording paper is about one-tenth that of light-sensitive materials."
"This paper presents the calculation of the effect of velocity spread in electron streams on the gain and efficiency in klystrons. Using the density-function method and assuming a half-Maxwellian velocity distribution, a small-signal theory of a klystron tube was developed. The form of the solution is a power series whose coefficients contain even powers of ω q/ω. The effect of losses in the cavity has also been included. The results are presented as plots of the ratios of the ac component of the bunched current with velocity spread vs a dimensionless parameter that is a measure of the velocity spread. The plots contain ωq/ω, the lengths of the drift tube and of the gaps as important design parameters."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Thin sheets of Mylar have been found a useful material for electron beam windows for beams in the 0.5- to 1.0- Mev energy range. The material finds special application in beam excited plasma devices where the plasma and the electron gun are to be held at different pressures. Experiments are described in which the amount of beam scatter and beam debunching caused by the Mylar are determined. Data is presented on the damage to the Mylar caused by the electron beam and the resultant decrease in pressure differential that the bombarded Mylar can withstand. The experiments were also conducted using Mylar sheets coated with 4000-5000 A coatings of aluminum."
"A one-port, nonlinear, crossed-field microwave amplifier which uses a magnetron as a negative-resistance element is described. Such an amplifier is characterized as one using an emitting sole, reentrant beam, and reentrant RF fields. A circulator is required to achieve stable regenerative amplification. The system is analyzed as a negative-resistance amplifier and as a synchronized or forced oscillator. Experimental measurements of gain and bandwidth are illustrated. The effect of varying operating conditions upon these characteristics is indicated. Operation with a solid cathode composed of oxidized beryllium-nickel has been demonstrated."
"The purpose of this paper is to calculate the voltage drop across a closed transistor switch in the presence of intermediate-level operating conditions. The problem is formulated to include the important one-dimensional effects associated with intermediate-level operation in such a way that the low-level theory is included as a special case. Experimental verification of the theory has been obtained over a moderately wide range of base drives."
"This paper considers the extension of Poynting's theorem to an electron gas with a continuous distribution of velocities. In particular, an extension of the concept of \"kinetic potential\" is attempted, since this concept has proved itself very useful in the investigation of single-velocity flow. It is found that in three dimensions the electrokinetic-flow vector cannot be expressed as the product of the convection-current density and a single scalar quantity of the dimension potential. In one-dimensional applications, however, this circumstance is immaterial. Another difficulty is encountered when a small perturbation component on a steady state is considered. The nonlinear Bolzmann transport equation gives a linear equation between the first-order perturbations, but the nonlinearity makes possible a conversion of part of the perturbation power flow to dc power flow. In other words, the power flow associated with a single-frequency perturbation is not necessarily conserved in multivelocity flow, even in the absence of an ac Poynting vector. In the case of space-charge-limited flow in an electron gun, the consequence is that the cooling of an electron stream by adiabatic expansion can proceed beyond the potential minimum and very low noise temperatures are attainable in principle if the accelerating field is maintained small over an appreciable length of the electron gun."
"The turn-on characteristics of 200-volt four-layer diodes have been investigated as a function of the rate of rise of the applied voltage close to the breakover point. A fast rate of rise of the order of kv/µsec allows bringing the voltage up to, or higher than, the designed avalanche voltage of the center junction, even if localized spots having a lower breakdown voltage are present. Such spots, possibly due to crystalline defects, surface conditions and statistical or accidental variations of impurity concentration, may lead to localized turn-on and possible burn out. There is experimental evidence that a fast rate of rise results in uniform turn-on and allows current densities up to 55,000 a/cm2without damaging the device."
"This paper describes the theory and testing of a 100- Mc repetition-rate millimicrosecond pulse-generator tube utilizing klystron bunching. The optimum operation of the generator was obtained with a drift-tube transit angle Θ0of approximately 150°; depth of modulation\\alpha = V_{1}/V_{0} = 1; and the reduced plasma-angle\\Phi_{q}was less than 20°. Observations and data were determined with an Edgerton, Germeshausen and Grier traveling-wave oscilloscope and a comparison measurement technique. The generator has a measured pulse rise time of 130 µµsec (0-100 per cent), and a pulse duration of 300 µµsec at the half-voltage point. A pulse height of 20 volts on a 50-ohm coaxial line is possible. The analysis applied in predicting the shape of the pulse was based on large signal ballistic bunching theory and a quantized collector gap theory. A comparison between analysis and measurement indicates an error of about 20 per cent. Theory predicts that little improvement can be made in the pulse duration, but the pulse rise time may be improved with increased circuit complexity."
"For the application of tunnel diodes in the microwave region it is important that the series inductance of the diodes is well below one nanohenry. Such small inductances are very difficult to measure. A method is described here by which the inductance can be calculated. The key point of the procedure is a new parameter called the effective radius of a tunnel diode. It is the radius of a cylindrical conductor which can be substituted for the diode in inductance calculations. Experimental determination of the effective radius is shown. The approach taken readily leads to a concise definition of the series inductance of tunnel diodes."
"The nature of the impurity grading in the base of drift transistors is studied by measuring the dependence of the base transit time on collector voltage. Provided that modulation of collector-depletion layer width caused by change of collector voltage occurs only in the base material, as in the case of an alloyed collector, it is possible to deduce the base-region field parameterm=\\Delta V/(kT/q)from such transit-time measurements. By this means, the validity of assumed distributions of impurity density may be verified; in particular, it may be established whether the impurity grading approximates an exponential or a complementary error function (erfc) form. Results are given for a number of drift-transistor samples, most of which are believed to have undergone impurity diffusion into the base material from a constant surface concentration during fabrication. In all cases, however, interpretation of measured data indicates a base impurity-density distribution approximating exponential rather than erfc form to be present."
"Closely spaced, fine-mesh, double grid systems were tested in a parallel-plane arrangement for their electrical and electron-optical properties. The grids maintain adequate control of heavy currents with virtually negligible interception. The scattering introduced by the combined grid system is quite low and decreases with closeness of cathode and grid spacings, fineness of mesh, and increase of current. Similar results can be achieved with a single grid coated on the cathode side with a thin insulating layer."
"Investigations have been undertaken at the University of California over the past several years to extend the application of a cold-cathode parallel-field device to the fields of rectification, amplification, oscillation, and electron emission. The characteristics of the device as functions of voltage and magnetic field in the pressure range near 10-3mm of Hg have been studied. Operation of the device as a short-circuit-stable variety of negative resistance is possible, and a simple theory is given to explain the negative-resistance phenomenon. Results indicate that rectifiers capable of withstanding inverse voltages of at least 30 kv and currents of 10 ma with a forward drop of 300 v are possible. A peak electron emission of 7.2 ma/w indicates that the device might serve as an electron source in long-pulse applications."
"Cerenkov radiation of a prebunched beam in a dielectric tube waveguide is here shown to be about an order of magnitude higher than that in a comparable slab of dielectric material. Furthermore, two distinct types of interaction are analyzed: multibunch, and bunch-by-bunch radiation, wherein integral transform methods are used. Multibunch Cerenkov radiation in a helix waveguide is used to show the identity with TWT interaction. It is subsequently shown that for open boundary inhomogeneous waveguides a TWT type analysis will give the same results as multibunch Cerenkov radiation based on integral transform methods. For single bunch or a bunch-by-bunch type of interaction in such structures where energy orthogonality and completeness of the eigenfunctions do not hold, an integral transform method is used. The underlying difference between bunch-by-bunch and multibunch radiation is discussed. The utility of Cerenkov radiation in a dielectric tube waveguide for the generation of coherent electromagnetic power in the millimeter range is pointed out. Numerical results are given to show the variation of power with respect to various parameters. Experimental results from a 0.8-Mev beam are shown to agree satisfactorily with theory."
"A small-signal analysis of E-type traveling-wave devices is presented for systems in which a ribbon-shaped electron beam completes a single excursion through the interaction space of a coaxial-cylindrical structure. The incremental propagation constants and the associated forward-wave growing- and beating-wave gain, as well as the backward-wave start-oscillation conditions, are examined over a wide range of operating conditions. The results point to an interaction-principle that specifies the manner in which the rate of change of energy transfer between the electron beam and the RF wave is affected by the curvature of the path. The origins of slipping-stream motion are examined and an approximate method of computing gain under these circumstances is presented. In addition, predictions based on a small-signal study reveal that E- and O-type devices possess comparable efficiencies. Experimental data on a C-band E-type amplifier are presented a in support of the theoretical predictions."
"The noise figure of a variable-capacitance parametric amplifier can be greatly improved by refrigerating the diode. A thermoelectric refrigerator can be used for this purpose without losing the advantage of system simplicity. A two-stage thermoelectric refrigerator has been built into a 6-Gc parametric amplifier. With no load this refrigerator has produced a temperature difference of 101°C below room temperature. In the amplifier it cooled the diode to 213°K. The effective noise temperature of the amplifier was reduced from 170°K when the GaAs diode was at room temperature to 108°K when the diode was cooled to 213°K. The design, construction and characteristics of the amplifier and the thermoelectric refrigerator are described."
"There are at present two methods of approach to the problem of noise in p-n junction diodes: 1) the corpuscular theory and 2) the more fundamental collective theory. In the first the noise is expressed in terms of the fate of individual carriers, and in the second the noise is described in terms of distributed diffusion noise and recombination noise sources. The equivalence of the two methods is demonstrated by integrating the continuity equation and identifying the various groups of carriers showing up in the corpuscular theory."
"The electric fields associated with a \"slow\" electro-magnetic wave propagating along an electron beam will modulate this beam; the axial component of field will produce the usual \"bunching,\" while the radial component will cause periodic perturbations in the radius of such an electron beam. This paper presents the results of analytical and experimental studies in an attempt to explain certain features of this defocusing effect of intense RF fields on the beam in a traveling-wave tube. In particular the effect of cathode flux on the RF defocusing of a beam in Brillouin flow is treated."
"This paper describes a varactor diode backward-wave parametric amplifier (BWPA) which operates in a new mode that yields a constant-output frequency as the amplification frequency is electronically turned over an octave signal tuning range. A theoretical discussion on the design considerations is presented and applied to the construction of an LF model (1.5-3.3 Mc). Experimental data on the important amplifier characteristics are given and shown to correlate well with theory. The amplifier yields stable gains in excess of 20 db over a greater-than-octave tuning range, and the output frequency (which is taken at the idler) has less than a ± 1.6 per cent variation over the octave band. The over-all effective receiver input-noise temperatures were measured and agreed well with theory, being about 160°K at the LF end of the band and increasing to 300°K at the HF end."
"A variational analysis is developed for a large class of helical slow-wave structures and illustrated for a narrow tape helix. A 2 × 2 determinantal equation accurately describes the dispersion of the wave with predominant n = 1 mode component, both in the ordinary and anomalous regions. A 3 × 3 determinantal equation would be necessary to describe well the dispersion of the ordinary TWT wave at low frequencies. The analysis is modified to include the presence of a filamentary electron beam. It is shown how the equation for the incremental propagation constant takes the Pierce form, provided the frequency does not lie too near cutoff. A variational analysis is also made of the propagation in a general narrow-band cavity chain interacting with a longitudinally-confined beam. It is shown how the equation for the incremental phase shift per cavity is formally related to Pierce's equation for the incremental propagation constant in a helix TWT. Provided certain necessary (but not sufficient) conditions are met, an appropriately-defined C3parameter exists for the cavity chain. The resonant-slot coupled cavity chain is treated variationally and it is shown how a very accurate dispersion relation obtains. The waves in this structure interacting with a beam are also described formally, under certain conditions, by the Pierce equation for the TWT."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"An experimental traveling-wave tube utilizing a broad-band open interaction structure called the ring-loaded Meander Line is described. The interaction structure consisting of a series of rings supported on two ziz-zag wires has high interaction impedance combined with capability of 40% bandwidth and is free from interfering backward wave modes. Attenuation and mechanical support is obtained with the use of carbon impregnated ceramic rods.\\frac{7}{8}rigid coax input and output lines are well matched to the circuit over an octave. Feedback due to fast waveguide modes is prevented by special attenuators. Cold test data is presented on the circuit and the matches. Experimental small signal gain and power data are presented. The first tube achieved 250 Kw peak at 15% efficiency,\\frac{1}{2}db variation over 20% bandwidth. Power output was limited by arcing in output region rather than by saturation. A second tube is being built which should yield 1 megawatt over 30% bandwidth at 30% efficiency. Methods of making the circuit out of tubing through which coolant can be pumped have been developed. Liquid cooling will provide average power capability comparable to klystrons and loaded waveguide tubes."
"A new type magnetron, known as the GEM coaxial magetron, has been developed which has several major advantages over the conventional magnetrons of today. High peak power at long pulse length can be obtained at both high efficiency and with light weight, making this device especially suitable where power availability and weight are at a premium. The frequency stability of this tube is approximately a factor of 4 better than conventional magnetrons as evidenced by extremely low pushing and pulling figures. The basic principles upon which the design of the CEM coaxial magnetron is based are discussed. The design philosophy of this tube is compared to that of conventional magnetrons. In the rising-sun magnetron mode separation is the design criterion, whereas in the CEM coaxial magnetron selective mode absorption is the key to a successful design. To obtain higher peak power output, the interaction area of the rising-sun magnetron is increased axially while in the CEM coaxial magnetron the interaction space area is increased circumferentially. The electrical performance is described and a performance chart is shown. The ease of tunability of such a design is discussed."
"This paper describes a very high average power, high peak power, 4 cavity klystron capable of operation in excess of 5 megawatts peak and 300 kilowatts average for pulse lengths greater than 500 microseconds. The tube utilizes a solid beam perveance of2.7 \\times 10^{-6}and operates over a 10 per cent tunable bandwidth at power gain in excess of 40 db. The tube employs an insulated collector capable of dissipating in excess of 1 megawatt of average beam power. The window design utilized on this tube has been proven to greater than 15 megawatts peak power and in excess of 300 kilowatts average power. The window is a 6\" diameter disc design, fabricated from Beryllium Oxide Ceramic and utilizing peripheral water cooling. The gun design incorporates a modulating anode with unity voltage gain. The phase linearity characteristics of the tube are such that limited pulse compression may be utilized. The tube is designed to tune over 10 per cent bandwidth centered at 1320 megacycles. Gain, efficiency and phase linearity characteristics are included as well as pictures of the critical design areas."
"This paper describes a developmental periodic permanent-magnet focused traveling-wave amplifier having up to 500 kw peak output power at S-band. The slow-wave circuit used is an extrapolation of the Hughes developed coupled-cavity structure which has been used previously in tubes at X- and C-band. In this structure the iron pole pieces used for focusing the beam are an integral part of the r-f circuit. The vacuum envelope consists of the iron pole pieces and alternating copper cavity walls. The higher power and lower frequency of the present tube has resulted in the largest size and highest power reported in a periodic permanent-magnet focused tube."
"A klystron with a multi-cavity buncher and extended interaction catcher has been built and tested. The tube has external cavities which can be modified and adjusted quite easily. The frequency is around 900 MC., the power level 10.20 KW. CW. A three cavity buncher is followed by a slot coupled cavity slow wave structure using short slots and up to six cavities, with a Single output terminal. This is fundamentally a backward wave circuit designed to work near beam synchronism at and near the upper cut-off point of the first forward wave space harmonic. Results indicate how much improvement in efficiency-bandwidth product can be obtained with such a catcher before the limit due to self-oscillation is reached. Some results are also given for a different arrangement in which three of the six slot-coupled cavities are used as the final stage of the buncher and the other three as the catcher."
"Diffused base germanium transistors of two sizes have been designed for use as common base amplifiers above 1 Kmc. Both are coaxially encapsulated pnp structures in epitaxial germanium, with base layer widths of 0.3 microns. The smaller device has emitter and base stripes of 7.5 by 37.5 microns with 4 micron separation. A power output of 20 mw at 1 Kmc and 13 mw at 2 Kmc has been obtained with a bias power of 60 mw and an input drive of 2 mw. Insertion gain at 1 Kmc for the transistor with tuned input and output and no external feedback is 17 db with a reverse transfer through the device and tuning elements of -16 db. An amplifier with one transistor has provided 12 db of gain at a center frequency of 1.9 Kmc with a 3 db bandwidth of 200 Mc."
"Double diffused silicon planar npn transistors capable of operating at frequencies as high as 2 Kmc are described. These transistors have an active emitter area of one square mil and a base width of approximately 0.5 micron. In spite of the small emitter area bonding of the lead wires to the transistor is accomplished readily through the use of relatively large metallized areas extending over the oxide protected surface. This method and others used in the fabrication of the transistors are described. With these transistors power gains as high as 14 db and an oscillator output power of 40 mw at 1 Kmc have been realized. The fT's are typically about 800 mc. Curves showing performance vs. bias conditions and frequency are shown. A low storage time transistor for use in saturated switching and having the same active area is also discussed. Propagation delay times as low as 2 ns have been obtained."
"It is well known that at high injection levels the current capability of a transistor emitter is proportional to emitter periphery rather than area. The star geometry of the device reported in this paper was designed for maximum edge length to area ratio consistent with fabrication techniques. This NPN silicon transistor was designed to operate in the 150 ma range, with optimum geometry to give maximum high-frequency performance. Coupling of planar-epitaxial construction with the optimum geometry resulted in a structure capable of replacing a number of other types designed for special functions. Nano-ampere leakage currents and long term stability were obtained by planar-passivated construction; Useful current gains have been obtained from 1 microampere to 1 ampere. Current-gain bandwidth, ft, is greater than 300 megacycles Emitter and collector transition capacitance and base spreading resistance are minimized in the geometry used. Use of epitaxial material resulted in less than 3 ohms saturation resistance. As an amplifier, more than 2 watts RF. power output with greater than 10 db gain has been obtained at 70 megacycles."
"With the advent of the techniques for growing epitaxial films of silicon and germanium, the question naturally arises as to how the method compares to a well-established technique such as diffusion. The present commercial epitaxial transistors consist of thin epitaxially grown collector regions into which the base and emitter are diffused. By controlling the impurity concentration during growth, it is theoretically possible to produce a completely grown epitaxial structure. One must then decide what advantages, if any, accrue. An attempt has been made to obtain a partial answer by growing the collector and base region and then diffusing in the emitter. This has the possible advantage of eliminating the long base diffusion which is required in the conventional \"'epitaxial\" structure. At the same time, it gives a considerable amount of information about the properties of grown junctions and the state of crystalline perfection the base region. Data will be given comparing these \"grown base\" devices with the conventional high preformance double-diffused epitaxial device, 2N834. The effects of base doping and geometry will be discussed."
"A diffusion-mask technique has been developed to make germanium planar diodes and PNP transistors. This preferential masking is effective for various P and N type dopants at different concentration levels and diffusion lengths. A comparison is made of all the characteristics of the planar and its equivalent mesa structure. All the surface dependent parameters, such as diode reverse current, surface recombination velocity, have shown improvement over mesa units. Also, a very narrow distribution of these parameters has been observed. Units fabricated by this technique have higher reliability at ambient as well as elevated temperatures over equivalent mesa units. Life stability of the device is very satisfactory."
"A double-diffused NPN germanium mesa transistor has been designed for ultra-high Speed switching applications. This device is intended for switching circuit use in the 1 to 100 mA range, affording the advantages of complementary circuitry in conjuction with such standard PNP devices as the 2N705 and 2N828. Switching times of the device described here are, however, lower by a factor of from two to three than in the PNP devices. The geometry of the active device approaches the smallest compatible with fabrication techniques. The fabrication of the device involves the use of tunnel PN junction ohmic contacts, the selective masking of diffusions, and the formation of ohmic contacts by photo-resist processes. Some effects of surface passivation on this NPN germanium device are also discussed. By virtue of its small geometry and the higher minority carrier mobility inherent in the NPN structure, frequency response is much improved over the standard PNP mesa transistors. Current gain bandwidth products as high as 1500 MCPS are commonly observed."
"A mesa type germanium switching transistor, designed for switching rates up to 100 mc per second in a saturating circuit, has been developed. It features a unity-gain frequency of 1.5 to 4 Kmc, collector and emitter depletion capacitance of 1 pf each, and operation at a collector current of up to 50 ma. Switching times in a special saturated switching circuit have been measured as low as 5 Nsec total. The current gain at a collector current of 50 ma is typically 30 or higher and collector breakdown voltage is 10 Volts or higher. Epitaxial pp+material is used, resulting in low collector saturation voltage (.5 volts at 50 ma) and low storage time. The epitaxial structure also results in a relatively constant fTup to a collector current of 50 ma, making the transistor suitable for high current switching."
"Autoluminesence of diffused silicon transistors produced by intrinsic recombination radiation was used to observe injected carrier concentrations under various operating conditions. Current theories of device operation will be discussed in terms of these observations. Infrared photomicrographs of diffused silicon transistors of various geometries will be shown and used to examine the design adequacy for various operating conditions. The most striking feature of the carrier distributions is the negligible injected carrier density except at the emitter perimeter. This is a result of the reduction of the emitter forward bias under the central part of the emitter due to lateral flow of base current. The photomicrographs provide a spectacular confirmation of this aspect of existing design theory."
"In solid state circuits, it is often necessary to transform from high to low impedance levels without power loss. Conventional techniques usually involve the use of matching transformers which are costly in both money and space, or of degenerative circuits which introduce considerable loss of gain. A functional block has recently been designed and fabricated on a single crystal silicon block which provides the necessary matching with power gain over a limited frequency range. Another advantage of the block is that it is truly unilateral over this frequency range, requiring no neutralization to make the output independent of the input. Many cases arise where the block can be directly coupled to the previous stage without capacitors or other coupling components. The functional block consists of two active regions. The input region operates as a field effect transistor, while the output region consists of a conventional bipolar transistor. Both active regions are processed simultaneously using standard photo masking techniques. The input of the block can be represented by a parallel resistor and capacitor, equivalent to a reverse biased diode (ordinarily about 2-5 megohms in parallel with 5-10 pfd), giving a very high input impedance over the frequency range. With the present design, the block is capable of 40-50 db power gain at current levels of 2-5 ma. The overall transconductance is 5000 to 10,000 mhos, and the open circuit voltage gains are greater than 20."
"An analysis will be presented which predicts a group of transistor-like devices which are capable of producing high Q, tunable inductance. The complex nature of α is utilized to produce such inductive behavior. An experimental verification was made by the fabrication of a low frequency, germanium transistor. Inductances of millihenries at several hundred KC to one Henry at 100 cps have been produced. The device inductance is adjustable from very low values to the maximum value by varying the base resistance and the collector capacitance. The internal and external damping resistances are canceled by the negative resistance produced with avalanche operation to give very high values of Q at moderate bias conditions. Improved temperature stability has been achieved over other approaches to solid state inductance. This high Q miniaturized inductance should be a very useful complement in the various approaches to solid state microelectronics."
"The design and structure of solid state micrologic elements is described. In discussing these elements, the emphasis is placed on the use of multiple diffusion, masking and evaporation in the fabrication of integrated microcircuits in a single piece of silicon. It is shown that both active and passive elements can be built into the silicon substrate and that electrical isolation of the individual components can be achieved when necessary. The techniques employed in making the interconnection will be described. Microphotographs and cross sectional views of these elements at various stages of construction are shown in conjunction with a discussion of the following process steps: 1. Materials preparation. 2. The seven masking operations. 3. Electrical isolation of active and passive elements within the silicon substrate. 4. Diffusion of active and passive elements. 5. Surface passivation. 6. Electrical interconnection of components. 7. Packaging and testing. Economy, reliability and design flexibility are some of the more important considerations of this approach. These are reviewed in connection with the present family of six micrologic elements. The feasibility of extending present technology to the development and manufacture of differing and more complex microcircuits and subsystems is discussed."
"The drift of minority carriers in an electric field can be used to provide a voltage variable signal delay. In the semi-conductor delay line tuner, minority carriers are injected into a germanium bar subjected to an electric field. A series of equally spaced collectors, placed down stream from the point of injection, provide delayed versions of the injected signal with delays of\\Delta_{\\tau}, 2\\Delta_{\\tau}, 3\\Delta_{\\tau}, etc. When these signals are brought to a summing junction, the summer exhibits peak response for injected signals whose period is Δτ. For a sine wave, sine\\omega t, the output will be maximum when\\omega = \\frac{2\\pi}{\\Delta_{\\tau}}. Since the delay increment Δτis inversely proportional to the electric field, the frequency of maximum response may be varied by changing the voltage across the germanium bar."
"The absolute upper limit to packing density and the absolute minimum size of semiconductor devices, whether integrated or non-integrated, is investigated, It is found that absolute limitations exist based on physical phenomena, the mose important of which are statistical variations in impurity distribution, ultimate resolution of fabrication methods, power density and bombardment by cosmic rays. On the basis of these phenomena it is shown that for a medium size computer (105components), with a reasonable mean time between failures (1 month) the maximum packing density is approximately 1010components per cubic inch. This corresponds to a minimum size of the components which is within a factor of 2-5 of the dimensions of the active region of many devices of today. Therefore as far as the devices themselves are concerned the end of the road to smaller size has already been reached. A comparison of various components, and various forms of these components is given."
"Gallium-arsenide solar cells which exhibit conversion efficiencies up to 13 percent have been made. A brief description of the cell geometry and the fabrication processes is given. A typical current-voltage (I-V) curve for such GaAs solar cells is shown and compared to a theoretical curve based on an experimentally determined space-charge-recombination junction current and zero series resistance in the cell. It is shown that internal power dissipation is a small fraction of the energy delivered to the load. Although the junction depth in the final cell is less than a micron, the surface concentration is sufficiently high to keep series-resistance power losses negligible. The effect of the resultant high built-in drift field is to increase the apparent minority-carrier diffusion length, and thus permit a design with high collection efficiency despite the low minority-carrier lifetimes observed in GaAs."
"One method of converting solar power directly into electrical power depends upon the utilization of photoelectric emission to convert the incident photons into electrical energy. This method requires that certain minimum conditions are established before power is available from the device: that is, close spacing between the photocathode and anode to minimize the effect of space charge and the electron optic barrier; a low work-function, low quantum efficiency coating upon the anode; an electron optic geometry that keeps the anode surface in the dark; and a conducting mesh or coating on the photocathode substrate to minimize the photoemissive surface resistivity. These conditions in turn require that certain problems in vacuum tube technology be solved, problems which require new Techniques and new approaches. Their solution results in a solar power converter theoretically capable of 3% conversion efficiency at a cost of $28 per watt, and specific power of 18 watts per pound. The results of the last two years of effort on this device are described and the future of the thin glass-sandwich photoemissive solar power converters are discussed."
"Design of N/P silicon solar cells to operate in the inner Van Allen belt is described. Solar cells have been developed with the N+ diffusion layer thickness in the 0.25-0.5 micron range, resulting in high sensitivity in the 0.4-0.7 micron spectral region, and thus long working life in a radiation environment. Dependence of output power, spectral response, and operating life upon the design features is shown. The cells employ a gridded front contact to minimize series resistive losses in the thin N+ layer, and a silicon monoxide antireflective coating adjusted for optimum response in the blue-green. Performance comparisons show that blue-sensitive N/P cells of 10% initial conversion efficiency deliver greater power after prolonged bombardment than conventional P/N cells of high initial efficiency. High efficiency resulting from preparation of red-sensitive cells with long minority carrier diffusion length is not important for long life in radiation environments, since this response deteriorates rapidly. A random sample of several hundred cells from a production group of several thousand has been evaluated in detail on automatic test equipment, and parameter distributions will be shown."
"In the present state of the art the construction of useful thermoelectric generators requires careful planning on the part of the design engineer. He must be aware of the significant factors that influence the performance, reliability, life, and ease of fabrication of the generators. This paper illustrates many of the practical problems that are encountered in building present clay generators. A design procedure for free convection air-cooled generators is described. The performance of power thermocouples as a function of junction temperature is discussed and curves illustrating couple efficiency, power output, heat flux, and voltage as a function of hot junction temperature are illustrated. The effects of varying thermocouple length on generator efficiency and generator specific power are shown graphically and methods of predicting generator performance as the number of thermocouple is varied are illustrated. The paper also discusses free convection heat exchangers and fossil fuel burners. In addition, the thermoelectric generator performance on a watts per pound basis is compared with battery and gasoline engine driven generator performance for specific missions."
"In this paper, the basic design problems encountered in the development of a forced convection cooled light-weight portable thermoelectric generator are discussed and analyzed. These problems are fundamentally a question of the proper integration and optimization of the propane heat source and forced convection cooling system within the engineering restrictions imposed by the mechanical and thermoelectric properties of present day thermoelements. These restrictions involve the effect of contact resistance, figure of merit, life, and allowable stresses in the thermoelements and place limitations on the hot side temperature, physical constraint of the thermoelements, and allowable heat flux density. These parameters then directly effect the weight, power density, and efficiency of the final unit. This paper emphasizes the importance of the engineering relations between these parameters and describes in detail a specific design solution to the problems involved giving performance for the fabricated unit."
"A method of calculating the performance limits of multi-stage thermoelectric devices is derived by a direct thermodynamic approach and a comparison is made between multi-stage and single stage devices. The results are then applied to the design of feasible multi-stage devices that closely approximate these limits. The calculations indicate that at present there is little advantage in using more than one stage in a thermoelectric generator. In the case of a thermoelectric refrigerator however, a practicable multi-stage device should be able to produce a temperature reduction about twice as great as that obtainable with a single stage device. This at present corresponds to a maximum temperature reduction of approximately 135°C for the multi-stage device. The approximate limits of feasible temperature reduction are calculated as a function of the value of the figure of merit Z. This calculation indicates that even if materials are improved by an order of magnitude or more it will probably never be feasible to construct a thermoelectric refrigerator that can cool to cryogenic temperatures while operating from a room temperature ambient."
"The paper describes a microspot tube for ultra-high resolution on a large face. With a spot diameter of 8 microns, the tube can scan a square of 8 cm in 10,000 lines, using 42° magnetic deflection. This is equivalent to the display of 100 million dots on a five-inch face. While the beam power at 20 kilovolts is only 30 mw, the power loading on the screen is 60 kilowatts per square centimeter! Vapor deposited, filmed phosphor developed by Dr. D. Cusano have been found to stand up well under these conditions. The electron-optics includes many novel features. One of these is the use of a resistive helix in the neck which effectively doubles the electrical length of the neck. Another is the use of a tiny object aperture (.0005\") which is illuminated by over 20 amperes per square centimeter. This enormous intensity is generated by a microgun which uses a matrix cathode at an emission density of only 2 amperes per square centimeter."
"A two-color direct-view storage tube has been developed which is capable of displaying stored information in either of two primary colors, or in hues which are intermediate on the I. C. I. chromaticity diagram. Operation makes use of the fact that flood electrons which pass through the holes in the storage surface potential is near cutoff, fall within small areas on the viewing screen opposite the storage mesh holes, whereas flood electrons which pass through the holes when the potential is near its maximum, i. e., flood gun cathode potential, fall on larger overlapping areas on the viewing screen. The viewing screen consists of a pattern incorporating two phosphors, one of which occupies small areas in register with the storage mesh holes and the other, areas surrounding the first. The tube, which has been built in the 10\" size, can be operated with simple circuitry, essentially the same as that required for conventional half-tone storage tubes."
"This objectionable phenomenon has always plagued the manufacture of storage tubes. Some theories have been offered to help determine the cause and remedy for this defect. However, a solid scientific explanation seems lacking. This defect is so severe at times that some storage tube manufacturers have felt obligated to specify the output brightness of their product as \"equilibrium\" brightness, instead of \"saturated\" brightness. The authors have determined experimentally and will endeavour to prove theoretically that this phenomenon is caused by uncontrolled grid emission from the flooding or viewing gun grid. The various tests conducted to substantiate this theory are explained and the results analyzed. The scientific explanation, which is based on the characteristic curve of secondary emitters, is offered. Several additional effects of flood gun grid emission are disclosed and explained."
"The interest in this class of tubes for application in timing, scaling, checking and simple computing equipment is increasing. Essential improvements in stability could be realized as a result of better understanding of the physical backgrounds and the introduction of modern tube technology. Three different tube types are discussed in more detail, one of these being a completely new kind of tube for use as a low-signal indicating device, specially suited for transistor scalers. Information is given on the reliability and life expectancy of cold-cathode tubes."
"A ten-channel switch tube with five stages of electron multiplication has been developed. The advantages are low crosstalk, low beam potential, electrostatic deflection, and light weight. This tube will be used to convert wide-band information from a single channel into ten channels of information that can be transmitted over standard telephone cables in telemetering operations. Venetian-blind dynodes are used for the multiplier structure. Each channel is defined by a louver on the dynode desk. U-shaped shields are Used to minimize crosstalk. The channel length is 0.120 inch, or a total length of 1.2 inches for the ten channels. The collector system provides a method for equalizing the gain of all the channels. Operating at a 2-kv beam potential with 5-µa beam current, the tube provides 20 ma of output current, with less than 5% crosstalk to adjacent channels. The electron optics and the performance of the tube are described."
"This paper describes the construction and characteristics of a novel grid controlled cold cathode visual indicator in a T-2 bulb designed for use with transistors. The tube has a keep-alive cathode and a perforated keep-alive anode located at the start of the positive column. Electrons emerging from holes in the anode have an energy of 1 electron volt or less so that -2 volts between a control grid and the keep-alive anode is sufficient to cut off the flow. The main cathode is made of zirconium to reduce sputtering and is planar with a small hole to allow the electrons to enter the main discharge region to initiate the discharge. The main anode is the last electrode in the linear array and is made of wire to minimize obstruction of the light from the negative glow dose to the cathode. A relaxation circuit is used to supply the keep-alive discharge with heavy bursts of current for efficient triggering of the main discharge. Reset is automatically accomplished when a half-wave rectified power supply is used. The lamp was designed for end viewing and an average keep-alive current of 17 microamperes is supplied by a 250 volt supply."
"Parametric interaction can be interpreted classically as the scattering of waves or quantum mechanically in terms of the collision of coherent trains of particles. In this paper we would like to illustrate the significance of these classical and quantum concepts in the development of a broad class of new devices. The concept of traveling wave parametric interaction in a periodic medium will be extended to three dimensions. It will be shown that these device concepts apply not only to electromagnetic waves but also to Other types of interaction involving elastic waves, spin waves, etc. The particle view would interpret the parametric interaction as the annihilation or creation of photons, phonons, magnons, etc. The particular case of phonon-phonon interaction will be used in discussing electronically tunable parametric amplifiers. In this case the crystal structure becomes the parametric medium supporting the pump, signal and idler waves. The anharmonicity of the crystal supplies the interaction between the three waves."
"Device characteristics of GaAs diffused-junction varactor diodes are discussed. The maximum cutoff frequency (at breakdown voltage) is greater than 500,000 megacycles, and the breakdown voltage is as high as 20 volts. Junction capacitances from 0.1 to 1 micromicrofarad at -1 volt have been obtained, and a minimum dissipative resistance value of 0.8 ohm has been measured at 2000 megacycles. The design considerations for which the exponent, n, in the capacitance-voltage relation is between 0.4 to 0.5 are discussed. The geometry of the diode, the packages employed, and their electrical characteristics are presented. These packages exhibit the lowest capacitance in conjunction with lowest inductance of any package available."
"The noise generated by tunnel diodes in amplifier circuits is directly proportional to the product of the negative resistance and current at the operating point in the negative resistance portion of the I-V characteristic. In this paper, the factors influencing the negative resistance-current product, referred to as the shot noise constant K, will be discussed. Design factors that can be introduced to minimize K, and limitations thereof, will be reviewed. Experimental results on germanium tunnel diodes designed for low noise amplification will be presented to show the correlation of experimental measurements with the theoretical background discussed previously. A new approach to the problem of obtaining low noise constant diodes will then be presented. This includes: a) Reasons for the selection of gallium antimonide as a choice semiconductor material for low noise tunnel diodes. b) A review of the metallurgy of this material and a general description of GaSb tunnel diode fabrication technology, c) A summary of results achieved to date showing the superiority of GaSb tunnel diodes over germanium units for low noise amplifier applications."
"A major problem of high-speed tunnel diodes has been poor reliability due to fragility of the very small area junctions needed for low capacitance. This paper describes a solution to the problem, based upon building a mechanical support very close to the junction. Important factors in the selection of the geometry of the supporting structure are discussed. Two general fabrication methods are presented and compared. Electrical and mechanical characteristics and short-term reliability test results are given for diodes made by the processes described."
"A hard-glass kovar encapsulation technique for hermetically sealing diffused silicon mesa diodes is described. The seal-in operation is a hot-seal technique, since the glass parts of the package reach temperatures from 800°C to 1000°C during the final sealing operation, and the silicon wafer is exposed to high temperatures during closure of the package. Experiments with this structure indicate that this hot-seal process leads to a relatively clean, dry environment and a stable semiconductor surface. Electrical characteristics of silicon wafers are preserved or improved by hot seal-in, and the encapsulated diodes exhibit a high degree of electrical stability."
"Modern computer design has created a demand for large quantities of high speed logic diodes and transistors. To be technically and economically feasible extreme reliability must be combined with high performance at the lowest possible cost. The glass sealed planar devices described in this paper were designed to fill these specific requirements. The need for a costly header was eliminated by hermetically sealing each device with a thin glass film. A single sided structure was chosen to simplify interconnection problems. Fabricating terminals, as an integral part of the chip structure, permits interconnection with a high degree of flexibility and eliminates the need for thermocompression bonding. Surface passivation with silicon dioxide and difficulties of glass application are discussed in conjunction with the problems of ohmic contracts to P and N silicon, contact lands over passivated junctions, capacitance of contact lands, and hermetic glass-to-metal seals. Performing all fabrication steps on wafers having mass arrays of devices permits a significant reduction in device cost. Processes and photoengraving techniques for making the devices are described. Data on the electrical and life test performance is presented and evaluated."
"Ion implantation provides a new PN junction formation technique that is at once more controllable and more versatile than either alloying or diffusion. It is based on doping by a coherent positive ion beam from a high energy accelerator. For convenient accelerator size, the technique is limited to devices having shallow junctions such as solar cells. The penetration depth of heavy ions in crystalline materials is extremely sharp and is a function of ion energy. Consequently voltage control of the accelerator allows placement of the junction with millimicron accuracy. Doping levels are dependent on beam current and time. Since ion energy and irradiation time are independent, the doping profile obtainable by the technique may be chosen at will. Boron was accelerated in a 2 million electron volt Van de Graaff generator to produce 1 × 1 cm solar cells with various junction depths and doping gradients. The effects of junction depth on cell efficiency were studied as was the effect of a built in drift field. Work was also conducted on the effect of carrier concentration on cell efficiency arid on the effect of annealing on carrier concentration."
"Electrical properties of alloyed junctions in InSb have been observed to depend significantly on crystallographic polarity. Junctions prepared by alloying to the face terminating in In atoms have consistently exhibited unusually low breakdown voltages not exceeding1\\frac{1}{2}volts. All high breakdown (10-16 volts) junctions were those prepared by alloying to the reverse (Sb) face. Reverse current also appears markedly higher in junctions prepared using the In surface. These observations correspond reasonably with Gatos, Moody and Lavine's report on InSb crystal growth indicating the dependence of single and dislocation free crystal growth on"
"This paper describes the development of a high power microwave switch utilizing a multipactor discharge which exhibits nanosecond rise, recovery, and switching times. The device is an evacuated cavity of the reentrant type containing two electrodes which are good secondary electron emitters. With r-f power applied, a strong multipactor current discharge takes place between the electrodes causing most of the incident power to be reflected, which describes one operating state of the device. One of the electrodes is d-c insulated from the other, allowing the application of an external control voltage. If a sufficiently high voltage is applied, the discharge can be quenched and the cavity appears as a passive transmission device. The other operating state is thus described as a transmission device."
"The operation of a new type of crossed-field amplifier called the DEMATRON will be described. This device is in the final stage of development. To date, various developmental models of the DEMATRON have yielded, at X-Band, a pulsed power output of 500 kw, 13 db gain, 15% bandwidth, and 35% efficiency. The DEMATRON is a forward-wave, crossed-field amplifier with non-reentrant beam and wave. It utilizes distributed emission, that is, its cathode extends all the way along the interaction space. Due to its large cathode, the DEMATRON has excellent potential as a low-impedance, very high power tube. Its slow-wave structure which is of the folded waveguide type has exhibited very good thermal characteristics."
"This paper describes a new type of microwave coaxial gas switch tube which utilizes an electronically controlled pulsed hydrogen arc discharge. The device fires in a few tenths of a microsecond and recovers in a time of the order of 10 microseconds. It covers a frequency range extending from below 1 Gc/s to above 4 Gc/s. The tube operates over a wide range of pulsed peak input powers, from microwatts to hundreds of kilowatts, depending upon the particular application. Its unfired insertion loss and its arc loss are of the order of 0.1 db and 1 db respectively and its leakage isolation exceeds 50 db. The tube consists of a section of 7/8\" coaxial line sealed off at each end by ceramic windows. Portions of the inner and outer conductors are gridded and together with a heated cathode and an anode provide an electrode structure similar to that in conventional hydrogen thyratrons. A number of tubes utilizing different electrode structures have been built and tested and are described. Switching is accomplished by creating an arc between the electrodes. Upon application of a trigger voltage, a previously charged pulse forming network discharges through the tube, The resultant electron density is of the order of 1012per cm3and acts like a short circuit to the incident microwaves. The results of measurements of the switch's firing time, recovery time, insertion loss, leakage, holdoff power and noise figure at both L and S-bands are presented and discussed."
"A new device--the mercury-arc oscillator--is proposed for the conversion of low-voltage, high-current d. c. to a. c. at the voltage level of convential a.c. systems. Operation depends on the interruption of a constricted mercury column and subsequent arc formation when a low d. c. voltage (<10v) is applied to it. The phenomena involved are first discussed in relation to arc discharge in mercury-arc rectifiers, circuit breakers and EWP. Theoretical and experimental studies show that the magnetic pinch effect initiates circuit interruption and that high field emission is responsible for arc maintenance. An expression for the oscillation frequency is obtained and compared with results obtained using a 0.031 in. diameter capillary constriction over the pressure range from 106 mm Hg to 1 atmosphere. Methods of frequency control are discussed and an experimental device operating on a d.c. supply of 4-8 volts at a current of 100-160 amps with a frequency in the range 60-250 cps is described. The factors affecting duty factor are considered and typical device geometry and operating conditions for this factor to be 50% are given. There are brief discussions of frequency stability and of parallel and push-pull operating characteristics."
"Internal noise in a traveling-wave tube drives from two principal sources, the electron beam and the helix. Noise arising from loss in the helix can influence the noise figure of the tube in two ways. First, thermal noise in the helix propagates as a wave, that component which is synchronous with the beam being amplifier in the same way as the signal. Secondly, the amplifying properties of the tube are influenced by loss and hence affect noise figure. The latter effect can be estimated by considering the circuit loss term in the minimum noise figure expression of Haus and Robinson. An analysis of the effect of amplified thermal noise is presented and is shown to result in the addition of another term, involving helix temperature, cold attenuation per unit length, and tube gain per unit length, to the minimum noise figure expression. The results of several experiments in which TWT's were immersed in liquid nitrogen while monitoring noise figure are described. Noise figure decreases of between 0.5 and 0.8 db were measured upon cooling. The experimental results are in reasonably close agreement with the theory. The possibility of practical application of helix refrigeration techniques is considered briefly."
"The problem of space-current calculation is reviewed briefly to point out the inadequacy of the classic solution for modern close-spaced electron tubes. A more accurate solution for the space current is obtained by calculating the current distribution from the potential field in the grid-cathode space, corrected for space charge and initial electron velocities. A machine program set up on a large high-speed computer permits the calculation of complete voltage-current characteristics and their derivatives from basic input data. A brief account of the sequence of machine operations illustrates the large number of detailed steps and the flexibility of the program. The accuracy of the calculations is demonstrated by a comparison of the computed and measured characteristics of a nuvistor triode."
"A 5 to 12 KMG, 10 to 40 watt CW, traveling-wave amplifier tube weighing about one pound including focusing magnet is described. This tube has been developed especially for space-flight application. In addition to the light weight and relatively high power output, the design features high efficiency, obtained by a two potential depressed collector, wide operating temperature range, extreme ruggedness and long life."
"This TWT was especially developed for the service in a satellite repeater. The application necessitated heavy emphasis on high efficiency, long life, reliability, and ruggedness for launch. An overall efficiency of 31% is achieved with an electronic efficiency which exceeds 36% and a ruggedized heater that requires about 1.5 watts. The collector is depressed to less than half the helix voltage. The tube is designed for a life in excess of 10 years and every precaution is taken to make it extremely reliable. The focusing structure is a \"Single Reversal Magnet\". This new method reduces the weight of the PM material by more than a factor of four over a straight field magnet, yet it retains its excellence of focusing. Although it is heavier than the PPM circuit, it requires much fewer critical machined parts. Beam transmission of better than 99% have been measured with full power output."
"New results concerning a two watts c. w. two millimeter Carcinotron are shown, to be used as a basis for an evaluation of further possibilities in the generation of higher powers at higher frequencies. It is the feeling of the authors that the ultimate performances of the conventional devices have been somewhat underestimated in the past and that useful operation can be obtained in the submillimeter region. To demonstrate this point they discuss the feasibility of tubes in the 0.5 mm- 0.3 mm region. They give laboratory results obtained with tubes operated well below 1 mm."
"In a non-degenerate electron beam parametric amplifier (EBPA), signal and idler frequencies are far apart. This contrasts with the more familiar degenerate type which uses a pump frequency approximately equal to twice the signal frequency, thus placing the idler near the signal. The non-degenerate EBPA shares with its better-known degenerate counterpart some desirable properties, such as unilateral amplification and the ability to take high overload; in addition, it is a single-channel device. On the other hand, it is more difficult to construct."
"A traveling-wave tube will be described which is designed specifically for space communication applications where high efficiency, long life, high reliability and low weight are important. The tube operates in the 2.0 to 2.4 Gc telemetry band at a power output in excess of 12 watts and exhibits overall efficiency including heater power of 27 percent at band center. The tube has greater than 30 db saturation gain. The tube is designed to give greater than 30,000 hours life. This is accomplished by low cathode temperature operation, ion blocking, low beam interception and high temperature tube processing."
"The advent of parametric amplifiers has resulted in the evolution of a new breed of reflex klystron oscillators. To be discussed in this paper are two types of reflex klystron oscillators which are undergoing concurrent development. The parametric amplifiers for which the reflex oscillators are being developed have signal frequencies in C- or X-band. For parametric amplification to function a pump frequency must be supplied which is nearly an integral harmonic of the signal frequency. For instance, since X-band is from 8.2 to 12.4 Gc, the second harmonics are 16.4 to 24.8 Gc. Thus the tubes to be described are advanced state-of-the-art reflex klystron oscillators, in both K- and Ku- band, that represent a factor of ten improvement in frequency-temperature stability over other previously reported current-state-of-the-art reflex tubes."
"Silicon unipolar transistors have been designed and fabricated using a shallow channel diffusion into lightly doped substrate material. The main gate is formed by diffusion of impurities of opposite conductivity type into selected areas of the channel region. Conventional photo-resistoxide masking techniques are used for defining electrode dimensions. The transistors are characterized by a transconductance which decreases linearily with increasing gate voltage. Such a characteristic is desirable for mixers. A theoretical analysis shows that impurity profiles obtained by diffusion are a sufficient approximation for the ideal case. Electrical device characteristics and equivalent circuits will be outlined."
"The cryosistor is a new three-terminal device in which the low temperature (4.2°K) impact ionization of impurities in germanium is controlled by means of the depletion field effect of a reverse-biased p-n junction. In compenstated germanium, impact ionization breakdown occurs at a critical electric field value with a resulting bistable voltage-current characteristic and the formation of a filamentary ionized current path. In a structure resembling the unipolar transistor a reverse biased gate junction can reduce the area of a conducting channel, between the source and drain ohmic contacts, to below the minimum value of filament area necessary to sustain breakdown. This provides the possibility of bistable switching in and out of the ionized state by means of pulses applied to a biased gate. The critical gate voltages can be calculated from elementary considerations, and with suitable choice of physical dimensions and material, a wide range of values of switching voltages and of power dissipation is possible, The switching speed is limited by the ionization and recombination times of the bulk material and may be as fast as a few nanoseconds, depending upon the amplitude of the switching pulse."
"The current voltage characteristics of thin metal, metal oxide structures of the type, M, MO, M' where M is tantalum or niobium and M' is aluminum, have been measured for oxide thicknesses ranging from 30 Å to approximately 300 Å. The current voltage curves in general can be described by the Fowler-Nordheim relationship.J = A E^{2}e^{-\\Phi/E}where J is the current density, E is the applied field, and is the height of the potential barrier between the metal, M, and its oxide. The observed dependence of the I-V curves on temperature between 77°K and 450°K suggests that in addition to tunneling, other mechanisms are operative in the conduction through the structures. These mechanisms will be discussed. In addition, the application of these results to five layer structures which can exhibit triode behavior will be presented."
"If the geometrical thickness w of a semiconductor is smaller than the diffusion length of its carriers, the response time of its photomagnetoelectric (PME) effect becomes dependent on w, decreasing with decreasing w, while at the same time its voltage sensitivity increases. A germanium device, e.g., in which the sample is placed between the poles of a small permanent magnet produces output voltages of 200 mw with response times of well below 1 µsec at high light intensities. The thin Ge wafers used in this device were obtained by controlled photoetching of single crystals to a thickness of 6 microns whereby the current leads for the etching are arranged in such a way that they serve later as PME leads. The characteristics of the cell are presented in detail and show a voltage sentry almost independent of the light wavelength from the visible to up to 1.9 microns as well as its dependence on the incident light intensity and the temperature. Since the device does not contain junctions, only thermal noise is expected. Preliminary tests with PME cells which are photovoltaic and therefore do not need any power supply reproduced 1 µsec light flashes, and also the fine structure of ruby Laser signals with the same resolution as photomultiplier tubes."
"A matrix of back biased p-n junction diodes, irradiated, one at a time, by a 10-30 KV electron beam can be used as a high-speed, high-current, multiposition driver. The operating characteristics of this device can be made to be compatible with its use as a decoder and driver in an ultra-fast, magnetic-core, memory system. The diodes, switched by the electron beam, can be designed to have better elctrical charactristics than the conventional common-emitter transistor switch circuits. For a given current density, the transistor switching speed is limited by discharge of the base-collector capacity and charge neutralization of the excess minority carriers in the base. Because the electron beam creates hole-electron pairs in the diode, the excess minority carriers are automatically neutralized and it is this characteristic that allows the diode design to give either higher back voltage, or faster rise time characteristics. In this paper, simple design procedures, for diodes to operate in the 5-50 nsec range and with 1 amp output will be presented. Experimental results, obtained with diffused silicon junctions, will be discussed."
"An dectroluminescent element becomes polarized when it is pulsed with a direct voltage. That is, it has a memory of the pulse polarity. If the element is later pulsed with a voltage of the same polarity, it emits a flash of light. If instead the later pulse is of opposite polarity, then the light flash is substantially brighter. The polarization has a decay time up to several seconds. This capability of memorization and interrogation suggests that an electroluminescent element can be used for the temporary storage of information. To store a binary 1, the element is supplied with a write pulse of negative polarity. Interrogation is accomplished with a positive read pulse, and a gated photomultiplier responds to the light output. To store a 0, no negative pulse is supplied. Fast-decay electroluminescent phosphors were evaluated for memory device application. A particular phosphor gave a signal-to-noise ratio of 8 for a storage time of 20 millisec. and 10 for a storage time of 2 millisec. The readout time was 2 microsec. Experiments indicate that high storage density can be obtained in a crossed-grid electroluminescent pand having a non-linear resistance layer to eliminate crosstalk."
"In linear-beam tubes such as the traveling-wave amplifier successful conversion of the d-c kinetic energy of the electrons to r-f depends critically upon the successful maintenance of the center of gravity of the charge bunch in the proper phase relative to a collinear traveling r-f wave. To study phase focusing the large-signal equations have been modified to accommodate spatially varying parameters such as the circuit phase velocity or variable d-c energy through the application of a d-c gradient. These variations can be preprogrammed on a computer or the computer made to select optimum variations based on suitable criteria. Theoretical calculations indicate that tapering of the circuit phase velocity will result in a modest increase of the saturation efficiency and conditions for maximum small-signal gain and maximum saturation output are brought close together. The application of a d-c gradient leads-to higher gain in longer tubes with efficiencies comparable to the tubes before modification. The effects of these variations and modifications on gain and efficiency will be discussed in detail."
"An investigation of the use of high-thermal-conductivity materials in microwave tubes is being conducted with particular emphasis on improving the average power handling capability of the traveling-wave tube helix structure. The normal helix structure supported by sapphire or alumina rods inside a glass or metal vacuum envelop must dissipate the heat generated by r-f losses and d-c beam interception primarily by radiation since cooling by conduction through the support structure is generally negligible. If the helix is supported in a fluted cylinder which is fabricated out of a high-thermal conductivity material, the traveling-wave tube is capable of operating at a much higher power level for a given helix temperature."
"Modern electron tubes have the well-known major requirements of high mutual conductance i.e. small separation between grid and cathode, minimum noise level and low cut-off current. In order to provide for these conditions the oxide coating must be dimensioned to very small tolerances. The conventional and new coating techniques of spraying, painting, settling and printing are described. Further means of obtaining smooth oxide coating especially the application of centrifugal forces as well as the shaping of coatings i.e. pressing, shaving, turning etc. are discussed. The properties of cathodes prepared by the above-mentioned techniques are presented. Results obtained about surface roughness, coating thickness, edge contour, coating adherence and shrinkage are compared. Furthermore the influence of the carbonates used, of the milling time and of other processing parameters is outlined. The usefulness of these processes depends upon the geometrical configuration of the cathode sleeve. Painting, for example, is appropriate for cylindrically shaped sleeves while settling, and especially centrifugal spraying, are adapted to planar type cathodes. The latter method provides especially good coating adherence. Sharp edges may be obtained by using the printing technique."
"A method is described for measuring elevations of potential in a region, such as a plasma column, by detecting variations in the time of flight of an electron beam directed through the region. The use of a very small current of relatively high energy electrons as a probing beam results in an extremely small disturbance of the space charge distribution within the beam, and enables measurements to be made in the interior of a plasma without the insertion of metallic electrodes. The electron beam is intensity modulated at high r-f frequency by a conventional crt gun, and is made to impinge on a collector specially designed to minimize the effects of deflection due to the electric fields encountered in flight. Variations in time of flight are detected by comparing the phase of the collector signal with that of the modulating waveform in a coincidence-type phase detector whose output is linearly proportional to phase difference. The output signal is proportional to the integral of the potential elevation over the path length. Sensitivity of the measurement is of the order of 10 volt-centimeters, with a frequency response extending from zero frequency to 1 megacycle. Means for calibrating the instrument are described. Circuit diagrams and construction details of the collector are presented. This technique has been developed as a diagnostic tool, and is currently being used in studies of pulsed plasmas for electrostatic propulsion."
"Ladder lines comprise simple, mechanically rigid, and easily fabricated periodic structures. Planar ladders have a limited bandwidth. Two new non-planar ladder-derived delay lines, the X-line and the skew-bar line are discussed. The X-line may be considered as two intersecting planar ladder lines, while the skew-bar line is a twisted planar ladder line. ωβ-diagrams have been measured revealing two pass bands for the X-line. In addition, the effect of various parameters such as the angle between adjacent bars, the period, and the ratio of the beam aperture and the bar length have been studied."
"The life span of a heater in an electron tube is in large measure governed by the effects of high-temperature operation on the physical properties of the heater wire. Darkening the normally white heater coating improves its thermal radiation properties and makes it possible to reduce the operating temperature of the heater wire by up to 350 degrees Kelvin for normal cathode temperature. Data obtained from more than a million tube hours of accelerated life-testing on a wide range of tube types demonstrates a tremendous improvement in heater reliability as a result of the lower operating temperature of the dark heaters. Other benefits accruing from the use of this heater include reduced heater-cathode hum and leakage, increased heater surge-voltage capability, and constant heater input power during life. The unique features of this heater also open up new avenues for tube design, such as a reliable, heavy-duty, line-operated (117-volt-heater) rectifier tube for use in TV and hi-fi applications."
"In the design of electrostatic lenses, a rapid and reliable method of determining electron trajectories is required. This paper describes a demountable vacuum system incorporating an electron gun, deflection plates, clyindrical lenses and a pair of phosphor coated mesh structures. The various parts are assembled on heavy bases which rest on precision ground and graduated glass rods. A vacuum sealed push-rod permits adjusting the relative positions of the lenses during testing. The electron beam passes through the parallel phosphor coated meshes and the lighted spots are observed by means of a cathodometer to determine beam landing angle. The complete device thus provides a tool for measuring not only the effects of changing the potentials of electrostatic lens elements but of changing their relative positions as well during a single test. The complete system is called an \"electron optical bench\" and also includes a simple 9 × 9 dot pattern generator. The pattern of dots viewed on the phosphor meshes will quickly reveal aberration due to lens distortion."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Contains an entry for each conference attendee."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Equipment to perform a great variety of tasks within hostile environments has been designed and built utilizing well-proven electronic techniques. Such systems perform most of the operations which would be performed manually were it possible for a man to enter the hazardous area. Examples of hostile environments include space, the ocean, nuclear laboratories, and numerous others. A simple trinary coding command system has proved quite practical and is capable of commanding mobile remote systems having 50 or more degrees of freedom. Conventional closed-circuit television systems may be used for driving and steering remotely-controlled vehicles and for accomplishing manipulative tasks. Two or more such cameras are highly desirable for obtaining good spatial perception. Examples of remotely-controlled systems for hostile environments include the Hughes Mark II Mobot system for nuclear hot laboratories, the RUM (Remote Underwater Manipulator) built by Scripps Institute of Oceanography for scientific and military operation in the depths of the ocean, and a variety of outdoor remotely-controlled vehicles designed and operated by Engineer Research and Development Laboratory at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, and by Air Force Special Weapons Center in Albuquerque, New Mexico."
"This new system of communications makes use of tropospheric scatter for the transmission of digital information over long distances more reliably than high frequency radio; more economically than wire; less vulnerably than microwave or VHF and cheaper than conventional tropospheric scatter systems. Using only a narrow-band width, it can be used for transmission of data (teletype, telemetry, canned messages, facimile, etc.) over distances of upwards to 500 miles, using relatively low power transmitters and simple antenna systems. It will provide a useful link in the radio communication systems for many government agencies, both military and non-defense. While limited to these under the present regulations, it has potential for use for commercial applications in the future."
"A unity gain ground plane antenna of greatly reduced size is presented. The ground plane consists of four evenly spaced sloping helices. The fed element is constructed of double helical windings. All the helices are enclosed in Fiberglas tubes."
"A single wideband channel could be assigned to all short range emergency communication systems, resulting in better service and better spectrum utilization. Many independent VHF or UHF mobile users or military nets could use this one channel at random without any form of centralized control or synchronization, and each could transmit different simultaneous emergency messages without significant mutual interference. In reviewing wideband modulation and addressing (coding) techniques, it is shown that Delta modulation and discrete frequency coding is best suitable for this application."
"An equipment design is described in which transistors are employed in both receiver and transmitter to reduce power drain and increase reliability. The following design objectives are believed successfully met: Low power drain in receive condition. Tuning adjustments minimized by use of lumped ferrite filters for both first and second I.F. selectivity of receiver. All components easily and quickly accessible for maintenance. Up to eleven r.f. channels available within a one Mc/s band for both receiver and transmitter. Thus particularly adaptable to Maritime VHF. Manufacturing cost of same order as vacuum tube designs of similar r.f. power output. A detailed description is given of a compact unit, suitable for either underdash or trunk mounting in vehicular installations."
"An experimental 150 MC personal signaling system has been set up in New York City to evaluate over-all technical performance and explore subscriber reactions to the system. The system includes pocket receivers equipped with tuned reeds and central office arrangements adapted for direct customer dialing. The paper describes the system in over-all terms, and tells how it was engineered. It also compares this system with present 35 MC systems and discusses traffic and radio transmission problems."
"A recently released FCC Notice of Proposed Rule Making, Docket No. 13847, contains a proposal to subdivide the existing 50 kc channels in the 450-470 mc private land mobile band into twice as many 25 kc channels. Field and laboratory tests conducted to date indicate that the proposed technical standards can be successfully implemented in closely controlled test systems. Some significant problems may arise in actual \"user\" systems, however, if transmitters and receivers are not properly netted and held to a close RF channel tolerance. Considerable attention must be given to the various factors which determine the amount of receiver performance degradation experienced, if successful implementation of \"same area\" adjacent channel operation is to be achieved. Existing 450 mc equipment of recent manufacture should provide adequate performance in most systems until the 25 kc split channels are assigned to new users in the same area."
"Radio Transmitters: Definitions of Terms"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Listings are by month and page, and include authors of papers, authors of correspondence items (C), and reviewers of books (B)."
"Listings are by month and page. Authors and paper titles may be determined from the tables of contents in the front part of this index."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"The problems of heuristic programming-of making computers solve really difficult problems-are divided into five main areas: Search, Pattern-Recognition, Learning, Planning, and Induction. A computer can do, in a sense, only what it is told to do. But even when we do not know how to solve a certain problem, we may program a machine (computer) to Search through some large space of solution attempts. Unfortunately, this usually leads to an enormously inefficient process. With Pattern-Recognition techniques, efficiency can often be improved, by restricting the application of the machine's methods to appropriate problems. Pattern-Recognition, together with Learning, can be used to exploit generalizations based on accumulated experience, further reducing search. By analyzing the situation, using Planning methods, we may obtain a fundamental improvement by replacing the given search with a much smaller, more appropriate exploration. To manage broad classes of problems, machines will need to construct models of their environments, using some scheme for Induction. Wherever appropriate, the discussion is supported by extensive citation of the literature and by descriptions of a few of the most successful heuristic (problem-solving) programs constructed to date."
"The class of self-organizing systems represented by networks which learn to recognize patterns is reviewed from an historical standpoint, and some of the behavioral similarities between such nets and biological nervous systems are discussed. Examples and results of several experimental models for alphanumeric character recognition are presented. The network synthesis problem is then recast in terms of redundant information removal, multivariable curve-fitting and expansion in orthonormal functions. Recognition network structures and the learning process are described from these points of view. The potential component and behavioral advantages to be gained from sequential feedback networks are discussed briefly."
"Multilevel storage, gating, controlling threshold-level, and summation are basic functional operations common to several systems for the simulation of neural behavior by electrical networks. It is shown how these may be realized very efficiently in terms of multi-apertured magnetic cores; in a typical example, only two cores of the type described by Crane are required for a circuit with threshold control of three simultaneous gates and non-destructive analog read-out. A logic element equivalent to a self-holding relay exhibits dc current gain and has compatible input-output connections."
"Methods of obtaining high speed in addition, multiplication, and division in parallel binary computers are described and then compared with each other as to efficiency of operation and cost. The transit time of a logical unit is used as a time base in comparing the operating speeds of different methods, and the number of individual logical units required is used in the comparison of costs. The methods described are logical and mathematical, and may be used with various types of circuits. The viewpoint is primarily that of the systems designer, and examples are included wherever doing so clarifies the application of any of these methods to a computer. Specific circuit types are assumed in the examples."
"Nondeterministic extensions of the nonrestoring method of binary division have been described by MacSorley [1]. One extension requires that the magnitudes of the divisor and partial remainders be \"normal,\" i. e., in the range [0.5, 1.0). This leads to a time improvement of more than two relative to conventional nonrestoring methods. Other extensions involve the use of several divisor multiples (or trial quotients). A Markov chain model is used here to analyze these methods. Steady-state distributions are determined for the division remainder and performance figures based on both this steady-state distribution and a random distribution are calculated. These are compared with the results of a computer simulation of 214 randmly-chosen division problems using two specific methods of division."
"Computer memory developments of the last decade, the present state, and efforts for improvements are surveyed. The following topics are included: principles of storage and selection of random-access memories; principles and engineering considerations of current-coincident-driven core memories; magnetic decoding and load-sharing switches; word-organized one-core and two-core-per-bit memories; fast and impulse switching; transfluxor memories; non-destructive read-out memories; ferrite apertured plates; twistors; fixed read-only memories; thin magnetic film memories-dots, sheets, coated wires and rods; present operational memories typically with capacities of 105 to 106 bits and read-write cycles of 2 to 15 Msec; likelihood of the order of 100-nsec read-write cycle times attainable with ferrite and thin film memories; consideration relating to large capacities; ferroelectric memories attempts; cryoelectric superconductive memories-principle, superconductive films, Crowe cells, continuous sheets, systems, and the outlook for large capacities; tunnel diode memories which promise a read-write cycle of the order of 10 nsec; and outlook for content addressable memories."
"An investigation was made of the problems associated with a high-speed carrier computer, and a computer subsystem was constructed employing subharmonic oscillators driven with a 3.7-kMc sine wave source. The three-phase power source was modulated at a 30-Mc rate so the interval between successive logic operations was 11 nsec. The logic module is a balanced resonant varactor circuit having a pulsed subharmonic output at 1.85 kMc and a rise time of 3 nsec. The output from each module, at a level of about 1 mw, is distributed through a network of resistors and coacial lines to the modules of the succeeding power supply phase. The logic is done at 1.85 kMc by forming a majority of three from the three inputs. Thi majority logic, with the readily available inversion operation, provides a universal set of logic gates. The subsystem consists of four main parts: the logic modules, the 1.85-kMc signal distribution, the 3.7-kMc power distribution, and the power supply. The subharmonic oscillator has advantages characteristic of a carrier computer; among these is the ability to transform impedance levels, and the ability to get a logic inversion by adding a cable length to give 180° phase change of the signal. Advantages peculiar to the subharmonic oscillator system are the simplicity of the varactor and its inherently fast operation. This approach also has a high logic gain, and provides fully timed and amplitude limited pulses at the output of each module. Three-phase operation gives an effective directivity to the single port gate."
"The tunnel diode, because of its high switching speed, wide environmental tolerance, and adaptability to digital computing circuits, has attracted much attention in the digital computer field. Efforts have been devoted to its application in both memory and logic circuits. Results have been most promising in high-speed random-access memories and in dynamic logic systems utilizing multiphase clock sources. This paper discusses the major techniques that have been reported plus some that have been developed by the authors and their associates at Bendix Research Laboratories."
"An introductory analysis of the tunnel diode locked-pair circuit is presented. The characteristics of the tunnel diode, together with the simplicity of the locked-pair circuit, make it a major contender for use as a high speed computer element. High speed and high gain are the main advantages of the locked-pairs; the three-phase power supply and lack of a simple means for logical inversion are its main disadvantages. The basic circuit consists of two tunnel diodes in series, the node common to the tunnel diodes being both the input and output terminal. As a computer element, the locked-pair functions in much the same manner as the phase-locking harmonic oscillator (PLO). Like the PLO, the locked pair overcomes the difficulty of coincident input and output terminals by using a three-phase voltage source. The feasibility of using a digital computer to solve nonlinear circuit problems is also demonstrated. A digital computer makes possisible an exact solution by doing away with relatively ineffectual linear approximation techniques. Furthermore, the stray parameters associated with laboratory work at high frequencies are excluded, thereby disclosing the true nature of the circuit."
"Thin magnetic films of permalloy have characteristics ideal for high-speed digital storage. A simple rotational model modified to include the effects of wall switching and dispersion of the preferred direction of magnetization provides a basis for describing properties of engineering interest. A selection system has been chosen which allows great latitude in film uniformity. Production of films with magnetic properties uniform to within ± 10 per cent is readily achieved. Specifications for operation in a destructive mode can easily be met by existing film arrays; the nondestructive mode is considerably more stringent unless very small signals can be tolerated. The first film memory has been in reliable operation since the summer of 1959. It has 32 ten-bit words and has been operated with a minimum cycle time of 0.4 , μsec. Higher speed and larger capacities will require higher bit densities and improved techniques to minimize undesirable coupling between drive and sense lines. The use of 10 × 60 mil rectangles, balanced sense windings, and longer words will hopefully permit memories of about 200,000 bits with cycle time under 0.2 μsec."
"A brief history of the development of the flexible-disk magnetic recorder is presented. Principles of the aeroelastic behavior of the disk and the results of a mathematical analysis of the equilibrium operating conditions are discussed. Experimental results are given which illustrate the effects of operating parameters on disk dynamics. These results indicate the design considerations necessary to produce a wide range of new storage devices. The characteristics of some of the newly developed models are presented."
"A class of techniques for character recognition is described. These techniques are characterized by the property that the only parameters of the input which are used are those which are independent of the position of the character; that is, these techniques are registration invariant. In Section I of this paper, we describe the registration invariant mathematical formalism which underlies these techniques, and in Section II we describe in more detail the physical realization of several recognition schemes based on these concepts. Some results from our computer simulation of these procedures are given."
"Increased use of computer output for decision-making has led to the need for effective computer-generated displays of symbols and lines in various formats. Two key functions involved in display generation are digital-to-image conversion, and image storage for projection. Symbol generation can be performed by use of logical and electron beam devices to create dot patterns, intensity modulated scans, mixtures of waveforms or shaped electron beams. Lines are generated as dots, line segments, or vectors. Large, bright displays are obtained by optically projecting images using CRT, photographic, electrostatic, oil film, or thermoplastic techniques. Many new developments show promise for application in computer-generated displays."
"The majority of digital communications are now carried on the teletypewriter networks. New modulation techniques, higher transmission speeds, and more effective error control schemes are being provided in systems now being introduced in the digital communications area. A considerable body of theoretical work has been completed which provides a base for most of the activity in the field; however, application of much of this work, until recently, has often been uneconomical in the current state of the art. This is most notably true in the case of error control and the practical achievement of theoretical channel capacities, but the problem also arises in other areas. The work towards a truly automatic central data processing system has been slow, but a number of projects are now showing the way in this area. These include reservation systems, centralized banking, central inventory control, air traffic control, and, above all, centralized military communications and control systems."
"A method is presented for the logical design of single-stage, combinatorial switching circuits of n variables. This method is applicable to circuits composed of threshold devices, such as magnetic cores, transistors with Kirchhoff adder inputs, parametrons, etc. A study of the constraints imposed by the form of the input portions of the threshold devices leads to the definition of certain classes of functions which are physically realizable in a single device. By the use of this method, arbitrary switching functions of as many as seven variables have been easily designed by hand computations."
"Microminiature systems have been proposed which will use packing densities on the order of 106 active elements per cubic foot. The interconnecting of these elements has been of great concern to the authors. With these packing densities in mind, the authors have suggested that a complete new theory of machine organization be found. One such method is suggested, whereby rather large sequential circuits are implemented directly from their flow table representations. This method does require more active elements, but the interconnection problem is greatly reduced."
"Cyclic codes are defined and described from a new viewpoint involving polynomials. The basic properties of Hamming and Fire codes are derived. The potentialities of these codes for error detection and the equipment required for implementing error detection systems using cyclic codes are described in detail."
"A digital system usually contains large numbers of relatively few basic circuit configurations. The over-all performance of such a system is largely limited by the characteristics of these building block circuits. If these characteristics (speed, logical gain, noise margin) are treated on a statistical basis as opposed to a worst case approach, substantial improvements in logical design flexibility may be attained. This paper reviews methods for combining statistical distributions of a set of parameters to obtain the distributions of the performance characteristics. Both algebraic and numerical (Monte Carlo) methods are considered. Transistor Resistor Logic circuits are then analyzed in more detail. Resultant distributions of propagation delays and logical gain are obtained as functions of circuit parameter distributions, logical configuration and temperature. Comparisons with worst-case design figures are made to indicate the extent to which statistical techniques improve predicted performance. In addition, some new circuit configurations, proved usable by statistical analysis, are shown to lead to greater economy and reliability."
"A general method is derived for transient analysis of complicated nonlinear dynamical systems by use of a digital computer programmed to perform tensor transformations and numerical integration. Tensor methods, adapted from Kron's techniques, are used for converting circuit data into a form for transient simulation by numerical integration. An IBM 704 program has been written for simulation of cryotron networks. This simulator has been used to study switching speeds of cross-latched cryotron flip-flops; five-stage, free-running, ring circuits; and a three-bit, self-timing, self-checking, binary, parallel adder. The adder circuit contains 233 circuit elements, including 93 cryotrons arranged in 55 meshes. Results of these studies are included."
"The merit of any high-density detection method is ultimately dependent on the \"resolution\" characteristic of the magnetic recording components. Justification of readback waveform synthesis through \"single pulse\" superposition is given. A comprehensive, yet general readback simulation program is described which will automatically, for any characteristic pulse, simulate all possible readback signal patterns and test them for specified reading logic as a function of bit density. Amplitude, phase, peak, etc., sensing are compared and the influence of parameter variation on performance indicated. Good correlation with experiment has been realized and has greatly reduced time at the bench. The significance of pulse waveform is clearly revealed and this study has provided a guide to head design (ring and probe), permitting the optimization of a total recording system for high-density storage."
"The computer system described in this paper represents a hydridization of analog and digital techniques. A wide variety of problems characterized by partial differential equations are simulated by means of a network consisting only of positive and negative resistors. No reactors are used, the negative resistors being realized with the aid of dc amplifiers. Unlike conventional analog methods, the time as well as the space variables are approximated by finite-difference expressions; thus the solution proceeds step-wise in time as on a digital computer. Only implicit difference equations are instrumented, so that there is no danger of computational instability no matter how large the time increment. Among the field problems treated by this computer are problems characterized by the diffusion equation, the wave equation, the biharmonic (beam) equation, and various modified forms of these equations."
"A new potential analog method is developed, in which both the magnitude and the angle of functions of a complex variable are calculated from their pole-zero plots. The method is based on a pair of \"factor analog\" voltage distributions in a complex plane, on which voltage measurements at the zeros and poles of the function are used for the calculation."
"In spite of a host of uncoordinated, and largely incompatible, developments in the programming field, a number of standard forms and principles are beginning to emerge. Many of the basic ideas, though known and applied in the very early days of electronic computing, have been carried to a high degree of implementation in the last few years. The tendency to overemphasize particular operational features is giving way to a healthier view that a variety of techniques are available and each has its place. They can be brought together into a special system as required for the purpose at hand, both economically and quickly, as soon as certain current efforts are brought to fruition. Unless this is done soon, the rapid advances in hardware capabilities would appear to be reaching the point of diminishing returns."
"This paper views applications which hold a promise of becoming important commercially, as well as many which are simply interesting and unusual. A number of important applications are appearing such as language translation, the computer as an aid in medical diagnosis and applications in the fields of education, music and history. Applications in government vary from a proposed simulation of emergency duties of the President of the United States to the evaluation by computers of bids for government contracts. Other applications include computer control of railroads, steamships and space vehicle tracking. Computers in communications are being used in speech compression and message switching. Computers in automobile traffic control show promise. Industrial process control on a large scale is also promising. In addition to a general applications survey, this report describes four application areas in some detail: communications, automobile trafflic control, language translation, and industrial process control."
"Modern automatic feedback-control systems are making increasing use of electronic computers as active controllers. The trend from the use of simple electric circuits and elementary analog devices toward high-speed digital computers (or computers employing both digital and analog devices) is accelerated by 1) the rapidly growing complexity of modern control systems; 2) the increasing importance of self-adaptive control; and 3) the development of optimizing control. Recent applications of computer control include the automatic control of boiler operation in an electric generating station, the adaptive autopilots for piloted aircraft, and the automatic control of load dispatching in electric power distribution."
"Transistorized, high-speed, general-purpose digital computing equipment has been designed as the primary airborne real-time calculating element for the advanced bombing, navigation, and missile guidance subsystem intended for use in the B-70 air vehicle. Because of the critical nature of this application, reliability, maintainability, and flexibility requirements received the utmost consideration in every design phase. Maximum reliability was achieved primarily through the use of a powerful, versatile, parallel main computer section supported by a minimal serial, emergency computer. A new approach to fault location enhances computer maintainability and permits in-flight repair, while flexibility is achieved by means of unique, high-speed input-output processing equipment."
"Digital simulation is a powerful tool in uncovering the basic properties of new or proposed communications principles, particularly those involving coding of visual or auditory information. Operating on digitalized speech or pictorial signals, a stored program computer can perform processing equivalent to any coding. The output signals so produced can then be made available for subjective evaluation, thereby removing the necessity for premature instrumentation to produce samples for viewing or listening. This technique owes its efficacy to 1) the availability of computers fast enough to accomplish the processing in a reasonable time scale, 2) the existence of high quality translators to implement the flow of continuous signals in and out of the computer, and 3) the creation of compiling programs which allow uninitiated investigators almost immediate access to computer facilities, and which keep programming effort low. Simulation is assuming an increasing role in communications research."
"Information processing activities in Western Europe are developing at an increasingly rapid pace. Newly created companies and many of the established business machine and electronic firms are entering this burgeoning field. A first-hand tour of major industrial and academic groups in Western Europe reveals important progress in equipment design and manufacturing techniques, as well as significant advanced development work. The United States is ahead of Western Europe, due primarily to a greater over-all research and development effort. However, there is no national boundary for creative ideas; European laboratories are developing new techniques and products for the world market, ranging from peripheral equipment to complete information processing systems. The survey of European activities is presented in three parts: an introduction, details of some important technological developments under way, and a detailed review of the characteristics of European computing systems. The technological developments indlude fixed high-speed memories, magnetic thin films, random-access memories, pattern recognition, learning machines, hydraulic logic, and problem-oriented languages."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper presents an analysis of some of the significant developments in time-varying network theory which have taken place during the past decade, with the emphasis placed on three topics: 1) characterization of time-varying networks, and in particular, transition from the impulsive response to the differential equation; 2) the problem of factorization, with emphasis on the contributions of Darlington, Batkov and Paul Levy; and 3) randomly-varying systems and, in particular, the question of stability of discrete-time systems of this type. The identification problem, the analysis of periodically-varying systems, the synthesis problem, and the filtering and prediction of nonstationary processes will be treated in Part II, to be published later."
"A compatible single-sideband (CSSB) wave is a new type of modulated wave which is compatible with existing AM receivers. Spectrum analysis and measurement indicate that if the CSSB system is applied to a conventional AM broadcast transmitter, a desired-to-undesired sideband ratio of slightly better than 30 db will be achieved under normal modulation conditions. Also described is a beat frequency problem which introduces a special type of undesired sideband component. This component falls extremely close to the carrier and should not be present during the vast majority of program conditions. Thus, the technique meets the requirement of theoretically distortion-free envelope characteristics with a good desired-to-undesired sideband ratio. Measurements are described which show the advantages of the system. It appears that the main advantage of the technique is to reduce co- and adjacent-channel interference effects. CSSB also provides a higher fidelity signal when received by conventional inexpensive broadcast receivers. The on-the-air tests indicated good listener acceptance of the new system. The system also appears to have applications in communications service where cost and size bar the use of conventional sideband techniques. The technique does not suffer from Doppler shift difficulties."
"Measurements of the field produced by a ceramic, brick-shaped magnet show that the assumption of fixed, uniform magnetization is a useful approximation to the physical state of the magnet. One consequence is that the magnetization is easily measured without disturbing the physical state of the magnet. Another consequence is that the incremental permeability of a ceramic magnet is approximately that of free space. This leads to a significant simplification in the equations describing the fields produced in magnetic circuits employing ceramic magnets. Several types of magnetic circuits are analyzed from this new point of view. A method of design optimization is developed which, in one particular case, violates the ancient criterion that the magnet operate at the point of maximum BH product. A generalized derivation of the BH energy theorem is given. The properties of steel magnets are contrasted with those of ceramic magnets. In an effort to make use of the leakage field of steel horseshoe magnets, a low-leakage ceramic-steel magnet is developed in which both magnetic materials operate at their respective points of maximum BH product. A method is described and analyzed by which the uniformity of the field produced by ceramic pole pieces is improved by covering the pole faces with thin sheets of iron."
"Electron-trigonometry is a new method to predict image formation in an electron-optical system, which may consist of one, or more, electron lenses of finite length, including electrostatic, magnetic or mixed lenses. Electron-trigonometry by-passes trajectory tracing and the determination of cardinal points. Instead, it provides immediate information about size and position of an electron image. To analyze an electrostatic system by \"electron-trigonometry,\" a given axial potential distribution is approximated by segments, which are either voltage-linear, or parabolic. These segments are joined together with continuity of function and slope. Linear sections are replaced by equivalent drift tubes whose lengths are scaled appropriately. Parabolic sections are shown to observe certain basic triangle rules about the sum of three phase angles of flight, which are specifically defined for object, image, and lens volume. Magnification and position of electron images are immediately known from these same phase angles. This includes both real and virtual images, and lenses of either polarity. A system including magnetic lenses is similarly treated. Such fields are subdivided into segments where the magnetic field is replaced by its average value while the axis potential is either linear or parabolic. As a test case, electron-trigonometry is applied to the well-known system of a two-cylinder, bi-potential lens. This is a double lens system whose axis potential distribution is not simple. The results from electron-trigonometry are in excellent agreement with recorded data of performance. In another application, electron-trigonometry is used to compute the angular magnification of a cathode ray tube with post-deflection acceleration."
"A new method of employing the combination of two signals has been developed for magnitude compression or expansion of audio or video signals and for multiplication or other uses involving modulation with separated components (e.g., instrumentation and remote control). The first signal frequency-modulates a local oscillator, whose output is limited and then amplitude-modulated by the second signal; the combined FM-AM signal is detected in such a way that the first signal is restored to its original form, but modified in amplitude by the second signal. In compression-expansion, the method controls the signal level with great speed and over a wide band without introducing noise, \"bounce,\" or dc shift into the output; no delicate balancing or matched-tube circuits are required. In multiplication, the product of two voltages can be formed by means of a simple circuit that is extremely suitable for analog computers and similar applications."
"The double-threshold method of detection calls for m or more detections in n consecutive trials to decide that a target is present. With the video coincidence techniques described, the requirement is m or more consecutive pairs, or triples, in n consecutive trials. The latter methods may increase the resistance to random interference, but a certain price has to be paid in normal radar-detection range. Important questions are, 1) If the interference has a probability p of exceeding the first threshold, what is the probability that a false target will be formed using these different techniques? 2) What is the required signal-to-noise ratio for a given probability of detection when the rate of false alarm is held constant for all three techniques? The paper develops mathematical formulas to answer such questions, and also presents graphs for the cases n = 10, 20 and 30 hits per target. Examples are worked out for n = 10."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The cryosistor is a new three-terminal device in which the low-temperature (4.2°K) impact ionization of impurities in germanium is controlled by means of the depletion field effect of a reverse-biased p-n junction. Compensated germanium has an inherent bistable voltage-current characteristic at liquid helium temperature. With such a material, bistable switching by means of pulses applied to the gate-junction located between two ohmic contacts is shown to be possible. The critical gate voltages may be calculated from elementary consideration and a wide range of values of the switching voltages, as well as power dissipation, is shown to be possible with suitable choice of material and physical dimensions. The switching speed is basically limited by the ionization and recombination times of the bulk material and may be as fast as a few nsec, depending upon the amplitude of the switching pulse. Possible applications of the device at 4.2°K include computer components such as binary counters, logic functions, and memory arrays, in addition to pulse amplifiers and trigger circuits of the thyratron type. The localized nature of the ionization should permit the construction of a large number of independent cryosistors on a single germanium wafer."
"The theory and operating characteristics of a new semiconductor tetrode is discussed in this paper. This semiconductor junction device has the usual geometry of the planar transistor, but with an additional metal electrode placed on the oxide which covers the surface of the emitter-base junction. This electrode serves as a grid. The grid-base voltage controls the surface potential, surface recombination rate and the size of the surface channel, and thereby the current gain of the transistor. In the common emitter connection the grid serves as a second input in addition to the base input. Input impedance of the grid is typically in the range of 1 to 100 pf and 1015 ohms. Transconductances dIC/dVGE of several thousand micromhos have been achieved in the common emitter connection. The cutoff frequency of the transconductance is approximately the same as that of the hfe."
"A pulsed ruby maser has been operated as a light amplifier using a ruby maser oscillator as a source. A net gain of a factor of two was observed. The dependence of the gain on temperature and pumping power agrees with theory within experimental limits."
"Thin-film superconducting components and circuits assume the form of coupled strip-transmission lines. The self and mutual inductances of these lines are important to the gain and bandwidth of the circuits. The inductances are influenced strongly by penetration of magnetic fields into the conductors. This paper gives a field solution which shows that the lowest-order mode on a thin-film superconducting strip line is a TM or E wave because of penetration effects. This mode has a non-negligible axial electric field which makes it incorrect to calculate inductance on a flux-linkage-per-unit-current basis even at low frequencies. However, the low-frequency inductance can be correctly calculated on an energy basis if the kinetic energy of the superelectrons is included in the free energy. This latter method is applied to a structure of current practical interest, that of an arbitrary number of infinitely long, very wide, thin, parallel, superimposed, closely spaced conductors above a common ground plane. All distributed self and mutual inductances with any conductor or combination of conductors in either the super or normal state are evaluated."
"A method is described which allows a reduction of the frequency-temperature shift of piezoelectric crystals by the use of bimetal elements applying temperature-dependent pressure to selected spots on the circumference of the resonator disk. A decrease in the frequency change from ±15 to ±1 parts per million can be achieved for the AT cut of quartz over a wide temperature range by using one pair of bimetallic elements for the upper and one pair for the lower temperature range. This is accomplished without any increase in the resonance resistance of the crystal. Equations and curves are developed which enable one to obtain the optimum parameters of the bimetallic elements for a given frequency-temperature curve of the crystal. An experimental device, and results achieved with it under various conditions are described in detail. It is expected that in many cases this technique will make power- and space-consuming crystal ovens unnecessary."
"Theoretical consideration is given to the problem of optical Doppler velocity determination of the high accuracy (about 1 ft/sec) required to be useful for space navigation. From the physical theory of line-broadening and -shifting mechanisms in stellar atmospheres, it is concluded that an intrinsic variability of ±200 ft/sec may be expected in the measurement of an observer's Doppler velocity. Examination of the current state of the art in measuring equipment suggests that it does not set the limits on accuracy."
"The Loran-C navigation system is capable of synchronizing and setting clocks to a relative accuracy of better than 1 μsec throughout the system's service area. A Loran-C receiver functions as a slaved oscillator and a trigger generator. The generated triggers bear a time relationship to the triggers at the master transmitter, which is known to within a microsecond. Clocks operating from these sources are compared with clocks operating from independent free-running oscillators. A fundamental relationship between time and position is considered. Loran-C as a navigation and timing system can provide both position and time simultaneously. The East Coast Loran-C chain will be time synchronized. The national frequency standards and uniform time source located at Boulder will be used to monitor these signals. Time synchronization and time distribution have been demonstrated on the Atlantic Missile Range. Inter-range time synchronization and precise time for large areas of the world could be provided in the future. Appendix I describes briefly the results of ground wave measurements made on the Loran-C (Cytac) system. Appendix II describes the results of sky wave measurements made with the system."
"The Department of Transport promulgated a new ground conductivity map for Canada as of January 1, 1961. The derivation of this map is discussed. Included is a brief account of propagation measurements at broadcast frequencies carried out by the Department in the Great Lakes region."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Although plasma phenomena have been observed in nature since the beginning of time, it is only in recent years that man has recognized the vast potential that plasmas hold for his future activities. One needs only to consider the scale of present day plasma physics experiments in order to realize the emphasis now being placed on the subject. At one extreme, there is the formation of artificial plasmas in nature such as in the Argus experiment and at the other is the study of microplasmas in tiny crystals of semiconducting material. This paper summarizes the role plasma physics is playing in present day scientific activities. A brief description is given of plasmas in nature, of the role of plasma physics in attempts at the ignition, control and diagnosis of thermonuclear fusion reactions, of the effect of plasmas on communication and telemetry from space and re-entry vehicles, of propulsion techniques (ionic, magneto-hydrodynamic, plasma) which utilize plasmas, and of the possibilities of incorporating plasmas in practical devices. In conclusion, the future prospects of plasma physics are outlined."
"This is a review paper concerned mainly with oscillations and fluctuations which have been observed to occur either spontaneously or as a result of deliberate excitation in low-pressure, hot-cathode plasmas. Experimental observations on high- and low-frequency effects occurring spontaneously are discussed, and speculations are made about the possible generation mechanisms. In many cases, theories of these mechanisms have been treated in experiments involving deliberate excitation of oscillations, and comparisons are made where relevant. For device applications, and to relieve the difficulties which occur in quantitative experiments in plasma physics, it is important that the sources of spontaneous oscillations be understood and suppressed, if possible. The paper includes a discussion of work which has been carried out to reduce these effects, and concludes with some suggestions for further lines of attack on the problems."
"The propulsion of future space vehicles by means of electrical engines appears to be the most practical and effective method for long interplanetary missions. The basic principles of the major class of such electrical engines, viz., those utilizing ionic or plasma acceleration, involve technologies familiar to and largely stemming from the work of electronics engineers and plasma physicists. This paper describes the various methods under investigation today for the acceleration and neutralization of charged particles for use in propulsion. The several topics discussed include the problem of beam neutralization, cesium ion engines, electron-bombardment engines, and magnetic plasma acceleration."
"It is well known that the dielectric property of an ionized gas in the presence of a steady magnetic field is of tensorial character. Two of the three distinct components of this tensor are functions of the steady magnetic field. Generally, these two components decrease in magnitude with an increase of the steady magnetic field, thereby improving transmission of an RF wave. The effect of a strong steady magnetic field on the transmission of an RF wave through a homogeneous and a stratified layer of ionized gas is illustrated by means of graphs. The graphs are based on certain fixed values of electron densities and collision frequencies and on certain fixed values of a steady magnetic field oriented parallel or normal to the interface, while the normally incident plane wave is either linearly or circularly polarized. It was found that the best improvement in transmission is obtained when the steady magnetic field is normal to the interface and the oncoming plane wave is circularly polarized."
"This paper reviews first the most significant results concerning wave propagation through the plasma sheath surrounding a re-entering missle; second, it presents a new evidence showing that the re-entry radio blackout can be eliminated when a static magnetic field of the order of 500 Gauss is applied through the sheath. The evidence is based on the results of an analysis of transmission and reflection losses taking place at a plasma-air interface. The analysis also shows that in the special case of the absence of collisions, (v=0) maximum transmission occurs when the signal frequency (ω) is half the gyrofrequency (ωb); the ratio of transmitted to incident power, in this case, equals approximately the ratio of gyro to plasma frequency. This result is also shown to hold when collisions are present, provided that v2<<(ωb-ω)2."
"The wave equation for the propagation of a TE wave in a plane stratified plasma sheath is solved by the method of series, and an expression for the reflection coefficient is abstracted. In special cases the series may be identified with certain known functions, and simple formulas for the reflectance are obtained. In general, however, the reflection coefficient appears as the ratio of complex infinite series."
"The investigation of antenna coupling was motivated by a study of communication with a hypersonic vehicle which upon re-entry, introduces a plasma sheath over the antennas. The model chosen for analysis consists of two infinitely-long thin slots on a ground plane covered by a uniform plasma layer which is assumed to be a lossless gaseous dielectric slab having a dielectric constant less than unity but greater than zero. The coupling effects are described in terms of a mutual admittance parameter in an equivalent π network from which other admittance parameters are derivable. The problem is formulated by spatial Fourier transforms which, upon inversion, would yield the desired results. The transform integral for the case of a thick plasma layer is evaluated approximately by the method of steepest descent. The results are explained in terms of multiple reflections of rays by the sharply defined plasmaair interface. When the quantities are plotted as functions of slot separation, the perturbations show up in the form of ripples about the curve for the unbounded plasma. In a realistic situation, there is no well-defined boundary and the rippling may show up in a statistical manner. The coupling effect is found to be less serious in the presence of a plasma than in its absence. When the operating frequency is appreciably higher than the plasma frequency, the change in driving point admittance is small. Also, inside a thick plasma layer, no unattenuating pole waves are excited."
"The total noise power available at a receiving antenna on a hypervelocity space vehicle is determined by considering the engulfing plasma sheath as a uniform slab of plasma. The noise emission from the plasma is treated as a boundary-value problem which for this simple model can be completely solved. The effect of the hot vehicle surface and other external sources is included. The general conclusions are that for an isotropic plasma the main noise contributions result from the vehicle surface for RF frequencies well below the plasma frequency, from external sources for RF frequencies well above the plasma frequency, and from direct emission by the plasma for RF frequencies about the plasma frequency. The noise power from the plasma is the most significant and exhibits a pronounced peak at an RF frequency just above the plasma frequency. The effect of an anisotropic plasma sheath (due to an auxiliary magnetic field carried by the vehicle) has been investigated for magnetic field orientations normal to and parallel to the plasma. The anisotropy completely alters the spectral characteristics of the available noise power resulting in several frequency regions of weak and intense noise emission."
"A generalized Appleton-Hartree equation is derived, applicable to any variation of electron collision frequency with electron speed and any degree of ionization. Regions of the parameters where simplification occurs are given. Results are shown for the ionosphere (60 to 320 km) and compared with experimental data. Good agreement is obtained for the D layer. Experimental data for the E layer can also be explained by assuming an electron temperature several times the gas temperature. This is consistent with rocket data and a measurement by Sputnik III. It is shown that the classic Appleton-Hartree equation should be applicable with no corrections necessary for the F2 layer, provided the collision frequency is averaged appropriately."
"The electrical conductivity of a low density and partially ionized gas where both electron-neutral particle and Coulomb type collisions play important roles is discussed. The effects of inelastic collisions and a steady magnetic field are not considered. We assume that the ionized gas is perturbed by a weak electric field, and obtain the velocity distribution function for the electrons by solving the Boltzmann equation; the collision between neutral and charged particles is accounted for by the hard sphere model for the particles, while the collision between the charged particles is taken care of by the Fokker-Planck terms. Explicit expressions for ac and dc conductivity are given for various cases. To the extent that the assumptions made for the collision models are valid, the expressions for conductivity given here are quite general and can be used for any degree of ionization."
"The phenomenon of radio frequency electromagnetic wave interaction in gaseous plasmas is reviewed. The application of microwave interaction to the study of plasmas immersed in magnetic fields is discussed. Attention is focused on the effects produced in such plasmas when one of the simultaneously propagating microwaves is in electron-cyclotron resonance. It is demonstrated that, for relatively modest amplitudes of the resonating wave, the kinetic energy of the electrons increases considerably, which in turn affects 1) the electron collision frequency and 2) the magnetic field control of the plasma confinement."
"One nonlinear property of a microwave discharge located between two closely spaced parallel plates whose dimensions are small compared to the wavelength is analyzed. This discharge geometry, with its small volume, permits the attainment of CW microwave power densities in the discharge of the order of 0.1 to 1 Mw/cm3. It is concluded that the high power density coupled with the high diffusion rate of the closely spaced parallel plates results in a modulation of the electron density at the microwave frequency. The source of this nonlinearity is postulated to be a modulation of the ionization frequency 𝒱i whose functional form is taken to be 𝒱i = α|vd| where vd is the ordered drift velocity and α is a proportionality factor constant in time. The theoretical analysis is compared to experimental results obtained by approximating the assumed geometry in an X-band and K-band frequency multiplier and in an X-band mixer. Harmonics up through the seventh at X band and up through the fourth at K band have been studied. Frequency mixing of 9- and 11-kMc signals to obtain a 20-kMc signal has yielded predictable results. Parametric amplification in a discharge is briefly considered."
"A detector of microwave energy employing a gaseous discharge is described. The principle of operation is based upon the temperature sensitivity of the electron-ion recombination rate. By photomultiplier observations of the decaying plasma afterglow, short pulses of microwave energy can be detected. At present, the minimum discernible signal strength is about one microwatt peak. The theory, experimental configuration, and prospects for improved sensitivity are discussed."
"The results of a theoretical and experimental investigation of the high-frequency interaction of an electron beam with a plasma are reported. An electron beam, modulated at a microwave frequency, passes through a uniform region of a mercury arc discharge after which it is demodulated. Exponentially growing wave amplification along the electron beam was experimentally observed for the first time at a microwave frequency equal to the plasma frequency. Approximate theories of the effects of 1) plasma-electron collision frequencies, 2) plasma-electron thermal velocities and 3) finite beam diameter, are given. In a second experiment the interaction between a modulated electron beam and a slow electrostatic wave on a plasma column has been studied. A strong interaction occurs when the velocity of the electron beam is approximately equal to the velocity of the wave and the interaction is essentially the same as that which occurs in traveling-wave amplifiers, except that here the plasma colum replaces the usual helical slow-wave circuit. The theory predicting rates of growth is presented and compared with the experimental results."
"This paper presents a simple method for the determination of the attenuation encountered by a VHF signal as it passes through a flame or the exhaust trail produced by a flame. The measurements are made of the VSWR and the shift of the minimum electric field as the ionized gases pass between two parallel plates of a short-circuited, two-bar transmission line. The relative dielectric constant and the conductivity of an ionized gas are plotted for several electron densities and collision frequencies for a frequency of 200 Mc. Another set of curves is derived from these for attenuation and minimum shift due to ionized gases in a predetermined length of transmission line. Characteristic impedance curves are also plotted. Simple Smith chart techniques are used to determine the VSWR and minimum shift when ionized gases pass through a length of shorted transmission line. The length corresponds to a half wavelength of the wave in the line with no ionized gases present. Calibration was accomplished with the use of distilled water."
"The uniform-space-charge theory of the high-vacuum, Penning discharge has been tested and supported in two experiments. In one experiment a measurement of ion energies verifies the existence of a large space-charge depression of potential along the axis of the anode cylinder. In another, the frequency of body rotation of the electron cloud is verified by allowing the cloud to interact with the structure of a split-anode magnetron. Spontaneous oscillation is obtained. The avalanche theory of the cold-cathode discharge is tested by a measurement of the noise spectrum of the discharge current. Partial confirmation is obtained, although it is finally concluded that the discharge may be dominated by other processes, such as plasma instabilities. Evidence for plasma instabilities is presented in the form of star-shaped, ion-sputtering patterns. Three possible instability mechanisms are discussed, by means of which such sputtering patterns could be formed. A useful by-product of this investigation is the discovery that a Penning \"ion-gun\" produces a naturally collimated, intense ion beam of sharply defined energy."
"A method of generating highly ionized quiescent plasmas in steady state is presented. Plasma densities in excess of 4×1012 ions/cm3 at greater than 90 per cent ionization have been obtained. The validity of double probe measurements of plasma density and temperature in the presence of a dc magnetic field up to about 1500 gauss has been established. The recombination coefficient a of highly ionized cesium plasmas up to densities exceeding 4×1012 ions/cm3 has been found to be equal to or less than 3×10-11 cm3/sec, at least an order of magnitude smaller than the lowest value published to date. A valuable technique for basic as well as applied plasma research has thus been developed and directly applicable results obtained."
"The characteristics of an auxiliary discharge thermionic energy converter are derived and compared with experimental results. It is shown that the power expended in the auxiliary discharge can be as low as 10 per cent of the power generated by the converter. Thus, efficiencies of about 25 per cent and power output densities as high as 10 w/cm2 can be obtained at temperatures of about 1500°K provided that low work function anodes are developed. The specific advantages of the auxiliary discharge technique over the conventional cesium converters are discussed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Five basic problems are associated with microscale circuits: power dissipation, thermal generation and its effects on component packing density, compatibility, adjustability and reliability. Power dissipation and its relation to circuit functions is discussed in detail and specific circuit problems are used as examples of the principles. Furthermore, it is shown that the power dissipation problems are fundamental and relate generally to all classes of electronic components. Power dissipation and heat generation are then related to packing density to determine the physical limitations of microelectronic fabrication."
"Man's ability to generate microwave power has been increasing at the rate of about 15 db per decade. Experiments performed by subjecting animals to high power indicate that hazards to personnel could exist if appropriate safety measures are not adopted and observed. This paper reviews the history of the recognition of this potential hazard and the safety measures adopted by the Bell System and others to protect personnel. Some typical and pertinent research work is discussed, and it is shown how these results have influenced the establishment of criteria for safe and potentially hazardous environments for human beings. The currently adopted safety limits of the Bell System and others are reviewed in some detail, and a recommended method of calculating power densities is derived, pointing out the limitations of the approximations used. Some of the commercially available power density meters are mentioned, and their method of operation is described. Their use in surveying a site is discussed, and the shielding effect of wire mesh fences is presented in a nomograph."
"A receiving system for the use of standard-frequency Navy and NBS VLF transmissions to phase-control a local frequency standard has been designed, built, and tested. Frequency synchronization accuracies of better than one part in 10,000,000,000 are practical, and the electronic instrumentation of the receiving system is not complex. Techniques for time synchronization to similar accuracies are not yet available; however, a time standard may be maintained in time accuracy to within 10 μsec once a synchronization is performed."
"By means of a new method, a closed-form solution is obtained for the harmonics generated by a sinusoidally varying capacitance in series with a fixed resistor and battery. The solution describes the behavior of the condenser microphone, the vibrating-reed electrometer, a vibrating plate contact potential measuring apparatus, and a special loudspeaker improvement. With only minor modifications the solution can also apply to the case of a sinusoidally varying resistance in series with a fixed inductance and battery; thus, it may, in addition, be usedl to caculate the response of a carbon microphone. The present large-signal solution, which applies for any finite values of the modulation index and frequency, is compared with previous small-signal approximate results, and the dependence on modulation index and frequency is investigated for such quantities as output waveform, total harmonic distortion, harmonic amplitude and phase, and average input and output power. A very distorted waveshape is obtained for low relative frequencies and values of the modulation index near and including unity."
"The diode, or other devices containing a unilateral element, is generally employed for rectification or detection. Ordinary carbon resistors, however, and to a more marked degree, certain symmetrical or bilateral nonlinear resistors containing no unilateral elements, can, when a pulse-type ac waveform is impressed upon them, perform a rectification process; this process may be considered solely as a circuit effect. Four basic ac-to-dc converting circuits, some of which are largely independent of temperature, and which employ symmetrical nonlinear resistors, are analyzed. If an asymmetrical waveform is available as a carrier for simple types of modulation, the symmetrical nonlinear resistor may be used as a detector with several signal-enhancing properties not usually present in the ordinary diode or square-law detection process. The nonlinear resistor detection circuit is capable of radically suppressing symmetrical interfering signals, such as Gaussian noise at one point in the signal spectrum following the detector, in this case, at zero frequency. For certain types of signal systems, this detection process can maintain for very weak signals a linear relationship between the impressed input and resulting output signal-to-noise ratios associated with the detector circuit. Two illustrative examples are given: a pseudo-rectification circuit supplying 3000-volt dc potential in a television receiver, and a circuit capable of enhancing the detection of very minute amounts of radiation impressed upon a photomultiplier."
"A digital computer has been used to simulate the passage of white, Gaussian noise through a narrow-band filter, followed by a detector and a post-detection filter. The amplitude distribution of the output of the post-detection filter has been obtained for several different detectors. In addition, the variation of false alarm rates with detector law, post-detection filtering, time constants, and threshold setting has been investigated. Not only the numerical results but also the approach, and the new detectors described are believed of interest."
"The Manley-Rowe relation, as applied in the small signal linearized approximation, may be stated as a quadratic form that is invariant under the operation of the system. It is, however, only one of the set of such forms that is invariant through a given type of system. It is shown that the existence of quadratic invariances is a consequence of the eigenvalues of the system operator being either of unit magnitude or else grouped in pairs such that one is the conjugate reciprocal of the other. If this condition applies, then there exists at least n such linearly independent forms, where n is the number of degrees of freedom of the system. Each form then specifies a quantity that is conserved by the system. Methods of determining the quadratic invariant forms from the matrix operation of the system are developed. Application is made to certain simple two-port networks to illustrate the analysis and the significance of the resulting invariances. Parametric circuits are also studied. The Manley-Rowe relation is found, as expected. Other relations, applicable to subclasses of such networks are also found. Finally, application is made to a lossy parametric shunt element, such as an imperfect nonlinear capacity. The quadratic invariances for such a device, for the two-frequency case, are derived."
"The electron beam, due to its freedom from inertia' can be made to keep its proper position to recorded information regardless of any deformation experienced by the recording medium in the interval between the recording and the reproduction. In the beam readout system described in this paper, the magnetic tape is bent over a cylinder and the electron beam is made to pass across the recorded track. The electrons close to the tape form a cycloid pattern. This pattern is deflected across the entrance slit of a Faraday collector, thereby producing an output signal corresponding to the recorded information. At present, some practical limitations prevent the full realization of the system's potential. The ultimate limitation is the shot noise of the electrons. Theoretical considerations indicate that a 3-Mc-wide video signal, for example, if suitably recorded, could be reproduced with a signal-to-shot-noise ratio of 30 db and with an area packing density of 0.85 cycle per square mil."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A new type of direct-view halftone storage tube that can selectively erase as well as simultaneously display stored and nonstored information has been developed. Heretofore, incorporation of these features into direct-view halftone storage tubes has proved impractical because of the nature of the secondary-emission effect on which the writing and erasing of stored information depend. In this new tube, this limitation is overcome by the use of a dual-effects target. One effect, secondary emission, charges the storage surface positively, while the other, bombardment-induced conductivity, charges it toward the backing-electrode potential, wihch in this case is negative. Selection of the effect and, consequently, the charging direction, is determined by the incident beam energy. At low energies secondary emission predominates and the target is written on, i.e., charged positively. At high energies, the bombardment-induced conductivity prevails and the target is erased, i.e., the positively charged areas are discharged. The two effects cancel at an appropriate intermediate beam energy, thus permitting presentation of nonstored information without otherwise disturbing the display, by means of that portion of the beam current which passes through the backing electrode and strikes the viewing screen. A 5-inch, direct-view halftone storage tube that utilizes such a dual-effects target is described. At writing speeds between 10,000 and 15,000 inches per second, the stored resolution is 40 to 50 lines per inch. At erase speeds between 30,000 and 40,000 inches per second, the stored resolution is 100 to 120 lines per inch."
"A survey is made of the available ways of using ruby, spinel, rutile and emerald in masers which amplify at frequencies small compared to their zero-field splitting frequencies. Particular attention is paid to means of taking advantage of cross relaxation which, it is shown, can give typically a two-fold improvement in maser performance. Analytic expressions for the energies are given which, to a large extent, remove the need for machine computations in the design of masers of this type."
"A second-order difference equation is derived for both periodically and uniformly distributed parametric amplifiers. Using a two-frequency approximation the gain and the voltage output of the amplifier are computed. The results are specifically applied to an LC-distributed parametric amplifier and the gain computed for a capacity modulation index of 0.5, and for different normalized pump frequencies."
"The dc theory of p-n junctions has been extended, taking into account the mobile carriers or electrons and holes in the transition region. The linearized Poisson-Boltzmann equation is solved by using a linearization parameter α, which is a measure of the relative importance of the fixed, ionized impurity space charge compared with the mobile carrier or electron and hole charges in the transition region of the p-n junction. It is found that both the transition layer width and the transition carrier capacitance associated with the electrons and holes in the transition region increase exponentially with applied voltage under forward bias condition. A calculation of the recombination-generation current at a forward bias beyond the built-in or diffusion voltage is now possible with the present theory. The dc theory of junction capacitance compares favorably with experimental measurements of a wide variety of nearly linear-graded diffused silicon junctions."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"The Board of Directors of The Institute of Radio Engineers, joining with his many friends and colleagues, expresses its sense of profound regret and deep loss at the passing of their distinguished companion, John V.L. Hogan. The text of a resolution adopted by the IRE Board of Directors at its meeting of January 4, 1961, is presented."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The joint IRE-AIEE Task Group 28.4.7, on Transistor Internal Parameters, was organized with the following objectives: 1) To formulate a small-signal equivalent-circuit representation of a transistor, the parameters of which emphasize separately the principal physical mechanisms of the device. 2) To recommend symbols for these parameters consistent with accepted usage and other standards. 3) To exhibit the relationship between the equivalent-circuit representation described in item 1 above and those simplified representations commonly employed in circuit analysis or design. 4) To propose and discuss methods of determining these parameters from electrical measurements at the terminals. This report summarizes the work of the group on the first three of these objectives."
"An analysis and derivation of the noise figure of a tunnel-diode microwave amplifier are presented. The agreement between the measured noise figure and the theoretical results is an indirect check on the existence of full shot noise in germanium tunnel diodes at microwave frequencies. The limiting noise temperature of the amplifier is eI0R/2k, and can be approached by using diodes with small (RC) products in which the extreme overcoupling (load mismatch) and high gain can be achieved simultaneously."
"Several experimental tunnel-diode RF oscillators which operate at frequencies from 610 to 8350 Mc are described. Power outputs an order of magnitude greater than those previously reported in the literature were obtained: 10 mw at 610 Mc, 2 mw at 1600 Mc, 0.7 mw at 2800 Mc, 0.2 mw at 5500 Mc, and 0.01 mw at 7130 Mc. Problems relating to oscillation frequency, power output, and wave shape are treated analytically."
"This paper shows that in transistor-like three-layer structures with the base either open-circuited or directly shorted to the emitter region, negative resistances are observed when any two of several effects listed occur simultaneously. At higher frequencies, an inductance is often associated with the negative resistance. A few typical devices are analyzed illustrating an approach to the design theory and showing that the component values achieved (-R and L) lie in the region of major circuit interest. Some of the structures offer hope of providing negative resistances and variable inductances in the microwave region; others appear promising as fast switching elements or as replacements for wound coils in microcircuitry."
"A low-noise X-band radiometer, using a ruby maser preamplifier in radio astronomy measurements, is discussed. The radiometer uses a reflection-cavity maser with voltage-gain bndwidth products as high as 300 Mc at 4.2°K. Less than 1 per cent short-term gain instability and dependable performance are obtained. A system noise factor (excluding antenna spillover) of 0.6 db 43°K) has been obtained. The system bandwidth is limited to 8 Mc by the intermediate frequency bandwidth, with maser bandwidths of 20-30 Mc available. RMS noise fluctuations of approximately 0.01°K with a 12-second integration time and 0.007°K with a 42-second integration time are obtained. Gain instability of 0.6 per cent up to 10 minutes and 2 per cent up to 30 minutes has been measured. Electrical and mechanical features as well as measurement and operational techniques are described. Performance data and radio astronomy observations are discussed."
"An analysis is given for the second-subharmonic parametric oscillator with two ferromagnetic cores. \"Square-loop\" reasoning is employed with extreme idealization of the magnetic core properties; the effects of hysteresis losses and saturated inductance are subsequently considered. The steady-state operation, both with voltage and with current pump drives, is studied to determine the values of the circuit parameters for which the subharmonic oscillations occur. The transient build-up is evaluated by means of difference equations, and the influence of the magnitude of the excitation signal upon the transient is illustrated. The experimental waveforms agree with the analytical predictions for a wide range of drive frequencies, the upper limit investigated being 3 Mc."
"Tropospheric scatter tests were performed in the Southern California region in conjunction with extensive meteorological measurements. The turbulent spectra were found to be, in the region of interest, proportional to k-5/3. In general, the scattered signals were found to agree with the turbulent single scattering model predicted by such a dielectric spectrum. Horizontal beamswinging experiments gave a dependence on the scattering angle of θ-14/3. A stronger θ dependence was observed for vertical beamswinging and is explained by a height dependence of the turbulent fluctuation spectra rather than anisotropy. This explanation is further supported by agreement with Booker and deBettencourt aperture-to-medium coupling loss. A λ-1/3 wavelength dependence was observed under standard atmospheric conditions. In the presence of weak turbulent layers a λ0.9 dependence in the lower frequency region was observed and is explained in terms of a frequency dependent layer reflection phenomena. The spectra of the envelope of the scattered signal are also given. They are generally Gaussian in shape with the width dependent upon the range, frequency and scattering angle. Other details of their fine structure are also discussed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A number of new techniques for detecting signals at centimeter and shorter wavelengths are making possible far better noise performance than ever before attainable. Over the past ten years, noise temperatures have been reduced from around 3,000°K to less than 5°K. The low-noise devices which are currently competitive or which show future promise include traveling-wave tubes, parametric amplifiers, tunnel diodes, masers, photon counters, and photosensitive detectors. This paper discusses the various techniques for attaining low noise and summarizes the achievements relative to each technique. Effective noise reduction in traveling-wave tubes is accomplished by making the beam flow through an extended low-velocity region. Noise temperatures as low as 250°K have been measured on traveling-wave tubes at S band. Low noise has been attained in parametric devices using both electron beams and semiconductor diodes. Some of the lowest noise temperatures measured on any unrefrigerated microwave amplifiers are those for electron-beam parametric amplifiers. Refrigerated semiconductor-diode parametric amplifiers have given even lower noise temperatures. The tunnel-diode amplifier is the most recent negative resistance microwave device. It seems to have limitations as far as extremely low-noise performance is concerned, but nevertheless it is a good competitor for many low-noise applications. So far, the maser is the best in microwave low-noise amplification. Intrinsic maser noise temperatures of a few degrees are readily attainable. Photon counters and photosensitive detectors are inherently even quieter and give promise of considerable future potential."
"Einstein's general theory of relativity is broken down and simplified under limitations usually satisfied in experimentally realizable situations. Following the work of Møller,1 an analogy between electromagnetism and gravitation is presented which allows calculation of various gravitational forces by considering the equivalent electromagnetic problem. A number of examples are included. Tensor formulation is not used except in the Appendix, where justification for the analogies is given."
"The purpose of this paper is to introduce a new type of circuit for matched amplification using negative resistance devices. This circuit consists of a quarter-wave transmission line section whose input and output are paralleled by negative conductances. The characteristics of such an amplifier are discussed, and an expression for its noise figure is derived. The development of a 30-Mc amplifier using two Esaki diodes is described. Experimental results are presented, including curves of the characteristics as a function of frequency. A gain of 8.9 db was measured with a noise figure of 4.3 db."
"The development of new solid-state active elements, such as variable-capacitor diodes and tunnel diodes, has stimulated the network theorist to consider the negative resistor as an additional basic circuit element to be included in problems of linear network analysis and synthesis. In this paper it is first shown that if the negative resistor is added to the usual set of lumped passive building blocks, then it is possible to represent as a network any linear relation between n-port voltages and currents prescribed in terms of real, rational functions of a complex-frequency variable. This leads to the synthesis of some novel pathologic circuits which have neither immittance nor scattering representations, such as a one-port, which is simultaneously an open circuit and a short circuit (v=i=0, the \"nullator\"), and the linear network in which voltages and currents at the ports are completely arbitrary (the \"norator,\" the unique, linear nonreciprocal, one-port). These elements are shown to be basic linear circuit building blocks. The second part of the paper considers the synthesis in the frequency domain of a real, rational n×n immitance matrix in which pole locations and pole multiplicities are completely arbitrary. It is shown that such a matrix can always be realized with lossless elements and at most n positive and n negative resistors."
"In addition to noise arising from the circuit, a semiconductor diodic junction must contain a basic noise source. This basic noise mechanism is due to fluctuations in the ionization state of the impurity atoms which occur at random relative to the probability of ionization, w=nD+/nD. In an n-type semiconductor, a neutral impurity that suddenly becomes ionized releases a mobile electron whose movement forms a noise current pulse; similarly for the elemental deionization event. The net result is a short-circuited noise current given approximately by the formula, 2 IIDA TV (1 -we) q(VB + Vc)]- TD+ w kT Using typical numbers, this formula indicates that the fundamental noise associated with a 0.3 μμfd depletion layer capacitance at 100 Mc is equivalent to the thermal noise of a 6-ohm series resistor at 40°K and a 0.1-ohm series resistor at 300°K. Experimental verification of this type of noise is not known. When it is observed experimentally, a new method for evaluating some of the basic properties of semiconductors will be available, and computations of minimum noise factor of parametric amplifiers will be possible."
"A new microwave technique for the measurement of conductivity of semiconductors has been explored and provides agreement with more conventional methods. The proposed technique depends upon the absorption of the microwave power being propagated through a semiconductor medium. This eliminates the need for electrode attachment, making the experimental aspects of the measurement more simple. In addition, since the microwave method depends more on bulk properties, it may be less subject to error due to surface leakage or crystal imperfections in the semiconductor."
"A resistor network developed for the solution of electron-optical problems is described. New, improved methods for simulating arbitrary boundary conditions with high accuracy are given. The sources of error are discussed. The error is defined by the dislocation of an equipotential, as determined with the network, from its correct position. It is measured in units of the distance between two nodes of the network, called an \"interval.\" For a homogeneous field, the maximum error is below one hundredth of an interval. In most practical problems, the maximum error is well below one tenth of an interval."
"In space systems the efficient utilization of energy can be critical. Many pulsed-operation devices, e.g., a plasma engine, involve charging a capacitor bank C periodically. The efficiency of energy transfer η to an initially uncharged bank when a dc-source voltage is applied through a resistance R, with inductance L assumed zero, is limited to 50 per cent even if R varies arbitrarily during the charging process. If L>0, η can be made to approach 100 per cent by charging in a periodic mode and terminating at the end of the first ½-cycle. The requisite L, which is a function of R, C and charging time T, can be formidable and its weight large, often being excessive for space applications. To provide guide lines in the selection of practical voltage shapes, the techniques of the Calculus of Variations are used to derive a series of general theorems for the \"perfect\" time-shaped source voltages that optimize η when the delivered energy, L, C and T are fixed. Four modes of prescribing R, as a function of time t and/or current i, are treated: 1) Constant R; the key condition is constant i for the full charging time allowed; the voltage is a modified \"elevated ramp\"; ηopt= 1/(1+2RC/T), can approach 100 per cent and is independent of L. 2) R(t). 3) R(i). 4) R(t, i). The ηopt for each case, showing the highest theoretically possible, are useful as a basis for an efficiency figure of merit."
"A simple gas-discharge microwave power coupler consists of a cavity supporting two resonant modes at the same frequency, a gas discharge symmetrically located in the cavity with respect to each mode, and a magnetic field arranged to be perpendicular mutually to the electric fields of both modes in the region of the discharge. Power is coupled between modes by the interaction of the electrons with the electric fields of the modes in the presence of a magnetic field. If power is coupled into one mode with a suitably oriented probe, power can be coupled out of the other mode to a load by another probe. The degree of coupling is a direct function of the magnetic field and the electron density in the discharge, which may be controlled by means of an external circuit governing the current in the discharge. A large gyromagnetic resonance effect is observed when B≅ωm/e and this resonance broadens for increasing electron density. When either the magnetic field is zero or the discharge is extinguished, no power is transferred. The mechanism has possible microwave applications for controlled or automatic power switching, amplitude modulation of power, power division, and sensing of either electron density or magnetic-field strength for control or measurement purposes. Devices having externally controlled discharges are limited to low power of the order of milliwatts. Higher-power devices may utilize self-excited discharges. Experimental results and a mathematical theory of the coupler operation are presented after a discussion of the mechanism."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a list of abstracts by number and their corresponding issues and pagination."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that af the second author."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1960."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Experimental results on a low-noise microwave amplifier operating at 4137 Mc are described. At a gain of 19 db the measured double-channel noise figure is 0.79 db, corresponding to an effective temperature of 58°K ± 10°K. The effective beam temperature is 25°K ± 10°K. The noise bandwidth between points 3 db down from the optimum is 32 Mc. The tube operates at 10 volts and 27 μa and requires about 150 mw of pump power. The dynamic range of the amplifier is about 100 db."
"Tapered transmission lines of distributed resistance and capacitance are useful in electronic oscillators because they permit a reduction in the required levels of impedance and gain. The analysis of such lines is also of value as a guide to estimating the performance of multisection lumped networks. An interesting feature of such lines is that the attenuation constant and characteristic impedance is different for forward and backward waves, and the voltage is shifted in phase and does not double in magnitude at the reflection from an open circuit. A set of normalized curves describing the behavior of such lines is presented as the principal result of this work."
"The sensitivities of square-law detectors and superheterodyne receivers presently available at the shorter millimeter wavelengths are reviewed and extrapolated to the submillimeter region. It is concluded that, for applications which permit wide reception bandwidths, significantly more sensitivity will result from use of a direct-detection system consisting of a chopper, square-law detector and narrow-band amplifier than will be attainable with superheterodynes in the foreseeable future. The expected sensitivity of a direct-detection system at wavelengths of the order of 1 mm is compared with that of the most sensitive centimeter radiometers."
"The USASRDL is conducting a feasibility study of World Wide Synchronization of Atomic Clocks (WOSAC) with an error of less than 5 μsec (l-μsec target). Original synchronization is established by flying an atomic clock from the master to the slave clocks. Synchronization is maintained by phase tracking a VLF signal controlled by the master clock. This paper gives the results of various phases of the project. Influences of the propagation medium allow VLF frequency transfer over the Atlantic with an accuracy of 2p: 1011 for a 24 hour averaging period. A synchronization experiment over 1000 miles gave an accuracy of 0.2 μsec. Further improvements by a factor of 5 of LF frequency transfer over 300 miles distances was accomplished by phase control of the radiated signal by an Atomichron."
"An expression for high-frequency tunnel-diode power is developed with a simple dissipative load and for signals confined within the nearly linear range of the diode negative resistance. The existence of maximum power output for a given frequency of operation, and for an optimum peak current-to-capacitance ratio is demonstrated. The power and the inductance appear in the equations as a product, and consequently, the higher-power output diodes require the lower inductances. The results are plotted for germanium as well as for gallium arsenide in the form of charts with the ratio of peak current-to-capacity and the operating frequency as coordinates. These charts present two families of curves which cross each other, one referring to constant products of power times inductance and the other referring to constant products of capacity times inductance. The presented data cover a wide operational range of tunnel diodes. For a diode oscillating at 10 kMc and having a resistive cutoff frequency of 30 kMc, the maximum power-inductance product is 0.0224 (mw)(mμh) for a voltage swing of 0.15 volt in the nearly linear range."
"In this paper we consider general amplifiers obtained by imbedding a linear active 1-port device in arbitrary 3-ports. The active device is assumed to have a representation of a negative conductance -GD in parallel with a parasitic capacitance CD. We prove that for the lossless reciprocal imbedding, the transducer voltage gain is limited by ∣ S21∣ < ½(1+eπGD/ω0CD), where ω0 is the angular bandwidth. For arbitrary passive imbedding, ∣S21∣ < eπGD/π0CD. Synthesis methods to approach or achieve the optimum are presented. Other types of amplifier configurations are next considered. In each case, the optimum gain-bandwidth formula, synthesis procedure and some useful design curves are given."
"A time-varying reactance in an electrical network absorbs power at some frequencies and returns part of this power at other frequencies, the balance being delivered to the source of the reactance changes. This analysis is a study of these power transfers and establishes steady-stage energy relations which apply under very general conditions to varying reactances, including linear, nonlinear, static and electromechanical systems. These relations include the Manley-Rowe results as special cases and provide a useful description of the external characteristics of varying (and fixed) reactances. An \"energy coefficient\" is derived which specifies the behaviour of an individual frequency transformation. The modes in which an individual transformation can operate are described and the results related to the characteristics of a wide range of varying reactance devices. An example of the application of the theory is given in the Appendix. This theoretical analysis was undertaken as a basis for digital computer studies of varying reactance systems, since it provides both an over-all description of general characteristics and a means of numerical analysis of particular devices. A fuller account of the work will be available in a later paper by the author [l]."
"About 2000 hours of noise data on various digital data telephone links are analyzed with respect to the applicability of coding theory to such links. The analysis indicates that coding for error correction is inefficient for such systems, but that coding for error detection, along with feedback, is remarkably simple and effective."
"Passive reflectors require large ground antennas and powers but permit use of unstabilized reflectors. Active systems, on the other hand, offer attractive performance through high directivity antennas but generally require stabilized vehicles. Further, the reliability of a satellite repeater amplifier is a critical factor. Automatic angle return arrays are investigated for both passive and active systems. These arrays, called Van Atta arrays, return a signal in the direction of incidence and are effective over at least ±45°. Thus only partial stabilization or single axis (spin) stabilization need be used, greatly simplifying the station-keeping orbit control problem. An active Van Atta (AVA) scheme has inherently high reliability since many of the distributed amplifiers can fail without serious performance degradation. The distributed structure also allows use of low-power solid-state amplifiers. This paper points up the salient advantages of the AVA system, and de'ineates the major areas where further work is indicated."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Historically, vacuum technology has played an important part in the development of electron tubes. The operating characteristics of many early devices were dependent on the degree of vacuum obtained. The Roentgen X-ray tube and the Braun cathode-ray tube are examples of these. Improvement in vacuum technology made possible the development of many truly high-vacuum devices in which performance is independent of the inclosed gas pressure. Many modem electronic components no longer operate in a vacuum but are dependent on vacuum technology in their fabrication. These include microminiature circuit elements, cryotrons, photoconductor-electroluminescent devices and ferromagnetic memory systems-all dependent on vacuum evaporated films. Electronic components have also played an important part in the development of modem vacuum technology. These include thermistor gauges, electronic ionization gauges, ion pumps and electronic leak-detection equipment. This paper is devoted to a review of modem ultra-high vacuum systems and the electronic components used in them."
"When optimizing thermoelectric device design for a given set of materials and technology, the system of equations used will be different for various device applications. Whenever efficiency or coefficient of performance is important in the application, an irreversible thermodynamic analysis of the design problem is useful. In this analysis, the effects of the thermal and electrical circuit on entropy production within the device are considered. The design problem is analyzed by comparing the relative contribution of various parts of the system to the total entropy production. This irreversible thermodynamic approach is illustrated with examples concerning several different design questions. Often qualitative conclusions can be drawn more readily than with other methods."
"The new device described here consists basically of a thin Nregion adjacent to a comparably thin P region. Two contacts are made to the N side and two to the P side so that currents can be passed through each thin region parallel to the single junction of the device. The two currents do not mix because reverse bias is maintained on the junction. A current in either side affects the resistance of the other side, and hence the current in the other side, through the medium of the depletion layer; this mutual interaction of currents gives the device its unique properties. The field-effect tetrode has applications as a gyrator and isolator. In a two-terminal connection it exhibits voltage-controlled negative resistance. Also, it can be applied as a truly linear, yet electronically variable, resistor. Equations are developed for its behavior in these applications and experimental results are discussed. In the models to date, the thin regions were shaped by rather tedious mechanical and chemical procedures. Epitaxial film techniques may be well adapted to its fabrication in the future."
"Experimental data are presented on the bistatic scattering cross sections of some small metal bodies, uncoated and coated with a resonant, lossy layer. All of the targets-spheres, cylinders, and -are of a size to be in the resonant region at wavelengths of approximately 3 cm. All of the bodies indicate a similar trend-the coated bodies are effectively camouflaged in the back hemisphere, but not in the forward hemisphere. In the forward direction, the scattering cross sections of the coated bodies are at least as large as, or larger than, those of the uncoated bodies. The bistatic angles beyond which this enhancement is effective become smaller as the electrical size of the body decreases, i. e., as frequency decreases."
"Given a time-invariant linear system, the problem of determining those input wave shapes which result in outputs that are zero after a finite time (pulse outputs) is studied. Conditions characterizing these input, pulse-output pairs associated with a linear system are given in terms of their Laplace transforms and the system function. These conditions are then applied in two cases: 1) the general lumped-parameter system, and 2) the general transmission line, to determine classes of suitable input waves for each of these systems. It is shown that the input itself may be taken to be a pulse for all the systems of case 1, and in case 2 for the distortionless infinite line and the general finite line. Furthermore, in case 1 and also for the general RC finite line, the lengths of the associated input and output pulses can be made arbitrarily small."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Ceramic dielectrics capable of field-enforced antiferroelectric-to-ferroelectric transitions from below -60°C to over 100°C have been made. The transition manifests itself by a D/E hysteresis figure with a linear central region and loops showing saturation on either end. Previously studied materials have exhibited this phenomenon only in a very limited temperature range. Conditions for obtaining the effect over a wide temperature range are: 1) a polymorphic inversion from ferroelectric to antiferroelectric with ascending temperature, and 2) a relatively high-peak dielectric constant at the antiferroelectric-paraelectric transition temperatures. Nonlinear capacitance, usefulness for capacitive energy storage, and novel transducer properties are described."
"The large-signal, high-frequency circuit applications of a tunnel diode as an oscillator and as a monostable and bistable switch have been analyzed quantitatively, without any of the customary simplifications, by solving on a computer the system of nonlinear differential equations which describe the diode and the external circuitry. Frequency, amplitude, distortion and switching times are calculated with high accuracy as functions of operating point and circuit inductance. The results are in very good agreement with actual measurements."
"Self-oscillation is observed in a transmission line with a tunnel diode on one end. The voltage waveform across and the current waveform through the tunnel diode are, in general, pulse form or stair-case form. This paper discusses the theoretical analysis of the circuit, and also presents the experimental results, which are in good agreement with the analysis. This circuit can be used as a pulse or staircase wave generator, pulse-frequency modulator with discontinuous levels, analog-digital converter, etc. It is simple in construction, requires little source power, and has a wide frequency range (e.g., μsec~mμsec)."
"A mathematical model of sufficient flexibility to describe most pulse Doppler radar search systems is constructed and used to predict detection ranges. It is applicable to situations where thermal noise and/or sidelobe clutter limits detection range. The sidelobe clutter is assumed to be statistically similar to thermal noise. The model allows the variation of most of the important radar parameters. The receiver is assumed to have a number of rectangular, nonoverlapping range gates followed by narrow-band, Gaussian shaped Doppler filters, and then a square-law envelope detector followed by a postdetection filter consisting of one or two stages having exponential weighting functions. Single scan and cumulative probabilities of detection are calculated for both steady and scintillating targets."
"S- and L-band low-level passive limiters preselectors using polished single crystals of narrow line-width yttrium-irongarnet have been developed. The S-band limiter employed unsubstituted YIG and has an insertion loss of 0.6 db, a limiting threshold of -26 dbm, and a dynamic range greater than 30 db. The L-band limiter used specially grown gallium-substituted YIG crystals, which, when ground into spheres and polished to a high finish, exhibited extremely narrow line widths. The L-band limiter had an insertion loss of 1.1 db, a limiting threshold of -21 dbm, and a dynamic range greater than 25 db. A tuning range from 1120 to 1305 Mc was obtained. Data on frequency sensitivity and SWR are given and indicate that such limiters have a high off-band rejection and a fair power-handling capability. A leading-edge spike of 0.1μ-sec duration was observed. The decline of the various components of the magnetic susceptibility tensor can be used to construct other novel types of limiters. The operation of three such devices-electronically-tunable preselectors, and cavity-type and comb-type limiters-will be described and experimental data given."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"In recognition of the professional interests of its thousands of members outside of North America, the increasing membership and Section activities abroad, and a demand for greater accessibility to IRE services anid publicationis the IRE Board of Directors, at its meetinig of January 4, 1961, authorized Presidenit Lloyd V. Berkner to appoint a committee to consider ways anid meanis for more effectively servinig these inemibers. The Board further outlined the scope of this committee Tlhe 1961 Ad Hoc Committee onl IRE Initerniational Activities Outside of Existing Regionis-to include: 1) The development, establishment and operation of Sections. 2) Affiliation with qualified societies. 3) Extension of Professional Group activities internationally. 4) Potential development of Regions. 5) Visual-Audio aids to Sections."
"A simple transistor oscillator circuit is analyzed in an illuminating way. The analysis predicts oscillation in either of two modes and provides a means of determining the maximum frequency of oscillation in each. The two modes are identified as \"three-terminal\" or \"two-terminal\" according to whether RF current is required in the base lead to produce the oscillations. The relationship between these modes is developed and visualized in a \"frequency portrait\" for the transistor which serves to unify the principal results of the paper."
"Haus and Adler defined a noise measure Me and proposed to use the optimum value Me,opt of the noise measure as a valid measure of the absolute quality of amplifier noise performance. However, neither Me nor Me,opt includes the contribution from the noise originating in, and reflected back to, the load. It is the aim of this paper to propose a different noise measure M, which includes the noise contribution from the load, and hence enables us to compare the performance of two different amplifiers which are not necessarily optimized. It is shown that the optimum value Mopt of M is equal to Me,opt, and most of the conclusions Haus and Adler obtained for Me,opt hold equally well for Mopt. But the meaning of M is quite different from that of Me. A detailed discussion about this difference is given in the final section, and it is shown that for practical amplifiers, M is a more appropriate measure of the quality of the noise performance."
"The delay-lock discriminator described in this paper is a statistically optimum device for the measurement of the delay between two correlated waveforms. This new device seems to have important potential in tracking targets and measuring distance, depth, or altitude. It operates by comparing the transmitted and reflected versions of a wide-bandwidth, random signal. The discriminator is superior to FM radars in that it can operate at lower power levels; it avoids the so-called \"fixed error,\" and it is free of much of the ambiguity inherent in such periodically modulated systems. It can also operate as a tracking interferometer. The discriminator is a nonlinear feedback system and can be thought of as employing a form of cross-correlation along with feedback. The basic theory of operation is presented, and a comparison is made with the phase-lock FM discriminator. Variations of performance with respect to signal spectrum choice, target velocity, and signal and interference power levels are discussed quantitatively. The nonlinear, \"lock-on\" transient and the threshold behavior of the discriminator are described. Performance relations are given for tracking both passive and actively transmitting targets. Results of some experimental measurements made on a laboratory version of the discriminator are presented."
"This paper describes a system which permits a substantial reduction in the amount of equipment required for the detection of narrow-band radar returns which may fall into any part of a wide, noisy Doppler band. The system utilizes a two-step process; the first providing a coarse, high false-alarm indication of range and Doppler, and the second providing high-quality detection and parameter estimation. The basic principles are discussed, followed by a description of an experimental prototype system. Experimental results are presented."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Compiled by the Radio Research Organization of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, London, England, and Published by Arrangement with that Department and Electronic Technology, London, England. The Index to the Abstracts and References published in the PROC. IRE from February, 1960 through January, 1961 is published by the PROC. IRE, May, 1961, Part II. It is also published by Electronic Technology and appears in the March, 1961, issue of that Journal. Included with the Index is a selected list of journals scanned for abstracting with publishers' addresses."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper is a survey of trends in the post-war development of continuous-wave and frequency-modulated radar with emphasis on systems designed to operate to short range. The larger part of the material is concerned with systems which use a single microwave generator as both a transmitting tube and as a source of local oscillator power. The discussion is organized around the various methods of analysis which may be used to study these systems. Hitherto unpublished work on a statistical method, developed at the Diamond Ordnance Fuze Laboratories, is summarized. Some information of a practical nature on microphonism, nonlinearities, feedthru, and saturation is included. A bibliography of work done in the post-war period is also included."
"This paper briefly describes some of the characteristics, capabilities, and limitations of the bistatic radar when used for the detection and location of targets such as aircraft or satellites. (A bistatic radar is one in which the receiver is physically separated from the transmitter so that the echo signal does not travel over the same path as the transmitted signal.) Among the topics discussed are the type of information available from the received signal, methods for extracting information from the bistatic radar signal, bistatic radar equation, target cross sections, and the properties of the bistatic radar fence. Throughout the paper the bistatic radar is continually compared to the conventional monostatic radar. It is concluded that although the bistatic radar has several interesting attributes, it is not as generally applicable as the more versatile monostatic radar because of the limited fence-type coverage and the difficulty of extracting target location information. An appendix is included which describes the multiple-frequency CW method for measuring distance as applied to either the bistatic or the monostatic radar."
"This paper is concerned primarily with various methods that can be used to mechanize a self-contained space navigation system, using a positional perturbation guidance equation to compute velocity corrections. The key components involved are those used to determine present position, a control system to implement velocity corrections, and a computer to interrelate their functional operations. In the area of determining present position, various schemes are described for obtaining a celestial fix. These include purely-optical and inertial-optical schemes, which are compared. In addition, a least-squares data smoothing criterion is shown whereby position is computed using redundant fix data. The implementation of velocity corrections is largely dependent upon the ability to accurately control vehicle attitude and to measure the magnitude of the velocity increment. Therefore, various schemes are proposed for controlling the direction and magnitude of a velocity correction."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Capabilities of a newly completed terminal-area air traffic control system are discussed, in terms of recent theories of flow control. Adaptability of the system to gain the benefits of early arrival scheduling, time separation, sequencing, schedule resolution, shortest common path, dual and crossing runways is described. The author defends close-control vectoring as the only means to achieving both improved safety and increased traffic rate and discusses the system's philosophy of increasing precision with decreasing range. Getting back to the pilot, means by which the system simplifies approach procedures, reduces congestion aloft, and provides continuous radar tracking are also discussed."
"The principles of logarithmic guidance are derived and their application to various space-flight guidance problems is discussed. Logarithmic guidance is shown to be ideal during the terminus of control where considerations of minimum fuel, minimum heating etc., can be subordinated to precise matching of vehicle kinematics to the desired trajectory. This precise trajectory control is achieved utilizing velocity and position measurements to govern the vehicle deceleration. Multidimensional effects are considered and it is shown that various \"degrees of control\" of velocity vector magnitude and angle, time of arrival, accelerations, geographical or inertial directions of approach, etc., can be achieved. The tolerance of logarithmic guidance to instrumentation errors and parameter variations are confirmed by error analyses of these guidance principles applied to the control of the velocity vector during the deceleration process."
"In this paper the variational calculus techniques of the Wiener-Kolmogoroff optimum filter theory are employed to develop the statistically optimum form of a generalized hybrid velocity-inertial system. A velocity-inertial system is considered which is general in both form and application. The form of the system encompasses pure inertial, pure Doppler, and a large family of Doppler- inertial hybrid systems including the present-day second-and thirdorder Doppler inertial navigation and stabilization systems. The system may be used for a wide range of applications including any linear combination of acceleration, velocity, or vertical-reference sensing. The general system form is developed by employing an unspecified filter to mix the inertially derived signal with the signal from the auxiliary velocity sensor. As a result of utilizing this general system form, a single general error equation is found which represents the system error for each of the above system forms and applications. Using a linear analysis and the minimum mean-square error criteria, an optimum system form is found for the complete range of possible system applications."
"Presents abstracts for the articles comprising this issue of the publication."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The standard error deviation for the Doppler navigator is theoretically derived for the general case of both random and systematic errors. It is demonstrated that both the along-course error deviation and across-course error deviation, when expressed on a per unit basis, consist of two terms. One term is independent of the distance traveled and the other is dependent upon the distance traveled. There is a possibility that results of statistical analysis of experimental data, as given in the literature, may be incomplete since the term in the error standard deviation, per unit distance traveled, which is independent of distance traveled is not included. It is demonstrated how this omission may come about by neglecting the mean errors in the subsets of the population of observations."
"A general method for identifying and evaluating magnetic sources associated with the magnetic airborne detector-equipped aircraft is described. It is derived for the compensation of magnetic noise related to the maneuvers of the aircraft. Mathematical formulas are included with a uniform engineering method, that is independent of the type of magnetic source encountered, for analyzing magnetic airborne detector records. A method for calibrating magnetic sources while in flight is also offered."
"A basic rendezvous homing control equation, which adjusts the magnitude and direction of the acceleration of an interceptor vehicle in response to sensed interceptor-target relationships, is derived, and the selection of system gain parameters to give a desired dynamic behavior is described. Modifications to the basic control equation for the following system variations are discussed: 1) Rendezvous at a preset relative position or velocity, 2) Landing on the moon (or other extraterrestrial body), 3) Operation with a propulsion unit having a limited range of thrust variation, 4) Operation with a fixed-thrust pulsed propulsion unit."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The operational requirements for telemetering altitude are listed, together with general aspects of the system which can affect implementation. The special problems which arise in the application of altitude information to the ICAO SSR system are discussed, and it is shown that it is essential to incorporate certain design features in the communications channel and in the coding system to minimize garbling. The experimental United Kingdom system of altitude telemetering is briefly described, together with proposals for expanding the encoding scale to cover any future requirement."
"The airline industry, continuing its support for the development and implementation of the ATC radar beacon system, now strongly endorses the use of automatic altitude reporting. In discussing the pitfalls which have delayed implementation of the basic ATC radar beacon system, this paper calls attention to the need for automatic altitude reporting in the ATC system, and the need to provide it quickly. In describing the need for automatic altitude information for both en route and terminal ATC, the choice of an altitude-interrogation mode, the 100-foot-altitude reporting increment, and the flexible code structure being proposed which is intended to cover all significant altitude strata to provide both coarse-grain and fine-grain information as required, are discussed. The paper also describes both early and recent actions by the airline industry in the field of secondary radar."
"Surveillance radar provides the air traffic controller with only a two-dimensional picture of traffic in a three-dimensional environment. Recently, the Federal Aviation Agency embarked upon the development of an automatic altitude-reporting capability utilizing radar beacon. Its addition to the system will enable presentation of both specific aircraft identification and altitude in alpha-numeric symbology directly on the controller's radarscope adjacent to related radar targets. Operational requirements for this new tool indicate a future capability of reporting altitude from the surface to 100,000 feet in 100-foot increments. The three-dimensional capability achieved will minimize the need for pilots to make verbal position reports, and will virtually eliminate reports with regard to altitude alone. Giving the controller this capability will reduce the need for arriving and departing aircraft to level out during descent and climb in order to maintain altitude separation from others on conflicting courses. While the aircraft is enroute, altitude change will be much less a problem to the controller, permitting the pilot much greater freedom in selection of optimum cruising altitudes. Automatically reported altitude data is essential to the sophisticated computerized environments being developed for reducing ATC bottlenecks."
"FAA's Aviation Research and Development Service (ARDS), has recently embarked on an active program of establishing an altitude reporting subsystem for the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System (ATCRBS), internationally known as Secondary Surveillance Radar (SSR). This action is in response to a long-standing requirement for the provision of altitude information to the Air Traffic Control System by a means other than flight plan and voice transmission of altitude information from the cockpit. The use of the ATCRBS for altitude reporting utilizes precisely the same techniques used for the identification function on Mode A. The major difference is that while codes are manually selected for identification, they would be automatically selected for altitude through an automatic encoding system from a source of barometric altitude. The essential characteristics of the experimental subsystem are detailed, and the Federal Aviation Agency's (FAA) progress to date is described."
"The development of an unambiguous unit-distance code configuration for automatic altitude reporting via the ATC Radar Beacon System is described. This code provides for compatible altitude reporting in increments of 100, 250, and 500 feet within one common system. The code is developed by using Karnaugh mapping techniques. Some assumptions and requirements are set forth to provide guidance for the determination of the most desirable code. A brief presentation of a developmental code in use in the United Kingdom is also given. It is concluded that the flexibility of the unit-distance code affords a satisfactory compromise which can satisfy the objectives of the various users."
"Equipment to process and display beacon-derived altitude information is being developed to enhance the operational capability of the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System (ATCRBS). Beacon identity and altitude information assists the air traffic controller to establish positive identification quickly and reliably; radar handoff procedures are completed more efficiently. The principle altitude functions of the beacon video processor under development are 1) To provide a digital display, in decimal form, of altitude data received from aircraft equipped with modified transponders which reply to a ground-to-air altitude interrogation. 2) To provide simultaneous altitude zone filtering of the altitude reply codes and tri-coordinate (3-D) radar data. 3) To provide altitude information to associated beacon video tracking units for aircraft tracking. The fully transistorized processor converts beacon video code trains from serial to parallel form. Leading edge decoding, pulse regeneration, pulse standardization, and destructive readout techniques are used to detect and eliminate spurious or garbled codes and to correctly process closely interleaved replies. Aircraft spaced as close as 344 feet in slant range are correctly read out. The equipment is designed for operation in either a computerizedor noncomputerized environment."
"A short resume is given of the means used to measure altitude for reporting purposes, possible sources of error, followed by a description of three of the most commonly used analog-digital converters."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper considers the physical processes which govern the operation of semiconductor particle detectors. It contains a discussion of: the production of hole-electron pairs by energetic particles in solids; the motion of the pairs under the influence of an electric field and in the presence of trapping and recombination; the current wave shape resulting from transport of these carriers; the production of high electric fields to facilitate transport in single conductivity and junction devices; and the influence of high densities of holes and electrons along particle tracks on the transport processes."
"A simple and reliable technique for the construction of surface barrier detectors in silicon and germanium will be described. Results will be presented on their characteristics, sensitive depth, working life, and damage by radiation. Various structures of detector have been investigated, and their applications to nuclear physics will be discussed."
"Silicon surface barrier diode detectors of 1 cm2 and 25 mm2 sensitive area have given pulse height spectral resolutions of 17 kev and 13-½ kev (FWHM) respectively, for 5.5 mev alpha particles. Reverse currents at 500 volts bias were less than 1 × 10-6 amps/cm2 with breakdown in excess of 1000 volts. A charge sensitive amplifier contributes 3-½ and 10 kev noise (FWHM) with an input capacitive loading of 20 and 180 pf respectively."
"The specific problems which arise from the use of p-n junctions for the detection of particles emitted in nuclear reactions are studied. The mechanism which allows the distinction between particles of different nature emitted in nuclear reactions like (d, p), (d,α), (d, d) is explained. Behind the barrier there is a \"diffusion zone\" which furnishes a slow component to the pulse. Pulse shape selection technics permit elimination of pulses due to long range particles. The diffusion zone is then used as an anticoincidence detector. Manufacturing of detectors in low resistivity material is necessary for the detection of short range particles. Inverse current rapidly increases with the ionic bombardment induced by the beam on the target. A simple electrostatic deflection system can protect the junction.2 The energy of the emitted particles rapidly varies with the angle of observation. This leads to the use of slit shaped detectors for maximum resolution. On the other hand several detectors can be connected in parallel to the input of the sme amplifier: well resolved peaks are obtained if the difference in angle between the detectors is sufficient. Typical spectra obtained in course of the study of the reactions O16 (d, d) O16, O16(d,α) N14, O18(d,α)N16, O18(p,α)N15 are presented. α ray groups 70 KeV apart have been separated."
"Encapsulated silicon junction alpha detectors made with material of resistivity 1000 ohm-cm and with front layer depth of 2 microns have been available for some time now in window areas of 5, 20, and 200 sq. mm. Recent measurements on the best of these units have given resolutions of 0.6%, 0.9% and 4% for 5.5 Mev alpha particles. For wider application, similar units have been made with front layer depth of 0.2 micron and using material of resistivity up to 30000 ohm-cm. Excitation of carriers by radiation of optical wavelengths shows that the effective dead layer is less than 0.03 micron. The necessity of making a solder contact and seal to the extremely thin front layer raises problems in the achievement of high stability, low leakage, and low noise at high voltages. Thus the depletion layer depths obtainable in encapsulated units with high resistivity material do not yet approach those obtainable in unencapsulated units in vacuum. A representative measurement obtained recently gave a resolution of 0.6% with a window area of 5 sq. mm. (junction area 20 sq. mm.) and depletion layer depth 180 microns."
"A transistor form of nuclear particle detector has been fabricated using 20,000 ohm-cm p-type silicon. With such high resistivity silicon and a wafer 10 mils thick, a bias voltage of 30 to 40 volts extends the depletion layer almost completely through the wafer, leaving a thin p-region so that the whole wafer becomes a transistor. A particle entering the device through the collector depletion layer produces ionization in this layer which is quickly swept out. The charge separation is such that the emitter is forward biased and a transistor pulse current flows subsequent to the collector diode current. The current time characteristics of the device will be shown and the gain of the device will be considered both for light radiation and particle pulse signals. From a detailed consideration of the gain-bias characteristics the lifetime in the base of the transistor can be calculated. This will be compared to the response time of the unit. The detector surface has been shown to have sensitivity variations by comparing the gain of the device obtained with a small light beam at several points on the surface. Variations in sensitivity are indicated by the shape of the resolution curves. Signal to noise ratios obtained are comparable to those realized with good amplifiers and similar area diodes. This, combined with noise and gain data, indicates that the device is amplifying the signal and the collector junction noise current by the same factor. Typical gain figures are 200 to 300."
"N.I.P. Silicon junctions have been studied as particle detectors. They consist of a 1.000 Ω.cm silicon plate on each side of which respectively a P and N layer have been diffused in order to have a NIP structure. The incident particles 9 to 40 MeV alpha, are parallel with the junctions planes, and strike the detector in the I region. An energy resolution of 2 % and a good linearity of pulse height vs particle energy up to 40 MeV have been obtained. In addition, gamma rays have been detected with NIP junctions, and pulse height distribution of Co60137 and Hg203 have been stutied. The average amount of energy expended by a photoelectric electron in creating one electron-hole pair in silicon has been measured and is found to be : E = 3,53±0,07 eV for 279 keV electrons E = 3,55±0,1 eV for 660 keV electrons."
"The properties of p-n junctions made by phosphorus diffusion in 12 000 Ω cm p-type silicon have been examined using the Chalk River π √2 ß -ray spectrometer as a source of monoenergetic electrons. With 200 V reverse bias the depletion layer is thick enough to absorb totally 350 keV electrons. Up to 1200 keV some of the electrons are scattered sufficiently to deposit all their energy in the junction. This results in a total absorption peak up to electron energies of 1.2 MeV. However, at this energy most of the electrons act like minimum ionizing particles and deposit 180 keV of energy in the junction."
"Silicon surface barrier counters have been used in conjunction with specially-designed low noise amplifiers to measure the energies of correlated fragment pairs from the spontaneous fission of Cf252. The silicon counters, ¼\" × ¼\" in size and prepared from 3600 ohm-cm material, exhibit rise times for fission pulses of a few nanoseconds; the pulse height resolution obtained for natural alpha particles is 0.5 percent. The energy response of the present counters to fission fragments appears to be slightly non-linear. Pulses from coincident fragment pairs are analyzed and recorded in a 100 × 100 channel coordinate recorder. Approximately 3 × 105 events have been recorded on punched paper tape and sorted on the ORACLE. Preliminary results including the deduced relative mass yields are shown, as well as pulse-height and energy spectra."
"The sensitivity for detection of low abundance groups in an alpha spectrum was found to be limited primarily by a low energy tail in the pulse height distribution. The effects of scattering and source preparation on the magnitude of this tail were experimentally investigated. A theoretical lower limit of sensitivity for low abundance groups was calculated from consideration of scattering processes in the crystal. Background contamination in new detectors and the increase in background due to the collection of recoil nuclei was studied. Methods for minimizing the increase in background are suggested. A chamber, designed from a consideration of the above results, was constructed and used for the detection and measurement of low abundance groups in the alpha spectra of U234 and the actinium decay series."
"Of interest in cosmic-ray studies is the proton energy spectrum. The recent development of the Au-Si semiconductor particle detector affords a convenient means for studying the proton spectrum for low energies. The small size, stability, energy resolution, and relative insensitivity to ß- and γ-radiation of these diodes suggest their usefulness as proton detectors on space vehicles. Gold-silicon detectors are presently being made at the Laboratories for Applied Sciences of The University of Chicago using the fabrication technique developed at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. An apparatus is described which employs two detectors forming a proton range telescope. This has been made possible by fabricating silicon wafers as thin as 0.004 inch. This apparatus provides information concerning the proton flux lying in the energy intervals from ≈ 0.5 to 5 mev and 5 to 10 mev, without the use of pulse-height analysis. This principle can be extended to additional energy intervals."
"All charged particles exhibit a minimum in their - dE/dX versus E behaviour. This minimum occurs at relativistic velocities, i.e. high energies, and corresponds to an energy loss of approximately 1.7 Mev gm-1 cm2 for all particles. The application of solid state detectors at high energies depends on obtaining good signals from these minimum ionizing events. Detectors for this application should be large in area, have reasonably thick depletion layers, and a low series resistance to insure fast rise time. Low noise is not a prime requirement however, since the Landau effect in any case limits the resolution to a low value. Using an analyzing magnet and counter telescope at the Brookhaven Cosmotron, diffused silicon junctions of up to 1.5 cm diameter have been investigated using minimum ionizing particles. The signal-to-noise ratio obtained is ~ 10:1 and the resolution ~ 30%."
"Studies of the behavior of semiconductor surface-barrier counters have been made in the temperature range 0.2°K -300° K. A simple model which appears to describe the observed behavior is presented. Mountings suitable for low temperature applications are described."
"A P-N Germanium junction has been irradiated with 4,8 MeV, 6 MeV, 8,7 MeV alpha particles and 5 MeV , 10 MeV and 11 MeV protons ; the incident particles penetrate into the crystal perpendicularly to the Junction plane. The depletion region is 0,7 micron wide and is located at a distance of 5,3 μ from the crystal surface. The variation of the charge collection efficiency vs incident particle range in the material gives an accurate mean of calculating the diffusion length of the minority carriers in the base material."
"A neutron-sensitive semiconductor counter has ben constructed by depositing a thin layer of Li6F between two silicon surface-barrier counters. Neutrons are detected by observing the α + T pair resulting from the Li6 (n, α)T reaction; pulses from the two counters are added and the sum pulse is amplified and recorded on a multi-channel analyzer. Since the sandwich geometry permits simultaneous detection of both reaction products, the magnitude of the sum pulse is proportional to the energy of the incoming neutron. A coincidence circuit was used to reduce background counts. Pulse-height spectra from slow neutrons and from monoenergetic fast neutrons, in the energy region 0.6 to 15 Mev, have been recorded from several counters of this type using sengitive areas of about 0.7 to 0.8 cm2, with a Li6F layer of order 150 μ gm/cm2 thick. In all cases a well defined neutron peak was observed in the pulse-height spectra. The full width at half maximum of the fast-neutron peak was about 300 kev approximately independent of neutron energy. [Counters of this type seem relatively insensitive to gamma-ray background but at the higher energies (8 Mev and up) background from (n, charged particle) reactions in materials other than the Li6 is quite high.]"
"Two silicon junction charged-particle detectors were irradiated with fast neutrons distributed in energy from 1/2 to 6 Mev. Reverse current and pulse height spectra of U-234 α particles were observed at several bias voltages as functions of neutron dosage. The reverse current of both detectors increased roughly five fold during exposure to 1.2 x 1013 fast neutrons per cm2. From the α pulse heights the capacitance (at some fixed bias) of one detector vas found to increase roughly 25% per 1012 nvt. Approximately 50% of this change was restored by 1000 hours of annealing at room temperature. In the other detector, the α pulse height decreased at a similar rate, but the data was obscured by the development of unusually large pulse rise times."
"A study was conducted to determine the effect of a high radiation environment on the response of gold-silicon surface-barrier detectors to plutonium-239 alpha particles. The controlling damage was due to fast neutrons although the detectors were exposed to a mixed gamma-neutron field. After an exposure of 1000 rads the low energy side of the response peak showed a definite but broad secondary peak. With increasing dose the original peak broadened but retained its pulse height and the secondary peak dropped in pulse height and became very broad. The total number of counts remained constant, being shared between the two peaks. After 5000 rads exposure the original single peak response was no longer evident. Thermal annealing at 180 C for several hours yielded only slight recovery."
"For practical considerations improved resolution together with higher operating limits can be realized for shallow-diffused junction detectors operated in the temperature range from approximately 0°C to - 70°C. Detectors used above 50°C will usually show large amounts of deterioration of resolution. Detector noise generally governs the resolution that may be achieved. It appears that noise may arise from both surface and bulk currents, but the degree of contribution by each has yet to be determined."
"A gold-doped silicon crystal was used to measure the most probable energy loss and energyloss distribution of π- mesons at 1.50 Bevç and 2.55 Bev/c. The crystal used was 2 cm in diameter and .25 cm thick. The preparation of the detector is discussed. The results confirm the existence of a density effect in the relations describing the dependence of the most probable energy loss on particle momentum. The energy-loss distribution appears to be broader than the predicted width."
"The definition of amplifier noise in terms of equivalent charge or equivalent electrons and the technique for its measurement in these terms is discussed in detail. Some of the theory which relates to the design of low noise, highly stable pulse amplifiers is reviewed. Tubes and other circuit elements suitable for use in low noise amplifiers are discussed. The effect of the pulse shaping networks on the s/n ratio (shot noise and grid-current noise components) is described and data are given for the relative merits of single and double RC and delay line clippers in association with 1 to 5 RC integrators. It is shown, for example, that the noise performance of the double delay line clipper is noticeably inferior to that of the single RC clipper, although it is very much better with regard to permissible counting rate."
"The signal on radiation pulse detectors is in the form of a charge on a capacitor. An ionizing particle produces a charge pair for each 3.6 ev dissipated in silicon. The capacitance of a p-n junction is proportional to the area and inversely proportional to the square root of the bias potential. Three similar preamplifier circuits are described. Negative charge feedback is employed so that the output amplitude is essentially independent of the value of the detector capacitance. The amplifiers have a high open loop gain, a fast response, and show little tendency to oscillate. Best overall performance, a noise line width of 5 kv, is achieved using WE417A or equivalent tubes in cascode at the input. RCA 7586 tubes give a line width of 8-10 kv with low capacitance detectors. The line width with transistors is 20-30 kv."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Background compensation can be accomplished by simple subtraction of a background signal in the linear count rate meter. However, in the logarithmic count rate meter circuit (Cooke-Yarborough type), compensation must be accomplished by subtraction from each section of the logarithmic circuit before summing the outputs of the sections. The method is described and mathematically justified in the following article."
"A mathematical model has been developed for estimating the performance of an Anti-Compton gama ray spectrometer. This spectrometer consists of a small cylindrical crystal surrounded by a larger, hollow cylindrical crystal, both composed of NaI(Tl). The results of a two-parameter study-incident gamma ray energy and relative crystal positions-are given."
"The design of a 30-inch radius combined velocity and direction focusing mass analyzer is described. Application of this instrument as a high purity isotopic separator for research in nuclear physics, metallurgy, and semiconductors is also discussed. Brief mention is made of the development of p-n junctions for the detection of singly-charged ions of low kinetic energy."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The use of digital circuits for control of a nuclear reactor in the start-up range was proposed in a paper given by S. N. Lehr and V. P. Mathes at the Nuclear Engineering and Science Conference in 1959. A control of this type eliminates the many periodic adjustments that are required with linear circuits and results in a more accurate, reliable, and maintenance free unit. This paper describes the design and development of such a unit which computes and displays digitally the reactor level and period over nine decades of power. The level of the reactor is obtained from a discriminator and binary counter which resolve 2.5 m. v. pulses spaced as little as one microsecond apart. A time modulation technique incorporating binary counters for comparison and read-out is used to compute the period with a short term memory employed to provide statistical smoothing."
"At energies of 10 Bev and higher, it is not easy to obtain physically separated beams of π and k mesons. We have constructed a hodoscope system which will register the identity of each of 20 particles entering a bubble chamber over a 100 microsecond time interval. Particles are localized by a scintillator hodoscope with matrix elements 1 cm square. Particle identity is determined with Cerenkov counters. The combined information is displayed on an oscilloscope and photographed at each bubble chamber expansion."
"Equations are presented that give the probable rate of spurious reactor scrams due to counter noise in the period circuits commonly used at low reactor power. It is shown how a filter introduced to reduce the spurious scram rate, will delay the circuit response in the case of true emergencies. A numerical example shows that a compromise can be reached that gives a very satisfactory circuit."
"An investigation of the transient behavior of a pressure tube reactor indicated a definite need for external control to handle even normal load perturbations. Three proportional controllers were developed which were effective in containing the transients of the system for changes in load. A comparison of the three controllers indicated little preference between them with regard to variations in reactor power, primary loop temperature or system pressure. The final selection of a controller was thus an economic consideration. The result of the parameter study of the pressurizer indicated that a pressurizer size of 30 cubic feet, 1/8 of the total volume of the primary coolant, was adequate for the containment of the pressure and volume surge transients."
"A compact transistorized linear amplifier has been designed that is suitable for many radiation counting applications. The amplifier delivers symmetrical double-delay-line differentiated output pulses, up to ± 10 volts in amplitude with a differential non-linearity of ± 1%. It tolerates input signals 400 times full scale without producing spurious output pulses. Both a prompt output and one delayed by two microseconds are available. The clipping lines and the signal delay line are all terminated at both ends so that physically small, relatively imperfect delay lines can be employed. Five amplifiers occupy only 12-¼ inches in a standard 19 inch relay rack."
"This paper described a digital data handler for storing information in a magnetic core memory during the pulse of a synchrotron and transferring it to a slow memory during the dead time. Digital measurements of trajectory, pulse height, time of flight, run number, etc., are typical data. The magnetic core memory provides capacity for storing 32 words (events) of 96 bits during a burst. The information contained in the core memory is then transferred to one inch magnetic tape during the dead time of the accelerator. Thence the information may be fed to a computer for future study. For economy, the data handler has one buffer which serves as the input, output and shift register."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Cerenkov light in the central region of a water-moderated reactor has been measured as a function of reactor power. Simple photovoltaic light detectors were used with a recording microammeter. The electrical current responded to a power increment increase with an initial rise proportional to the reactor power. This was followed by an additional increase in current of from 4 to 5% with a time constant of approximately 4 minutes."
"Circuits are shown and design criteria given for a current-regulated power supply which is typical of 19 supplies of four types built for the Oak Ridge Isochronous Cyclotron. These supplies range from 6.25 to 34 kw with current ratings from 250 to 1200 amp. Current regulation and ripple of 1 part in 104 are obtained by separate ac and dc feedback circuits driving a bank of parallel power transistors in series with the load. The dissipation of the transistor bank is limited by a third feedback circuit, which drives a saturable reactor in the power supply to maintain a constant voltage across the transistor bank. The output can be varied from zero to maximum by setting a reference potentiometer which is supplied by a Zener reference with a low temperature coefficient. Plug-in circuits in the feedback networks allow versatility; any regulator can be used with a wide variety of magnets of varying time constants. A modular transistor bank simplifies construction and maintenance."
"Due to a very unusual-effect that occurred when certain transistors were operated at low current levels, a direct coupled, transistorized, current amplifier has been developed with sensitivity extending below the millimicroampere region of input currents. This amplifier was necessary for the measurement of certain characteristics of the experimental controlled fusion machine, DCX (Direct Current Experiment). Characteristics of the high-gain transistors are presented along with a description of the design and resulting characteristics of a current amplifier with sensitivities of l/10-8, 1/10-9, and 1/10-10 volt/amp. A possible explanation of the high-gain effect involving the existence of an N-type inversion layer on the P-type base of the silicon transistors of interest suggests the need for more basic experiments on the effects of inversion layers on transistor action."
"The γ-ray fluxes in space which arise from nuclear and plasma interactions are expected to be of the order of 10-1 to 10-2 photons/cm2.sec. A considerable γ-ray backgrond is produced from the interactions of cosmic-ray nucleons. A detection ystem is described which will allow the measurment of considerably weaker primary fluxes than previous experiments. The apparatus is to be placed on a low-altitude, low-latitude earth satellite. A scintillation counter with a shielding collimator is used in the 50-150 key energy region. In the 0.3 to 3.0 Mev region, the high particle flux requires the use of an anticoincidence shield arond the scintillation counter. A Compton coincidence telescope provides directional collimation in this energy region. Data from the detectors are entered into a temporary binary storage and are read out, together with identification and satellite orientation information, to the payload telemetry system at a one bit/sec rate. The entire apparatus weighs 30 pounds, has a complemnt of 400 transistors, and operates on 650 my of power."
"The three-fold coincidence telescope is a compact, flexible instrument providing cosmic-ray measurements related to the charged-particle flux at a well-defined low-energy cutoff. The output to the space-crafts data-handling system may be in either analog or digital form. The experimental results to date have provided useful information of the space environment at distances from 200 miles to some 22 million miles from Earth."
"The object of the instrumentation is to observe the interaction of high energy protons with various nuclei and to study the characteristics of the short-lived particles which are produced. The tracks of charged particles can be directly observed in photographic film, in cloud and bubble chambers and in spark chambers. Alternatively, a number of radiation detectors may be arranged to give a signal orly when a selected type of event takes place."
"The paper describes electronic instruments and techniques which have been developed and used in support of the U.K. plasma physics research programme. These generally fall under the headings of machine design, machine control and instrumentation, and plasma diognostics. To date, most work has been in the latter category which involves a wide variety of measurements ranging from the low frequency end of the spectrum to high energy nuclear radiations. Many of the diognostic instruments described have been developed for use with ZETA, the large toroidal discharge experiment at the Atomic Energy Research Establishment, Harwell."
"Reactor safety systems have failed in such a way as to destroy the reactor which they were intended to protect. Safety rods, when released, can, through malfunction, increase rather than decrease reactivity. The electronic and sensing portions of the safety system are usually arranged so that random failures may on rare occasions result in a slight impairment of protection. The total loss of protection should not in itself lead to damage to the reactor. Systematic failures have occurred however, such that the safety and control systems have become coupled either deliberately or through oversight in such a way that the loss of protection and reactor runaway have been caused by a single event."
"Most of the properties of plasmas are difficult to determine. This is especially true for high temperature, dense, transient plasmas such as encountered in controlled fusion research. If high temperatures and long plasma confinement times are to be achieved the measuring instruments must not perturb the plasma. Since each transient event has its own personality and cannot be expected to be exactly like any preceding or subsequent event, all information (ideally) must be collected each time, without relying on reproducibility. Such plasma instrumentation has been given the name \"plasma diagnostics\". A survey and evaluation of several diagnostic techniques is given. Applications of some of the more important ones to specific experiments are shown and a comparison of measured quantities is made. A tabulation of several commonly used techniques is given in Tables I, II and III, together with a crude evaluation of them. Most of the methods are applicable to general plasma work but some are used only in controlled fusion experimentation."
"In the Multi-Stage Compression Experiment (Toy Top III) we wish to determine the energy and spatial distribution of the plasma components - ions and electrons - from the time of their initial injection into the machine through the heating and containment cycle. An ion analyzer, consisting of a magnetic momentum analyzer followed by an electrostatic analyzer, has been valuable in finding the energy distribution of the plasma ions. The density distri-of the plasma in the experiment's magnetic field has been largely determined with electrostatic extraction probes. Microwave radiometers and double probes have been utilized to find electron temperatures. Li6 (Eu) and plastic scintillation counters assess the total number and rate of production of neutrons from D-D reactions, which may be confirmed with nuclear emulsions. Electron temperatures in the Single-Stage High Compression Experiment (Table Top II) have been determined from an analysis of the escaping electron flux. The initial experiments on neutral atom injection into a mirror field geometry (ALICE) require a knowledge of the initial background gas density, neutral beam current, buildup of plasma density, loss rate from the confinement region, and the spatial distribution of the plasma. A magnetically shielded, nude Bayard-Alpert gauge determines the total initial gas pressure, the partial pressure of each atomic specie being found with a mass spectrograph. A copper target calorimeter indicates beam current; while neutral particle detectors on the chamber walls and screened Faraday collectors outside of the mirrors show the buildup and loss of plasma."
"The techniques which have been used to measure properties of the plasma produced by high energy injection into a magnetic mirror have been described. The results obtained have been illustrative of gas breakup; however, the same methods have been used unaltered to measure the energy dispersion and stability with a magnetically confined high density arc as the breakup mechanism. The application of these techniques has permitted a study of the plasma in DCX-1, a task complicated by the extremely hot nature of such matter and by the necessity for studying this state of matter in such a way as to extract information concerning its properties without altering these properties by the method of measurement."
"In the recovery of uranium from spent nuclear fuel elements, a waste stream from one solvent extraction cycle may be recycled as scrub solution to the prior cycle of the process. The waste solution may, as a result of this recycle, enter large columns where a critical accumulation of U-235 is prevented by concentration rather than size limitations. A continuous monitor was required to detect changes in uranium content of these recycled streams. Evaluation of the time lags and dilution effects in the sampling system showed that the sample monitored would increase by 2 grams uranium/liter before the situation could become dangerous. An in-line photometer was developed that could detect changes in uranium concentration of about 0.02 grams/liter in the 0-2 gram/liter range; it was set to alarm at a maximum uranium content of 1 gram/liter. The photometer is basically a simple instrument, depending primarily on the use of a photo-voltaic cell to compensate for the logarithmic characteristics of light absorption. The sample stream is analyzed in the wave length region of 425 millimicrons, where uranium absorbs light, and the instrument is standardized in the 525 millimicron region, where uranium does not absorb. A Brown amplifier is utilized to adjust the instrument output to the recorder for the reference cycle to zero, so that the recorded output for the measuring cycle is a linear function of uranium concentration. Fail-safe techniques incorporated account for the bulk of the instrument hardware."
"Techniques using gamma scintillation spectrometry and colorimetry for continuous analysis of radiochemical processing plant streams are discussed. The use of a continuous gamma monitor on an organic processing stream is described with emphasis on the practical difficulties encountered. A study substantiated by experiment on an improved gamma monitor is presented. The use of colorimetry to determine uranium concentration in processing streams is considered. Tests and results are reported for a relatively simple colorimeter and discussion is presented concerning more elaborate techniques."
"A very accurate alternating current limit detector is presented. Its design philosophy, specially suited for multi-channel applications is based on dynamic monitoring of both limits through the same channel. Completely solid-state, this limit detector exhibits an accuracy of ± 0.1 % over a temperature range from 0 to 45° C. The design is inherently failsafe; and reliability evaluations were performed for a 1000 channel application. Design philosophy, circuit diagrams and system operation are presented in detail and discussed."
"A fixed filter paper alpha air monitor has been developed which will sound an alarm within 15 minutes for a uranium dust in air concentration of 6 picocuries per cubic foot. The cause and effect of background variations are discussed. Typical natural background data accumulated over a six months period are included. A prototype instrument has been built and operated satisfactorily. The final model of the instrument which is in the design stage will be housed in a cabinet 13 inches high, 15 inches deep, and 21 1/2 inches wide. Pictorial and schematic diagrams are included."
"IV. Summary The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate for certain conditions that transmutation of elements can result in a temperature measurement error that is reasonably predictable. Methods are developed for estimating the errors for the purpose of: (1) Engineering judgment in selecting temperature measuring elements for application; (2) Obtaining the order of magnitude for expected error in nuclear applications; (3) Use as a guide in the evaluation of results from nuclear irradiation studies. Theoretical and experimental results show that the thermal emf of a Pt vs Pt-10% Rh is decreased (i.e., a temperature reading will be too low) when exposed to high neutron fluxes. The experimental results, together with theoretical considerations, indicate that the changes are due primarily to the transmutation of rhodium. Furthermore, the experimental results given here are in very close agreement with other irradiation data obtained independently by Oak Ridge National Laboratory. The results are believed to be sufficiently conclusive to permit an estimation of errors to be expected due to transmutations caused by nuclear reactions in this thermocouple. In order to evaluate the various resistance thermometers for use in nuclear reactors, from the transmutation point of view, the values arrived at for the numerical examples are listed below for room temperature."
"There are a number of interesting applications of digital control computers in the nuclear power field which demand highly reliable, high speed, automatic operation. These include (a) the monitoring of radioactivity levels, (b) conventional monitoring and data recording, (c) operation calculations on reactors, (d) economic calculations and plant optimization. In the case of gas-cooled reactors with a thousand or more cooling channels one problem is to detect and localize dangerous increases in radioactivity due to gas leakage in the face of background radiation which is subject to normal statistical variations of random types and variation in the mean level. This application of digital computers for monitoring radioactivity will be discussed and an existing installation will be described."
"This paper concludes that all solid state systems are not necessarily the best for reactor control instrumentation. However, market requirements dictate that the growing preference for solid state systems outweighs all other considerations."
"The principles of classical Langmuir probe theory are outlined to indicate the type of information theoretically obtainable by this technique. In the dense, hot plasmas and high magnetic fields encountered in modern plasma physics, difficulties arise both in instrumentation and in interpretation of the measurements. Because of these difficulties, perhaps the usefulness of probes lies primarily in the measurements of local fluctuating electric fields. The types of circuits required in probe work are described in general terms."
"At Chalk River emphasis has been placed on triplicated instrumentation for the reliable and safe control of nuclear reactors. Experience with the three-channel systems on the NRX and NRU reactors is given, along with some comments on the problems that have arisen. A semiconductor current amplifier, an alarm circuit and a logarithmic amplifier, are described and provide examples of instruments that meet the new design requirements. Application of solid-state digital techniques to reactor instrumentation becomes attractive when large numbers of signals have to be examined in detail. A semiconductor system is described that is capable of scanning several hundred low-level signals in less than 0.1 sec. The switching circuits used are shown. The application of these systems to plant monitoring and control is outlined."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"To some, the fact of engineering education in industry may represent a paradox. It has been introduced in order to make it practical for the engineer to find a satisfying division of effort between pursuing immediate job goals and longer-term knowledge objectives. When one considers the economic objectives of industry, the objectives and responsibilities of engineers, and the effects of scientific and technological progress, the continued broad education of engineers seems a necessity. The discussion is intended to be helpful to individual engineers in determining their own knowledge objectives in connection with \"engineering\" their own personal development."
"Engineering curricula are in a process of dynamic change as a result of the rapidly accelerating rate of advance technology. The rapid accumulation of knowledge leads to a selection process of the materials to be included in the curriculum. If the emphasis in engineering education is on the imparting of facts even facts about \"fundamentals\" the engineer will soon be wallowing in the wake of the advancing technology. Major emphasis in engineering education should be placed on developing in the student the open-minded attitudes and the critical approach to the solving of problems be they technical, economic, political, or social problems-that is implicit in the phrase \"method of science.\""
"A short analysis of the purposes and achievements of electrical engineering laboratories is given. As a result of this analysis, the conclusion is drawn that laboratories, as presently conceived, fail to accomplish their objectives. The new approach proposed is to limit the objectives as well as the laboratory time, which would result in an advanced electrical measurements course with an associated laboratory to demonstrate the lecture material."
"This paper describes the first course which engineering students at Arizona State University take in the field of measurements. This Senior course is part of the \"core,\" i.e., it is taken by all engineering seniors (except electrical engineers who may take it as an elective subject)."
"A laboratory device for operating transistors at selected, known temperatures in the 15-95-degrees C range is described. After a simple, one-time calibration no further temperature measurements are necessary. The unit is simple, rugged and easily constructed."
"Changes are being made in the content of presentday electrical engineering curriculums which require a fresh, modern outlook with regard to techniques pertaining to problem assignments and laboratory projects. Course content is being upgraded and broadened in the direction of a fundamental analytical approach. The recent revision of the electrical engineering curriculum at The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, includes liberal use of an ac network calculator in all electrical engineering options, which are outlined in this paper. The uniqueness of the ac network calculator at the University is that it is used exclusively for educational purposes, especially in the Department of Electrical Engineering. This paper discusses the \"when, where, and how\" of the utilization of this facility in the electrical engineering curriculum."
"In an effort to bring the advantages of television teaching to the maximum number of public schools, particularly those in hilly or sparsely settled parts of the country, a project has been launched to provide airborne transmission of six simultaneous school lesson program. Coverage area is increased approximately 20 to 1 by this means compared to the usual ground station coverage. Airborne transmission is the most economical and effective use of the available (UHF) frequency spectrum. Results already established regarding the use of television as a teaching medium are projected via an airplane flying at 23,000 feet altitude over an area covering parts of six Midwestern States. Educational advantages and problems inherent in ground station TV are intensified in this larger coverage area, and planning is governed accordingly. Technical problems include multiplex transmission of six lessons simultaneously, keeping the airplane on station, accommodation of transmitting equipment in the airplane, and determination of bandwidth for optimum picture quality."
"A course in antenna theory was taught to about 125 electrical engineering seniors through the use of closed-circuit television. The techniques of instruction followed were a composite of those used in other television instruction experiments, and the details are given in the paper. Nonedited student comments and an evaluation of the results are given. Closed-circuit television may well have some fruitful application for this level of instruction."
"The operation of the electrical circuit of a relatively simple teaching machine, and some ways in which this machine has been used are described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The present wide-scale activity to increase the science content of engineering curricula can, if not skillfully accomplished, result in the teaching of science, and not the engineering of science, to engineers. The changes experienced in the substance of the curricula are sometimes so great that faculties encounter great difficulty in providing worthwhile engineering examples to support their presentations of engineering science."
"A recent study of programmed learning, including experimental use in an electrical engineering department, indicated that the most fruitful application of teaching machine methods is in the presently nonprogrammed or loosely programmed hours spent by students outside classroom or laboratory periods. Programs already developed for use in this study have been concerned with analytical skills; further programs under development are concerned with concepts. Larger scale experiments are planned in which additional questions can be answered, particularly as to whether exposure to programmed instruction adversely affects the capacity of the student to learn independently."
"Educators who venture into the realm of television immediately encounter this question: What equipment is required, and what can be done with it? This paper attempts to provide some basis for an intelligent answer. In designing the research from which this report derived, attention was focused upon basic television production techniques. A series of instructional segments were produced utilizing these techniques; a second series was subsequently produced with the same instructors and subject matter, but with more elaborate techniques. The two series were then presented for viewing by various student audiences. A control group viewed the first series; an experimental group was shown the second series. Preliminary knowledge of subject matter was determined by a pre-test; degree of learning and retention were measured by an immediate posttest, and a delayed post-test. Those data were then analyzed by means of standard statistical instruments. In collating and appraising the obtained results it was apparent that a one camera production, with true flat lighting, utilizing close-up camera coverage and a modicum of technical skill and imagination, was as effective as the more elaborate production in ordinary lecture-teaching situations."
"A departure from traditional forms of undergraduate laboratory education has been incorporated into the electrical engineering curriculum at Syracuse University. In this paper is presented a summary of the reasons for this innovation, a description of the course, and an evaluation of our experiences with it. As curricula in electrical engineering become more science centered, it is essential that the undergraduate engineering laboratory take as its prime objective the development of skills requisite to the planning and execution of meaningful experiments and the promotion of an understanding of the relationships between theory and experiment. Briefly, the objective is an education in the experimental aspects of scientific method. This objective has not been well served in the past by the traditional laboratories. Too frequently, student motivation has been poor enough to limit substantially the learning process, and the typical experiment was not likely to afford an opportunity for education in science. To attempt to fulfill the objectives stated, a separate course in laboratory was initiated. The separation of the laboratory from its traditionally dependent role was expected to permit greater freedom in the technical content of the course and to emphasize the importance of the laboratory to science. The plan of the course was inspired by the belief that motivation, the prime force in the learning process, is determined in part by the significance of the experiments the student is asked to perform, and that an education in science can be obtained only by the exercise of its method."
"The ready availability of high-speed digital computers has wrought a fundamental and unprecented change in engineering education. Described herein are one university's experiences with a small digital computer, on which thousands of undergraduates have been taught to program within the past year. A new approach to the teaching and administration of computers is required, as is a new approach to almost every aspect of the engineering curriculum. The shape of things to come is briefly examined."
"Although cooperative engineering is practiced at several universities in the United States, that at the University of Waterloo is unique in Canada. The baccalaureate program requires five years of continual attendance, during which the student spends alternate three-month periods in school and in industry. A distinctive feature of the plan is the maintenance of a Coordination Department within the University organization. Staffed by senior professional engineers, this department acts as liaison between industry and the students. Two programs of study are offered in the undergraduate electrical engineering curriculum. One of these is designed for the heavy electromechanical and power systems engineer. The other embraces electronics, communication and computery disciplines, with a greater concentration of theoretical studies. Although the University is still in its infancy, both industrial and student acceptance of the cooperative plan has exceeded initial expectations. There is every indication that co-operative engineering education will rapidly assume a dominant role in the Canadian academic scene."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The traditional four-year engineering program gives neither an adequate professional training nor a liberal education. It is proposed that a four-year program of \"liberal engineering\" be instituted which synthesizes traditionally compartmentalized disciplines and concentrates on the intellectual components of the profession. Specialized professional training should be the proper function of the graduate school."
"The proper functioning of the world in which we live is becoming more and more dependent on information and how we use it. With methodologies and machines that are becoming available to information systems technology, we are, indeed, entering the Age of Information-an age of promise in business, in government, and in the military that can have as profound an effect on the world as the harnessing of the atom, the development of electric power, or the Industrial Revolution of the Nineteenth Century. The purpose of this paper is to delineate the broad technology of information systems in order to provide a basis for estimating the impact of this technology on future engineering education. Suggestions for modifying under-graduate engineering curriculums are made in order that future engineering graduates will be prepared to contribute to the continuing development of the technology and to utilize the technology in performing other engineering work. This paper discusses such topics as: What is an Information System?; Functions of a Generic Information System; Men in Information Systems; Machines in Information Systems; Methods in Information Systems; How Information Systems Are Created; Major Problems Facing Information Systems Technology; and The Challenge for Engineering Education."
"For many years the traditional engineering physics course was the pivotal subject in the engineering curriculum. It provided an adequate basis in macrophysics to support traditional engineering. The course is still offered, virtually unchanged for the past forty years except in minor details; the evolution of microphysics, structural chemistry, and physical metallurgy has made little impact upon this course. Engineering physics is now a sacred cow a dis-service course. This course has been cancelled at the University of Arizona and classical macrophysics is taught by the engineering departments in the various and usual subdivisions of mechanics, thermodynamics, electric and magnetic fields, and electric circuits. A new course, at the junior level, has been introduced by the Physics Department to cover Microphysics. It is offered under the title of \"Structure of Matter\" and covers electrons, atoms, chemical bonds, crystals, the energy band theory of crystals, and other topics from wave, statistical, and quantum mechanics. The course has been offered for three years. While it is under constant revision there is little doubt now that this represents a positive solution to a part of the problem posed to engineering educators by recent advances in contemporary science."
"The incessant search for unifying concepts in engineering education has, in recent times, stepped up its pace to match the tempo of our scientific and technological progress. Although a single unified curriculum for all engineering problems would indeed be a utopia, there is hope, nevertheless, that certain apparently diverse areas of engineering can be regrouped with emphasis on the basic disciplines underlying them. System theory, which is briefly exposed here, is one such fundamental discipline with its mainsprings in the mathematical model of linear-graph theory. The chief assertion of this paper is that system theory could very well serve as a basis for unifying the areas of 1) circuit theory, 2) circuit aspects of electronics, 3) rotating machinery, 4) elementary statics and dynamics, and 5) system analysis. The ideas presented here are sufficiently supported by the authors' classroom experiences. In the light of the curriculum proposed, certain of the inevitable implications for Canadian electrical engineering are discussed."
"The author presents a review of some mathematical aspects of magnetohydrodynamics and plasma-dynamics, and the fields of mathematics required and used in those domains are briefly discussed. The last section is devoted to the discussion of adjusting the mathematical program of a university, from the point of view of engineering, physics and mathematics, so that a greater number of students in those disciplines will be prepared for graduate courses in magnetohydrodynamics and plasma-dynamics."
"Many persons today question the meaningfulness of the traditional formulations of some of the basic questions which have been asked in the humanities, and also the validity of the introspective means by which answers have been sought. These challengers often appear to have behind them the great weight of the scientific progress of recent centuries. The basic issue on which the behavioral scientist and the scientific humanist appear to differ so from the poet, the artist, or the religious philosopher has to do with the physical and the spiritual aspects of reality. Predominately, the scientist tends to operate on the implicit assumption that only the physical or sense-perceived world has reality; the poet and the mystic live in both worlds. The behavioral scientist tends to see values as culturally generated and acquired, the poet, as inherent in the structure of things. Questions about the nature of reality are not to be decided by disputation among ourselves, but by conducting such experiments as will enable us to discern what that nature really is. The nature of such experiments and suggestions for the possible resolution of this basic issue form the subject matter of this paper."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Automation of instruction can satisfy current needs to increase educational quantity and quality in business, industry and education. Though the ideas are not new, automation gives the first practical opportunity for widespread application. Automated instructional systems include teaching machines, individual \"closed-loop\" tutoring situations and \"feedback\" from the student to the machine. These systems exploit the principles of knowledge of results, reward immediacy of reinforcement, participation and individual differences. As a result, teaching is speeded up and improved as students understand and retain better. Automation of instruction will continue to be exploited as it increases in complexity and man-machine relationships. Benefits will be widespread, improving especially teachers' efficiency and market value as well as the nation's means to challenge, effectively, Communism's world-wide competition."
"Instruction is defined as a process for controlling student behavior so as to insure student learning, rather than as a process for merely presenting information to students to learn in whatever way they can. Learning, in turn, is defined in terms of behavioral associationism. Thus, the problem of specifying an instructional program so as to lead to effective control of student learning as directly as possible is largely a problem of adequately describing the behaviors required of the student at specified points in the instructional program. The main body of the paper is concerned with the general application of these basic definitions to the problems of: 1) Identifying what it is that is to be learned, 2) Sequencing the order in which instructional materials are to be presented, 3) Designing instructional situations for accomplishing the desired learning. Evaluation is defined as consisting of two major aspects: 1) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the instruction for inculcating students with the behaviors selected for them to learn, 2) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the behaviors selected for the student to learn for producing adequate job performance."
"This paper rapidly reviews 30 research articles and attempts to use the data derived from these studies to evaluate the effectiveness of auto-instructional materials. The instructional areas covered are: elementary school, high school, special education, armed forces, and industrial use. There is no attempt to evaluate the research designs used in the studies, as this vital point was not within the aims of the paper. The primary goal is to point out that effectiveness of auto-instructional materials means more than that they \"teach better.\" Fifteen possible criteria of effectiveness are presented and the studies reporting data to each of these criteria are listed. The reader interested in doing research in this area is directed to a more detailed study of the particular research areas of interest. A 32 item bibliography is included."
"This article describes a method for preparing instructional programs, and is meant to be a guide for the person who is an experienced instructor but a novice programmer. It outlines the steps involved in one method of programming, and briefly describes how each step is accomplished. The article is specifically intended to help an instructor prepare his first program, and specifically excludes both theoretical discussions and descriptions of the detailed mechanics of frame preparation."
"PLATO-a teaching machine developed during the past nine months at the Coordinated Science Laboratory of the University of Illinois-is a device for teaching a number of students individually by means of a single, central, high-speed general-purpose digital computer. Each student is provided with his own keyset and television display. The keyset enables the student to control the sequence of materials presented to him by the machine, as well as to transmit to the computer answers to its questions. The computer communicates to each student by closed circuit television. It selects slides and writes or erases sentences and diagrams on a storage tube. These two outputs are superimposed and displayed on the student's television screen. Not only are textual materials presented to each student at a rate determined by that student, but the computer frequently poses questions. The student's answers-which may take the form of numerals, algebraic expressions, or words and phrases -are judged by the computer without revealing the correct answer to the question. Supplementary material is presented by the machine upon request for any question which the student finds difficult. The computer keeps detailed records of each student's progress through the material. Though a two-student version of PLATO is now in operation, the paper describes in detail an earlier one-student system. The system has been used to present a variety of subject matters, ranging from mathematics to topics in French grammar."
"Many techniques, audio and video, are available for projecting a lecturer's performance to a large audience, but techniques for feedback from audience to lecturer are almost totally lacking. The return communication link, if available, would be an important factor in the performances of lecturer and audience, hence in the educational process. An experiment using 30 students for a semester is described. Each student had a pair of push-buttons at his seat, and could answer either \"red\" or \"black.\" Answers were then \"frozen\" and totals displayed. After discussion the instructor inserted the correct answer. The circuit then \"graded\" each student's answer and recorded the score in a count-register, which accumulated each student's score throughout the semester. The electrical problems were easily ironed out; the psychological effects were more complicated and interesting. Frequent scoring at unexpected times produced too much tension and interfered with rapport. Scoring during a few minutes at one end of the period and use of the machine at other times for information only without registration of scores seemed to be satisfactory. Typical student reaction, \"Does this mean we have to know our lesson every day?\""
"The theory of learning indicates that students would learn more efficiently if they were reinforced as soon as they made the correct response to a new concept. A simple device (MARI) for giving students immediate reinforcement within a class period was designed, built, and tested in actual classrooms. Not only would MARI reinforce the student when he made the correct answer but it would also indicate to the instructor the percentage of the class responding correctly. The merit of this teaching aid was evaluated in terms of the usual hour tests, by comparing the achievement of students in classes using MARI with control groups not using MARI. The first year the results were statistically highly significant in favor of using it. Later results were not. Yet it is strongly believed that some such device could be designed which would enchance classroom learning and that other experiments should be conducted."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1981."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The cover photograph shows a demonstration model of a three-pigeon guidance system for use in the nose cone of a missile. The pigeons used for this purpose had been taught to peck persistently at a given visual target on a ground-glass screen. The chosen target might be a submarine at sea or a military site on the ground."
"Teaching machines are described and basic psychological principles behind them are discussed. The implications of programming teaching machines to the technical writer are outlined."
"An interpretation of the communications process is given in terms of stimulus and response. Part I deals with communications in the physical and behavioral sciences and with the nature of stimulus/sensation under various sensory conditions. Part II, to be published in the next issue of the Transactions, will deal further with the basic processes of communication and will cite an example of underwater communication between submarines."
"How long conference audiences will tolerate poor oral communication will probably depend on how much management is willing to participate. Today, technical competence alone is not enough in a conference presentation. This paper describes the inception of a PGEWS program that provides for a direct approach to this problem in which management plays a major role. It is a program that enlists the cooperation of various departments, provides suggestions for in-plant training sessions, offers pointers for initiating dry-runs of papers, and describes aids for the pre-evaluation of speakers and how to prepare potential authors for paper presentations."
"For efficient written communication, an engineer or scientist must avoid gobbledygook, argot, useless repetition and Chinese-box constructions. Another common but basic fault is lack of transitional devices."
"A new scheme is proposed for simplifying the preparation, submission, and distribution of quarterly and other periodic reports required under most technical and scientific government contracts. Each organization would submit a single report each quarter covering work under all contracts in a given field, with suitable acknowledgments of the support of each sponsor, standardized distribution, and time-saving elimination of contradictory reporting practices."
"A theoretical and experimental study was conducted to determine the factor affecting internal communications in fifty large organizations. The interrelationships between the various factors were also determined, and correlations between echelon and dissemination time and between echelon and reliability were established. Experimental results confirm the standard equations for data dissemination."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Underwater communication between submarines is a technical problem whicl has never been adequately solved, as is pointed out in the article by Beverly Dudley, \"Human Responses in Communications Progress,\" on page 35. Mr. Dudley has made some very interesting analytical observations on the nature of this purely human problem and on the role of the senses in communication. As an illustration of the difficulties of transmitting ideas effectively from one area to another, Mr. Dudley points out that sound waves seem the only practicable means of sending information between submarines in the briny deep. The salinity of ocean water makes radio transmission impossible over any appreciable distance, and light beams are very quickly attenuated in water. The possibilities and difficulties of using beams of acoustical energy are discussed in the article."
"An interpretation of the communications process is given in terms of stimulus and response. Part I, published in the January, 1961, issue of these Transactions, deals with communications in the physical and behavioral sciences and with the nature of stimulus/sensation under various sensory conditions. Part II deals further with the basic processes of communication and cites an example of underwater communication between submarines."
"This paper gives an up-to-date communication basis for the 1961 time frame."
"Instruction in the mechanics (grammar, spelling, punctuation, and the like) is no key to improved engineering writing. The critical factors in such improvement are correctness, completeness, and comprehensibility. These subjects can be taught through the use of simple student exercises specially designed to permit controlled emphasis on, and objective evaluation of, correctness, completeness, and comprehensibility; the same exercises make it possible to judge student competence in handling the less important mechanics. This approach has been tested and can be widely applied to improve the quality of our engineering writing."
"Quality control can be exercised over engineering writing in the same way that it is exercised over manufacturing and installation/maintenance programs. In the case of writing, however, the \"inspector\" is the technical editor or a supervisory engineer. His terms of reference are the engineering writing standards laid down in a standards handbook prepared by those responsible for the production of technical publications. The proposed \"quality-controlled\" engineering writing program has two major advantages: 1) It is simple to implement since it follows comparable established engineering and quality-control practices, to which engineers are accustomed. 2) It is imposed from within the department directly concerned with engineering writing, and is thus entirely independent of outside control."
"Three major ills of engineering writing are use of cliches, round-about expressions, and long, unfamiliar words. Articles containing such words and phrases are lengthy and tiresome to read, and often have their basic meaning obscured. Cliches, round-about expressions, and long words may be likened to solder splatter in a hand-wired chassis. Splatter gives the job an unprofessional appearance and may interfere with circuit operation. This article identifies many of the more common splatter-expressions that creep into engineering writing. It is based on a six-month study during which words and phrases deleted from articles published in Electronics magazine were accumulated and tabulated."
"This article suggests several important methods by which an engineer writer may enhance his proposal in the eyes of the reader and future customer. Consideration is also given to the attitude the writer must take in order to write the successful proposal. The writer must become aware of the elements of persuasion In writing."
"Duplication of research effort can be prevented when a literature search is made before starting laboratory work. The role of the librarian in assisting the engineer-researcher is discussed, and the services which can be expected of the librarian are stated. This article discusses certain library tools and techniques for the engineer-researcher."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The cover photograph shows a section of the well-preserved Qumran Isaiah Scroll \"A\" from Cave I. The two columns 32 and 33 comprise Isaiah 38:9 to 40:28. From the style of the Hebrew letters, the scroll seems to have been prepared by a scribe about 100 BC, probably in the \"publications department\" of the scriptorium at Khirbet Qumran near the Dead Sea. He appears to have made several errors which he corrected himself after he completed the manuscript, or possibly as he went along. Modern technical editors are familiar with the problems of numerous corrections and editing during manuscript processing. These problems are rooted in antiquity, as suggested by the insertions and corrections on the Dead Sea Scroll photograph. We are indebted to George Amber of Detroit, Michigan, for sending us the photograph and the explanatory material. The cover photograph is by Professor John C. Trever, courtesy \"The Biblical Archaeologist.\""
"When in despair over the problems of presenting technical information, today's engineer, scientist, and technical writer can gain fresh inspiration by reading the classics of engineering literature. Major writers, including ancient and medieval authors as well as outstanding moderns like Ammann and Raymond, can teach us a lot about variations in form and approach and about appropriate use of rhythm and metaphor. Further, our great technical writers make us reconsider our contemporary notion of \"objectivity\" and its values."
"Writing an engineering paper is shown to be an intrinsic part of the engineering work, rather than a mere recording of results. The process of writing a paper for publication in an engineering journal has some rather interesting aspects of creativity. This paper shows how any careful attempt to record and analyze the results of an engineering project will actually contribute to the engineer's understanding of his own work. Writing a paper not only affords a fresh insight to the author, but may even inspire a more thorough study and a new approach to laboratory work before the manuscript is finished. In addition, this paper exposes three popular fallacies about the creative aspects of writing."
"The abstract is not only the most important section of your report or paper, but also the most difficult to write. Effective abstracts 1) must contain enough specific information to satisfy the needs of a research worker looking for sources of information and of an administrator looking for a progress or status definition; 2) must be a complete, self-sufficient unit; 3) must be made as short as possible without violating accuracy or eliminating essential information; 4) must be written in fluent, easily understood language; 5) must be consistent in tone and emphasis with the parent report or paper; and 6) should make the widest possible use of numerals and standard, generally recognized abbreviations."
"An approach to the problem of obtaining a semantically structured vocabulary for use in information systems is presented. It is felt that this approach is valid for a system whose users are a relatively homogeneous group in a well-defined problem area. The semantic structure of the technical vocabulary of such a group is defined and is presented as a useful representation of a relatively stable relationship between the words appearing in queries about information in the system and the words in the information-carrying documents or records themselves. Procedures are given for the discovery of semantic structure and its use in an index to information and for a formal language for describing information."
"The question discussed here is whether or not scientific writing can be made more readable by using a \"readability formula.\" The methods of Flesch readability testing are described briefly. The applicability to technical writing is limited but the technique does seem useful for improving the language network connecting technical terms."
"Preparing concise, acceptable bibliographies is one of the unpleasant details of report writing facing the engineer, writer, and editor. Here, for use as a guide, is a comprehensive summary of the essentials of their preparation."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An active RC filter with an m-derived low-pass response is described. With a cutoff of 45 cps and a sharp attenuation peak at 60 cps, it is particularly suitable for eliminating power-frequency interference from EKG, EEG, or other biological potential amplifiers. It is small in size and requires only one 12AX7 or its transistor equivalent for the active elements. Typical design data and performance curves are given."
"Muscle transplants are performed to strengthen knee extension in polio patients. The time of contraction of muscles in relationship to gait is under investigation. Relative activity is evaluated by electromyographic recording of muscle action potentials. Voltages are recorded from three pairs of flexible wire electrodes implanted in the working muscles. The electromyograph incorporates three commercial preamplifiers, a three-channel electronic switch, a dc amplifier, and a long persistent cathode-ray tube with 3-second sweep. An image of the cathode-ray screen is projected optically via a half-silvered mirror into the lens of a 16-mm movie camera. The camera shoots through the mirror to photograph the walking patient on the same frame with the three muscle traces. Recording speed is 64 frames per second. Frame-by-frame analysis is accomplished by means of a hand-crank projector. This system of recording thus provides simultaneous visualization of muscle electrical activity and the mechanical aspects of gait."
"Considered as a special problem in signal analysis, the representation of electroencephalograms (EEG's) involves the problem of determining a unique number for each degree of freedom. A method of representation is usually chosen because of the convenience of making the empirical measurements. One particular method of representation is discussed with emphasis on the problem of making the desired measurements using electronic equipment. The statistical characteristics of EEG signals do not necessarily include all the significant information. This suggests that the goal of EEG signal analysis should be to represent as uniquely as possible the intervals of interest so that the significant information is not discarded in an averaging process."
"Air ionization is a normal phenomenon in the vicinity of electrical equipment. These atmospheric ions apparently have a significant effect upon man's performance. In general, the behavioral observations of past studies indicate that negative ions normalize subjects under some stress and positive ions have debilitating effects. The experimental studies done to date, however, have been deficient in instrumentation and control of interacting variables, and lacked a rational framework. This paper offers a first approximation of a rational framework for interpreting previous experiments and it is hoped it will generate a systematic series of experiments. The hypothesis offered is concerned with ion effects on adrenocortical secretion and a number of pertinent studies are considered from this standpoint."
"The rapid determination of CO2 in expired air is one of the more important measurements in respiratory physiology. Of the CO2 transducers currently employed, the condenser microphone and thermal conductivity types have several disadvantages. The former is sensitive to mechanical and acoustical vibrations. The latter is sensitive to other gases and lacks response time. In most cases the over-all reliability leaves something to be desired. The CO2 transducer developed to alleviate these difficulties employs a Fabry-Perot type interference filter and a lead selenide photoconductive infrared detector. The resulting device has rapid response time, is stable mechanically, and is simple electronically."
"A scintillation scanner has been developed for large-area mapping of high-energy gamma emitting radioisotope distributions in a patient undergoing metabolic studies. An unusual method of operation uses a solenoid-operated electric typewriter as a digital plotter. A three-figure entry of the count observed at each position of the stepwise scan pattern is typed with a decimal point locator to allow five-figure dynamic range. Three numeric type alphabets are incorporated to print each entry without carriage advance. The platen and carriage are synchro motor driven by the scanner. Scan index spacing down to 3/16 inch are possible over 24-inch maximum scan widths. The complete scan is a full-scale quantitative planar map in the form of a matrix through which isocount contours may be located by inspection. The electronic system necessary to accomplish this is described in detail."
"A model has been designed that considers water flow as well as electrolyte flow in the two-compartment system consisting of the extracellular and intracellular fluids. The electrolyte flows are assumed to depend only on the electrolyte concentrations, and the water flow is assumed to depend on the electrolyte concentrations as well as the relative and absolute quantities of water. The intake rates are arbitrary, and the coefficients can be varied to simulate diseased conditions. So far, however, there is not sufficient information available to be sure of the normal values. The model does not claim to explain any of the mechanics of the various flows, but only to give the same effects."
"A clinical laboratory for monitoring a variety of physiological variables has been developed and is described in the following paper. The facility was designed around a system of modular interchangeable functional units. From past experience, the flexibility provided by such a system is essential for efficient operation, because frequently it is necessary to change the physiological event being recorded on short notice during a routine diagnostic run. A detailed description of the various transducers, amplifiers and reproducers is presented."
"The Average Response Computer has proved a valuable tool for measuring statistics of neuroelectric activity, particularly of evoked responses. One of the most important aspects of the instrument is it ability to operate \"on line,\" thus enabling the experimenter to observe and modify on the basis of the calculated results while the experiment is in progress. Although the ARC was designed to operate in fixed modes, it has demonstrated a gratifying flexibility in the face of new experimental requirements. With respect to future developments, we feel that greater speed of operation and extension to multiple channels would further extend the range of applications and increase the versatility of the device."
"A considerable variation exists in the orientation of the hearts of different subjects. These variations make the interpretations of electrocardiograms substantially more difficult. They can be eliminated by a transformation of the \"coordinates\" of the three components of the heart's dipole moment to a new frame of reference which is rotated with respect to the original one. An electronic instrument for accomplishing this end is described in this article."
"An approach to a simple, dependable ECG preamplifier designed primarily for use in the operating room is presented. The 60-cps interference is analyzed and a method of reducing this intereference by utilizing the isolation offered by transformer coupling is described. A prototype unit is constructed and tested, and operational characteristics of this unit are presented."
"In the development of a quantitative understanding of physiological reflex arcs it becomes apparent that the concept of pulse-frequency modulation is bound to play an important part. Not only does the discrete nature of these signals introduce some effects of itself, but possibly more significant in the total picture are the dynamical factors introduced by the modulator and demodulator. There is good reason for feeling that in the iris reflex, for instance, a large share of the dynamic behavior is intimately related to the photoreceptors themselves, and possibly a minor role is taken by the synaptic delays."
"A system is described which monitors a point in space and displays discontinuities of radiodensity as the point is moved in a scanning fashion through a plane. A high degree of isolation of this point from other points in the plane is achieved by putting these changes in radiodensity of the moving point into an electrical form which allows them to be separated from all other discontinuities within the plane."
"The physician of tomorrow will almost certainly have to be a more sophisticated physicist than his predecessors of today or of yesterday. The physician is, perhaps unconsciously and perhaps reluctantly, a physicist to a very significant degree. Students anticipating a career in medicine need to be told and sold this idea since it affects their interest in physics courses during premedical training."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Interconvertibility of certain engineering units and time-motion studies leads to simplifications in simulating the chemist's performance. The system described utilizes a carrier stream into which samples and reagents are injected at controlled intervals. Reactions proceed in transit. Normalization results in replacing volume measurements by time, durations by distances and concentrations by rates of mass flow. Thus, all variables are controllable by means of timers. The system incorporates a plurality of special plug-in units (pumps, mixers, sampler). Each operating module includes a multicam timer programer. The modules may be arranged in series-parallel arrays. The system is pulse-operated from a random-access keyboard, so that a time-sharing programing method is possible. Setting of the measuring devices (colorimeter, pH-meter, etc.) for sensitivity, scale span and wave length is automatic. A unique amplifier is utilized. Data logging is conventional. Performance analysis by application of the Sampling Theorem is useful in optimizing the operations. Examples dealing with urine color, albumin, glucose and nonglucose reducers by the peroxidase method, blood RBC and hemoglobin are described."
"A recent development of interest in analytical instrumentation provides a system for the continuous automatic determination of a wide variety of biochemically important compounds by colorimetry. The system is controlled by a multichannel, peristaltic proportioning pump which accurately delivers fixed volume ratios of samples and reagents to other components. Purification or separation of the constituent to be analyzed is effected by continuous dialysis and, after appropriate chemical treatment, optical density is measured in a ratio-recording dual beam colorimeter fitted with a flow curette. The system can analyze different samples on a continuous basis or monitor changes in a continuous sample stream. Operations require a minimum of technical attendance. The system has application in many areas of medical research: routine determination of classical clinical constituents for diagnosis and treatment; study of chemical pharmacology in vivo and in vitro; biochemical aspects of proteins, amino acids, and enzymes; organ and tissue perusal studies in physiology; microbial metabolism and assay; screening of experimental pharmacodynamic agents. The design and operation of the instrument system will be treated in general terms and the application and results in the aforementioned fields of research will be discussed. Economies in time and financial expenditure will be summarily noted."
"A capacitance-resistance bridge for the measurement of the dielectric properties of human blood at 100 kc is described. The use of inductively coupled ratio arms in the bridge greatly reduces the effect of stray impedances to ground. This allows the glass measuring cell to be mounted in a transparent plastic thermostatting box, without metallic shielding. Thus, the physical condition of the blood can be observed throughout the period of coagulation. Observed changes in the capacitance and resistance of blood sample during coagulation are briefly outlined, particularly the effects observed when the blood samples are taken from donors who are known to have abnormal blood states."
"Various efforts to instrument coagulation determinations have proved either excessively costly or practically difficult. An instrument is described which is compact, reasonable in cost, and affords accurate, reproducible, nonsubjective determinations. Operation depends upon rotational sweep of precisely sized and located wires through the reaction mixture. Initial polymerization products are carried by one wire to a precision electrode arrangement which causes a sensitive electronic circuit to stop a timer. \"Zero time\" is automatically synchronized with the start of the reaction. A selector switch permits electrical adaptation of the electrode arrangement to determination of whole-blood clotting time. Extensive testing of a prototype instrument, confirmed by preliminary results obtained by various laboratories, indicates attainable accuracies of 0.3-second standard deviation."
"In radiographic diagnosis of heart disease, it is necessary to synchronize accurately the injection of radio-opaque dye into the circulation with the diastolic portion of the cardiac cycle. Because of the high-energy electrostatic and electromagnetic fields associated with radiographic apparatus, it was decided to make a photosensitive transducer to be clamped on the ear lobe to give an electric signal proportional to the blood flow through the ear. This signal is electronically shaped and amplified, and used to trigger a variable delay timing circuit which then operates the injector."
"The basic polarographic circuit and its accuracy is discussed. A bridge-type current amplifier, using one transistor, is presented as one solution to the problem of displaying the very small current flow in a polarographic circuit. A second solution, the insertion of a pH-millivoltmeter directly into the basic control circuit, is evaluated from the medical worker's viewpoint. Techniques and circuits employing four different types of pH-millivoltmeters are described. The direct application of a polarographic cell for continuous measurement of the oxygen partial pressure in the blood of a heartlung machine is presented."
"An air-damped artificial mastoid has been constructed to simulate the mechanical impedance of the human mastoid. The instrument is used to determine the force transmitted through the skull by bone vibrators used in clinical audiometers and bone-conduction-type hearing aids."
"A method of measuring cardiac output from dyedilution curves recorded by an ear oximeter is described. No sampling of blood is necessary to make the dye-dilution curves quantitative. The inaccuracies inherent in the \"end-tail\" method of calibration are thus avoided and the technical procedure greatly simplified. Theoretical considerations, circuitry and calibration procedures are discussed. Forty-one cardiac output estimations were made in 15 subjects. Coomassie blue was used as indicator. Comparison was made between the results obtained by the technique under study and by the end-tail venous method. Seven results had to be excluded from the comparison due to manifest inaccuracy of the reference method, which is inherently inaccurate. In spite of this, there was reasonably good agreement. The standard deviation of the differences between simultaneous values by both methods was 14.3 per cent. Fifty-two dye-dilution curves were recorded in seventeen white subjects at rest and during steady-state exercise at loads up to 600 kilogram-meters per minute. Comparison was made between the cardiac output estimates obtained by the technique described and by the \"arterial end-tail\" method. The standard deviation of the differences between the simultaneous values from the two methods was 14.2 per cent."
"A study was performed of the light transmission characteristics of the compressed \"bloodless\" ear in 70 subjects of white, Indian and Negro stock. It was found that in white children and adults of both sexes, the ratio of light transmission of the red filtered photocells to that transmitted to the infrared photocell was virtually constant when the ear was rendered bloodless by compression. The error introduced by assuming this ratio to be constant was no greater than the errors involved in making the measurement. If the assumption were made that this ratio was the same in Indian and Negro subjects as it is in white subjects, the estimation of the ratio would be in error in the average Indian subject by approximately -3.38 per cent and in the average Negro subject by -4.73 per cent."
"A system of standard electrode and patient positions for fetal electrocardiography as suggested by an international ad hoc committee, is presented. The variation in the accuracy of the fetal ECG technique during gestation is shown and discussed. Existence of two peaks of high accuracy, at 22 weeks and at term, is shown. Normal values for the duration of the fetal QRS are shown to increase from 0.026 second at 20 weeks to 0.040 second at tern. Normal values and ranges for fetal heart rates and the amplitudes of the fetal QRS are reported."
"During the past few years, it has been proposed that the electrical behavior of the heart be represented more precisely by the addition of multipolar current singularities to the equivalent cardiac dipole. In this report, we have explored the factors which determine the relationship of each such multipolar component to the various electrocardiographic lead connections. Specifically, we have been able to amplify and generalize the concept of the ideal electrocardiographic lead field by showing that the electrocardiographic contribution of a given multipole component is related solely to the lead-field component of identical degree and order. Thus, the McFee-Johnston proposal for resolving lead fields is reintroduced, and the heart-lead property of each component is particularized. Finally, some brief, speculative remarks are made concerning possible biomedical applications of the generalized lead-field concept."
"An amplitude-distribution analyzer which estimates the probability-density and probability-distribution functions of brain wave forms is described. The circuit uses high-gain dc operational amplifiers as its basic component and is simple in design. The theoretical probability-density and probability-distribution functions for a sine wave, a triangle wave and a random signal are discussed and compared with the experimental results of the analyzer."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Absorption spectra can be obtained on a wide range of biological samples with little or no sample preparation by using a high sensitivity, low-noise spectrophotometer with the sample in close juxtaposition with the photocathode. An instrument designed for such measurements is described, and possible applications are discussed. The spectrophotometer is a single-beam recording unit using a double-prism monochromator, 100-watt tungsten source, end-window multiplier-type phototube and an X-Y recorder. The phototube is operated at a constant anode current and a logarithmic voltmeter measures the dynode voltage, providing a photometer which is linear with density change over an opticaldensity range of 8. The noise level for samples of low density is equivalent to an optical-density change of 0.002 with a response time of 1 second for full scale pen travel. Any part or all of the wavelength region from 200 to 1200 mμ may be scanned with a wide choice of scanning speeds. Provision is included for electrical correction of system response to give a flat baseline characteristic for a selected region of the spectrum. This permits measurements at high sensitivity on samples with high scatter loss. Versatile sample mounting arrangements permit measurement of a wide range of materials. Liquids, powders, and homogenates are measured in sample cells of appropriate size. Tissue slices and solid samples are mounted on a metal plate with an aperture in the center for the transmitted light to reach the phototube."
"The vastly increased capabilities that computers offer the bio-medical research worker are primarily due to the utilization of high-speed digital computers. The techniques of automatic programming are attempts to lighten the load of the programmer and coder, by making the computer itself help prepare the program or code, minimizing the amount of writing a programmer need do. From a functional point of view, three types of automatic programs can be distinguished: the algebraic automatic program that can \"understand\" a code written almost directly in the usual algebraic symbols; the data-manipulation automatic program that greatly facilitates the handling of large masses of data; and the simulation automatic program, which greatly facilitates model building on the computer. The role of the automatic program is to translate \"pseudoinstructions,\" that nearly resemble ordinary language, into direct computer or \"machine language\" instructions. In this tutorial paper, the basic concepts of the \"machine language\" are described first, and then a sketch of some of the techniques for composing and utilizing automatic programming \"languages\" is given."
"For the transmission of physiological data not requiring complete freedom for the subject, a direct wire system offers many practical advantages including low cost and high reliability. Such a system is particularly well adapted for bedside monitoring and for the usual studies in the clinical laboratory where the patient is required by his illness to be in a fixed position. For general purpose physiological telemetery, it is necessary to transmit a bandwidth extending to zero cycles per second. Experience has demonstrated that such transmission is possible over a direct wire circuit for a distance of at least half a mile. An over-all response time of 100 μsec provides an adequate bandwidth for the most rapidly changing physiological events."
"A technique is described which studies cerebral circulation by monitoring with external collimated scintillation detectors the passage through each cerebral hemisphere of a bolus of radioisotope injected intravenously. The test is simple, harmless, almost painless, and repeatable at frequent intervals. Radiation of the patient is minimized by use of a rapidly excreted isotope. Theoretical considerations of the test are presented. The clinical applications carried out to date are described. The test appears to give a quick relative determination of the total blood flow to each cerebral hemisphere. The possibilities of obtaining an absolute determination are considered."
"This work has been concerned with the development of a presymptomatic diagnostic tool and with the determination of cardiac function by analysis and interpretation of the vibrations of the heart. The data processing associated with the study includes the use of time-frequency analysis and display equipment, power area measurement circuitry, and also automatic digital interval measurements. With this technique, a single channel of data can provide information concerning the heart rate, relative cardiac output, blood-pressure changes, breathing rate, and the effect of changed blood oxygen saturation. The value and application of this technique to bio-astronautical instrumentation can be great."
"Electroencephalographic records have been taken from deep regions of the brains of cats and monkeys with chronically implanted electrodes during centrifugal and shaking accelerations comparable to booster forces. Histological and X-ray controls have indicated that displacement of the electrodes does not occur, and that damage to brain tissue is comparable with nonaccelerated animals. A transistorized EEG amplifier suitable for recording in satellite biopack environments has been developed. In centrifuge tests, transverse accelerations up to 8 G were associated with rhythmic \"arousal\" patterns of slow waves in hippocampal regions of the temporal lobe during increasing or decreasing acceleration. Longitudinal accelerations between 5 and 6 G produced blackouts after 30 to 40 seconds, with flattening of EEG records, and frequently with induction of epileptic seizure activity in temporal-lobe leads. Shaking tests suggested that vibrational acceleration may be associated with the intermittent \"driving\" of the cerebral rhythms, in a fashion resembling photic driving, at shaking rates from 11 to 15 cps, and from 22 to 30 cps."
"By means of a transistor amplifier mounted before the slip rings of an animal centrifuge it was possible to obtain recordings of the EKG of rats under acceleration stress. With this information, a physiological end point for the tolerance of the rat to 20 G (positive acceleration) was defined as the time to reduce the heart rate of the animal from an initial state ranging from seven to nine beats per second to a final moribund state of 2 beats per second. The instrumentation and techniques employed permit the option of recovering the animal alive after approaching the limit of tolerance to acceleration."
"Two miniature radio transmitters have been developed for telemetering pressure values from internal body cavities. The large sonde has a volume of 4.1 cc and has a lifetime of up to three months when a mercury battery is used. It is employed for physiological studies on animals, and is attached to the wall of the gastrointestinal canal or other body cavities by sutures at operation. The small sonde has a volume of 1.0 cc and a lifetime of three weeks. It is used for gastrointestinal investigations on humans. The transducer in both sondes responds to a pressure variation of 300 cm H20 which gives a 30-Kc deviation of the 300 to 400 Kc carrier frequency."
"This pneumograph, by virtue of its small size and simplicity, has found application as a physiological monitor during anesthesia. The instrument measures chest and abdominal expansion and does not impede respiration or impose on the upper airway."
"An application of a linear programming technique to the economical construction of the neuron model introduced by McCulloch is described. Given a set of functional requirements for a neuron, a model satisfying these requirements is efficiently constructed."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Iowa State University program in bio-medical electronics is characterized by the following features: 1) It has been in operation on an organized and documnented basis siince 1957. 2) It is jointly operated by the Colleges of Engineering and Veterinary Medicine, through an administrative committee of interdisciplinary composition. 3) It is conducted within the scope of the graduate college, and first and second minors in bio-medical electroniics are conferred. 4) The program chairman is trainied and experieniced in the engineering and the bio-medical sciences. 5) The objectives include the design and use of biomedical instrumentation, the use of engineering, concepts in bio-medical research, and the use of bio-medical concepts in engineering research. 6) The facilities include a specially designed bio-medical electronics laboratory building--a $407,500 structure which was jointly sponsored by the State of Iowa and the National Inistitute of Health. 7) The associated research projects are closely liniked to the training prograimi and deal with a wide variety of topics. 8) Numerous graduate students have been trained in biomedical electronics, some have acquired advanced degrees, and twelve have completed the 1960-1961 sequence of special courses. A program of the scope discussed here presumes that the current national growth of bio-medical electronics activities will continue. This assumption is supported by independent findings published in recent reports of the United States Congress."
"A brief review of the development of the field of bio-medical electronics and its present status is presented. Topics include development, description of the field, industry education and future outlook."
"An automatic electronic visual-reaction-time meter has been developed which includes a random-pulse generator controlled by nuclear radiation for starting the subject's light pulse. With this instrument (using radioactive ion generators) several hundred subjects have been investigated in over 12,900 tests. An influence of light atmospheric ions on the human reaction time has been found for ion currents between 106 and 109 inhaled ions per second or ion densities of about 103 to 106 ions/cm3. Inhaling positive or negative ions may increase or decrease the reaction time of different people or even of the same person after several hours. In this respect the influence of ions resembles the effect of many drugs on the human system. The effect disappears when the subject is breathing through the nose instead of the mouth."
"Using the basic equations for heat balance which have been developed to take into account heat losses by radiation, convection and evaporation, an electrical analog has been constructed to simulate the physiological responses to heat and cold in the nude man. As has been previously shown, physiologic temperature regulation involves three of the basic types of control modes, namely, proportional control, rate control, and some of the characteristics of on-off control. The rate and proportionality constants have been determined experimentally on the assumption that the regulated temperature is the average body temperature. Time constants for the various thermal changes can be determined from the thermal constants of tissue and the response times of the physiological variables of sweating, vasomotor activity and change in metabolic rate. The simulator predicts steady-state situations of rectal temperature, skin temperature, metabolic rate, vasomotor state and evaporative heat loss under both resting conditions and exercise. Dynamic responses to sudden shifts in environmental temperature, air velocity, relative humidity and metabolic rate can be simulated to a considerable extent using equations based on the controls outlined above."
"Diverse techniques have been developed for controlling the cardiac rate by external means when normal physiological processes fail to maintain a stable rate. These techniques are presented in a brief summary. The factors underlying the choice of the radio-frequency transmission technique are presented and evaluated, taking into account control of the stimulus, avoidance of infection, and minimizing the number of electrical components within the body. A set of design specifications is then evolved based upon the physiological needs of the patient, utilizing the philosophy of the RF transmission approach. The design of two transistorized, battery-operated pacemakers is then presented in detail with a description of the constructed units and an evaluation of performance. These units have now been used successfully on five patients."
"A miniature, transistorized radio-frequency-coupled cardiac pacemaker was developed to eliminate wires penetrating the skin when electrodes are placed on the heart to drive it. The design also eliminates the need for totally implanting a pacemaker with its batteries. The stimulating impulse is transmitted via amplitude modulation to a tuned circuit and detector assembly implanted below the skin. The output of the detector is connected to electrodes directly on the heart, making external control of the heart rate possible. In operation, the pacemaker transmitter is placed on the surface of the body above the receiver implant. The size of the unit is 4×13/4 ×13/2 inches. It weighs three ounces."
"Third International Conference on Medical Electronics London (July 1960)."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1961."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The amplidyne exciter combines the basic characteristics of a conventional commutator-type exciter with the buckboost amplidyne features presently used for voltage regulators. The power required to control this exciter is small, permitting new types of voltage regulators to be used and additional, previously impossible exciter functions to be performed. Moreover, present functions are accomplished with greater ease, accuracy, and aggressiveness."
"Improvements in motor protection and design require knowledge of the thermal effects produced in a motor when it is operating under normal and abnormal conditions. This paper describes a series of tests that were made on a 350-hp (horsepower) 900-rpm induction motor. The tests included single-and 3-phase stall and running tests, and acceleration tests at different voltage levels and subsynchronous speeds. A comprehensive picture is obtained of steady-state and transient temperatures in the stator and the rotor. An analysis of the thermal effects in terms of possible damage to the motor is presented."
"The current comparator is a passive magnetic current-ratio device of exceptionally high inherent stability and proportionately high sensitivity. Methods are presented for calibration of such devices to an accuracy of 0.1 ppm (part per million). The design and construction of a multiratio comparator, which covers various ratios from 1 to 1 to 12 to 1, and which has errors of less than 1 ppm, is given. The use of the comparator, whose error is independent of current magnitude, for the absolute calibration of current transformers is described, and its extension to frequencies higher than the usual power frequencies discussed."
"1. We object to the statement that among the several maintenance tests that are available, overpotential tests at power frequency have generally been accepted as the most significant for large HV machines. 2. The author's theoretical analysis of voltage distribution within the slot parts for d-c 0.1 cps and power frequency is overly simplified and leads him to conclusions which are not supported by more critical analysis. 3. The analysis of the situation with respect to surface corona and voltage distribution is not valid for machine end windings, particularly where semiconducting stress relieving surface treatments or internal foil grading schemes are used. It further appears that from the standpoint of endwinding stresses, the 0.1-cps test would be less desirable than either the 60-cps or the d-c test. 4. Finally, even in the absence of theoretical objections, we would still have reservations concerning the proposed testing scheme because the circuit necessary to produce the 0.1-cps voltage seems too complicated. Those who have had extensive experience in the conduct of winding overpotential tests under field conditions will appreciate that sinmplicity and ruggedness of test equipment capable of withstanding shipping abuse and whose proper functioning may be easily verified, is a must if the possibility of serious errors in the application of test voltages are to be avoided. The apparent complexity of the circuit required to produce the 0.1 cps voltage appears to us to fall short in this very important requirement also. 5."
"1. The internal phase angle between rotors at the instant of initial field excitation was found equally as important as the magnitude and rate of application of excitation voltage in affecting the turning-gear synchronization process for this particular machine. As both elements have identical generators and turning speeds, and nearly equal inertias, the optimum initial phase angle was found near 0 degrees. For cross-compound machines having widely dissimilar elements and different nominal turning speeds, however, the same conclusions may not apply. The worst initial phase angle for synchronizing this machine was found to be near 180 degrees. Although initial phase angle is normally a purely random variable, monitoring devices such as those used in these tests may be warranted in some cases for remotely indicating phase difference angle for use during either manual or automatic start-up operation. 2. The optimum excitation voltage level for smoothest synchronization was found to be near 60-65 volts for each machine, or about 60% of rated opencircuit excitation. With excitation reduced to 38 volts (37% open-circuit) or increased to 80 volts (75% open-circuit) synchronization failure resulted. Best results were obtained by presetting the exciter voltage to the desired level followed by simultaneous closure of both field breakers. Sequential operation of field breakers gave less satisfactory results, and, in some cases, resulted in synchronization failure. 3. Data from the tests illustrated in Figs."
"A large water-wheel generator winding, about to be replaced, was subjected to all available tests. When the winding had cooled in air of summer humidity, nondestructive indications of d-c strength were readily obtained and were proved, by subsequent deliberate breakdowns, to be near enough to actual breakdown strength for practical judgment of condition. This had not been found possible with dry windings. After repeated and protracted exposure to direct voltages near breakdown, no damaging effects could be discerned by d-c leakage, 60-cycle power factor (pf), or physical dissection. Under high direct voltage, artificial breakdowns were applied; resulting surge voltages were measured and found to be harmless. Power-factor-voltage tests, slot-discharge tests, and corona tests were correlated with physical conditions found on dissecting coils. Phase-to-ground impulse measurements showed a relationship between oscillation frequency and fault location. Turn-to-turn impulse tests showed definite fault detection, but could be made on only one coil at a time. One incipient turn-toturn fault was located in situ by an ionization probe, but the method used was shown to need improved discrimination. Through the collaboration of various authorities in this series of tests, greater appreciation of the potentialities and limitations of the methods was obtained."
"This is the third of a series1,2 of papers concerned with the electrode erosion phenomena accompanying lowvoltage (LV) discharges in liquid dielectrics. Data given are the results of investigations into the significant phenomena in the electric-spark machining art.3,4 In the electric-spark machining process, a succession of high-current discharges are caused to pass between a work piece and a tool electrode having the cross section of a shape to be formed in the work piece. Electrode and work piece are immersed in a dielectric fluid, in which the discharge is initiated by a breakdown, or sparkover. The material removal accompanying the discharge corresponds at the work piece to \"useful\" work and at the tool electrode to tool \"wear.\" The electrode spacing is adjusted so that sparkover takes place at voltages of the order of 40 to 200 volts and this electrode spacing is maintained, as the machining progresses, at a relatively constant value, usually by automatic means. As a substitute for industrial diamond tools in the machining of hard materials and as a means of forming intricate shapes in a single operation with all types of conducting materials, electricspark machine tools have attracted wide interest. They are in wide use in the Soviet Union and ils western Europe. Several types of machines of United States, British, Swiss, and Japanese manufacture are commercially available in this country."
"The purpose of these tests was twofold: 1. To point out those portions of a d-c armature winding which are most severely stressed during surge comparison testing. 2. To present a rapid and simple method for the detection and identification of most types of winding faults which may be present in a d-c armature winding because of insulation damage or faulty construction. In order to accomplish the first purpose of this test, the surge voltage distribution was measured in: An unsymmetrical 2-layer 2-pole lapwound armature (see armature 1 of Table I). A balanced 2-layer 4-pole wave-wound armature as described in Table I as being armature no. 2. A balanced 2-layer 4-pole lap-wound armature having cross connections at the commutator (see armature no. 3 of Table I). In order to accomplish the second purpose of these tests, many armatures were surge tested and in some cases deliberate faults were introduced. This was done in order to identify and classify the types of faults generally encountered in 2-pole and 4-pole windings. The faults that were investigated include: bar-tobar short circuits (1), ground short circuits (2), short circuits between coil layers (3), and open-circuited windings (4)."
"In this paper the design of a higher-voltage high-current self-compensated homopolar generator of high efficiency will be discussed. It is expected that this design will not only produce an efficiency of 85 to 90%, but will be small enough to outclass in size the conventional installations of machines used to produce high voltages, which is the connection of several low-voltage generators in series."
"A comparison between experimental and theoretical values for exponents a, b, and c is made in Table IV. The experimental and theoretical values for exponents a and b are essentially the same. The experimental value for exponent c agrees favorably with the theoretical value for large air gaps but is low for small air gaps. This result is probably due to the many simplifying assumptions that were made in the derivation of PR, including the correction for fringing. Also, the airgap flux pulsation, B, is more nearly asine wave for large air gaps than for small air gaps. The theoretical values for the exponents were determined as indicated previously by assuming that the eddy-current and hysteresis loss components of the highfrequency loss each contributed equally to the total high-frequency loss. The results which were described in the previous section for rotor 8 justify this assumption. On the basis of this study, a practical design formula for small 3-phase induction motors is Phf = KBm2.1ft1.5(PR/g)τ㎻'D2W (46) The coefficient, K, is 1.36×10-7 for rotor laminations made from low-carbon steel and for the particular manufacturing processes that were employed to build the rotors associated with this study. Equation 46 will also give sufficiently accurate design <"
"Upon application of an impulse voltage, of such value as not to cause sparkover, a nonuniform field gap, of the proportions frequently encountered in engineering work, the field at first corresponds to that which would be expected from the conventional electrostatic solution. The fields in the vicinity of the electrodes may exceed the critical field momentarily but when this field is exceeded and a free electron appears in the region of the overstressed field, an electron avalance is triggered that develops into aspace charge. For rod-rod gaps the space charge develops from both electrodes but for rodplate gaps from the rod only. The flow of the charge into the intervening gap is at a rate of about 0.001 c which corresponds approximately to the electron drift; so that for a 10-cm gap the charge has diffused through the entire gap in about 0.3 μsec and for a 200-inch gap in 9 μsec. The current feeding the space charge rises very rapidly and decreases somewhat along an exponential curve so that a substantial portion of the space charge is established in slightly less time than these values. A certain critical average gradient exists for gaps which will produce ultimate sparkover of the gap with prolonged application of the voltage. There is some evidence to indicate that when the space charge is fully developed across the gap the electric gradient in the gap between the electrodes is approximately uniform."
"The origin of the insulation life characteristics curve theory is briefly discussed and the corresponding equations given. Nomograms are shown for evaluating the constants of these equations. The concept of relative aging is explained with illustrative curves, as well as the general equation and method of curve construction with a simplified example."
"This paper describes several computer programs for the solution of 3-phase and line-to-ground short circuits, which include the effects of mutual impedances in a zero-sequence network Although these programs were developed specifically for d-c studies, the method employed is suitable for a-c representation. The paper also discusses the experience of the authors in applying these programs to system studies."
"A description is presented of an experimental nuclear reactor to be used for the irradiation of fuel elements for power reactors producing superheated steam. The reactor is designed to have extensive flexibility, permitting the irradiation of a variety of experimental fuel concepts. The details of the reactor structure, the basic fuel element, and the control elementsare described."
"A theoretical study is made of a microwave parabolic antenna and plane passive reflector combination. The problem is programmed for an IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) 704 digital computer, and sufficient values are obtained to plot curves showing the relationship between reflector loss (or gain) and wavelength, size of antenna and reflector, and distance between the two."
"The comments by J. L. Pierce, the Vice President and Controller, A. B. Dick Company, are certainly representative of the activities of the \"controller\" function as it applies to GE's Research Laboratory. These comments are as follows: Properly speaking, a controller neither plans nor exercises control authority, except, of course, in the confines of his own department, where he is functioning as an administrator rather than as a controller. He does not plan for the company nor for any of its operating parts; his job is to see that the responsible executives do their own planning, and that they do it properly... Yet, in a very special sense, we may say that the controller controls. By that expression, we mean that he provides the planning and control machinery and co-ordinates the efforts of the organization in using it. His work is a pure example of staff-type activity. It is for others to do the planning, make the decisions, determine policy, issue and execute operating instructions, and, in the long run, exercise control. But if any of these essentials are omitted or badly handled, the omnipresent controller is obligated to report the facts-diligently, decisively, diplomatically-to all levels of management concerned. For the specific areas which are under consideration, the specific activities of the Manager-Finance at the GE Research Laboratory can be summarized as follows. Planning 1. Prepare annually a plan for the formulation of a 5-year forecast of research programs. 2."
"This paper describes the design of a high-precision, stable, low-cost magnetic bearing for watt-hour (w-hr) meters using small barium ferrite permanent magnets."
"The basic relations combined with the effect of salvage and multiple depreciation can then be expressed as Return Basic (pseudo value)=(i) Depreciation Basic (pseudo value)= (1/sn) Salvage=-(1-k) Income tax Basic= (t/1-t)(1-bB/i)(i+1/sn-d)) Salvage=+(1)X (1-k). The quantities below the basic value in each case are the additive corrections. The use of the correct rather than 1/n in the computation of income tax requirements is not a trivial distinction. The revenue requirements for income tax may differ by several percentage points for different methods of depreciation. The calculation of the value of 1/sn for several methods is covered in Part II. An alternate treatment of invested capital recovered through depreciation is to say that it somehow remains associated with the original plant; but it is reinvested in other plants, and part of the return from other plants is credited to the original plant. This is the treatment used in most previous papers, and is the source of much confusion. Mathematically this approach is precisely equivalent to that used by the author and, correctly applied, will produce the same results. Correctly accounting for all the money is more difficult and fruitless discussions arise about the proper return rate to use on other plants, and the total cost of money."
"A method of analysis of complex traveling-wave problems has been developed and reduced to a practical program. The program, presently limited to single-phase equivalent systems, can accommodate complex terminations, loop systems, general input waveshapes, and multiple arrester operation. The method is capable of extension to nonlinear resistive elements and to 3-phase systems. Immediate areas of application include arrester separation problems, simple switching surge probelms, and solutions for system recovery voltages. Areas of possible future applications include problems involving distributed-constant lines with nonuniform (tapered) surge impedance and certain steady-state problems (e.g., rectifier networks) which are difficult to solve analytically."
"In summary, the author's company has developed a nondestructive method of inspecting potheads and cable splices. While a serious radiation hazard is present, this can be entirely controlled by a few simple precautions, eliminating the requirements for an industrial radiographer. This allows a technician to be trained in a few hours to do the work. Our experience has convinced us of the value of this inspection technique in detecting incipient defects which can be corrected before they cause costly failures. It has been a real pleasure to pass along this new technique developed within Du Pont Company."
"A simple statistical model is proposed for the random currents and voltages induced in a high-tension line by corona discharges. The spectral densities of the voltage and current in the line are calculated from the model, with reflections from the ends of the line taken into account. The results can be used to estimate the radio influence of a long power line on the basis of measurements made near a short test line."
"The interruption of d-c coil circuits can cause voltage surges destructive to rectifiers. The origin of these surges is discussed, and the use of shunt-connected devices for surge control is described. Calculation methods are given for determining the necessary component values for any required degree of surge reduction, and the time to reach drop-out current with those components. Calculated results obtained by these methods are compared with those shown in the oscillograms."
"An equation is developed to determine the limit of approach to live parts of transmission lines, based on the highest switching surges and including safety factors. The effect of temporary protective gaps is shown. The mechanism of shocks experienced by linemen during loose contact with a tower is discussed and it is concluded that such shocks are harmless but annoying and can be eliminated by introducing conducting shoes for live-line work, especially on extra-high-voltage lines."
"An expression for the equivalent impedance of a solid rotor induction mnotor is derived, which includes the effects of saturation and finite length. Saturation effect is allowed for by the assumption of a rectangular magnetization curve while the finite effect is given in the form of an end effect factor, obtained from the solution of a three-dimensional field problem. Tests made on experimental motors with and without heavy copper end rings showed good correlation with calculated results."
"Mathematical investigation of flux density on armature surface is described. The actual profile of the space between stator and rotor has been simplified by assuming a rectangular commutating pole (compole), a straight armature surface, and a straight main-pole side. The magnetomotive force (mmf) of the compole coil is assumed as caused by a thin current layer with constant linear current density, extended between two arbitrary points on the compole sides. The distribution of the armature mmf is assumed to be arbitrary over the commutating zone and uniform outside it."
"Thermal endurance tests to AIEE No. 571 were performed in six laboratories employing varnished specimens prepared in one laboratory with enameled wire from a single source. The results have been analyzed to test the hypothesis of the departure from linearity of the relationship between the logarithm of life and the inverse of the absolute temperature, with the object of subsequent limited extrapolation. Consideration is given to the variation between the results of different laboratories, and to reducing testing time. Comparison is made with previous AIEE results. Detailed numerical results are given."
"Simplified breaker application to industrial systems is proposed. Multiplier curves and tables provide the answer. These curves were developed (1) by superimposing calculated induction motor fault currents on synchronous-machine-source fault currents, and (2) by adding \"k\" factor curves which are an indication of the momentary limits of the breaker. Built-in asymmetrical capability allows breakers to be applied to industrial systems independently of breaker rated interrupting time. One symmetrical-current (E/X) calculation is adequate for breaker application."
"The scheduling of generation by valve points is described. Several methods of determining the basic incremental heat rates are compared and the effect on a loading schedule is shown."
"The design of d-c control systems for generating stations built on the unit principle is discussed from the standpoint of segregation, reliability, and continuity. By localization of the d-c control circuit and the use of an interposing 48-volt direct-wire supervisory system, exposure to failure is minimized and provision for local control is retained. This local control permits emergency operation in case there is loss of control panels, circuits, or other central control room equipment."
"The ring-type transformer, considered impractical for power transformation because of difficulty in construction and insulation, can now be built easily. Performance characteristics of this transformer are inherently better than those of the equivalent conventional unit. A formula is derived to calculate the leakage reactance of a ring-type transformer. Calculation can best be carried out by a smallscale digital computer, such as a Royal McBee LGP-30."
"The National Electric Safety Code (NESC) wind-loading requirements contain certain inconsistencies for the heavy- and medium-loading districts. These inconsistencies, for utilities using NESC loads as design loads, can result in underdesigned transmission line structures, especially for large-diameter conductors. These inconsistencies are caused by considering a wind acting on an ice-coated conductor. The NESC light-loading requirement provides a minimum working limit that guards against values becoming too low, for the larger conductors."
"A study of the connection to aluminum conductor indicates that high pressures are required to effect a satisfactory connection and that relative movement between strands during tightening greatly assists in reducing contact resistance. A properly designed connector will incorporate means for applying high pressures with considerable distortion of the conductor. Heat-cycling tests which included mechanical stressing were found to be valuable in comparing designs. An aluminum-bodied connector with an aluminum screw gave satisfactory performance with both copper and aluminum conductors."
"Percentage revenue requirements are shown to change little as generating plant service life estimates are varied from 35 to 65 years. However, early retirement of old plants may affect the schedule of new additions in a long-range expansion pattern. In general, lowest present worth of all future revenue requirements is obtained by keeping old plants in service. Individual exceptions may exist because of transmission costs or site value for particular units. Optimum retirement date is shown to be an inisensitive function of fixed operation and maintenance expenses for a particular unit."
"The sodium-cooled graphitemoderated nuclear reactor concept is described. The Hallam Nuclear Power Facility (HNPF) for producing superheated steam to generate 75 electrical megawatts (mwe) net power represents a significant step toward the ultimate capabilities of this concept. A larger plant design, capable of 360-mwe gross output, is also presented. The advanced design is expected to produce steam thermodynamically comparable to modern steam plants economically competitive with fossil fueled stations in many areas of the United States. Two important characteristics of the sodium-cooled reactor concept are the excellent heat ransfer properties of liquid sodium and the inherent safety of a low-pressure reactor system. These characteristics are utilized extensively in this concept to minimize total power cost."
"Corona effects and a temporary high resistance introduced into the path of the return-stroke current are two factors that contribute to the determination of the velocity of the propagation and surge impedance of the return stroke. Using field theory concepts it is estimated that the surge impedance of the stroke is about 3,000 ohms. This quantity is of value in estimating the length of the last step and wave front of the stroke current."
"Radio-influence (RI) test results on 70 miles of 345-kv transmission line are presented. The design of the 345-kv transmission line using 954-MCM (thousand circular mils) ACSR (aluminum cable, steel reinforced) conductor bundled at 18-inch spacing, the use of standard suspension clamps, triangular space plates, and a horizontal phase spacing of 27 feet resulted in satisfactory RI level without control rings at the conductor hardware assemblies. Attenuation tests show that RI readings at one site are not materially affected by precipitation on the line a few miles away."
"Consideration is given to the problems created not only in drives themselves but also in the electrical systems which serve them as main unit sizes and pressures increase, and as more oncethrough boilers and cyclone furnaces are used. To help in solving these problems, various auxiliary system layouts, different types and arrangements of motor drives and mechanical drives, such as auxiliary turbines or main turbine-generator shafts, are discussed and a method of evaluating component reliability is given."
"The effective application of carrier for reliability under all conditions of power system variabilities in operation and equipment requires precise knowledge of power system conditions and characteristics of terminal carrier equipment. New developments and practices, plus the continual complexing of transmission systems by additional paralleling circuits, line taps, etc., made it desirable to up-date a similar report written in 1948. A preliminary bibliography appears at the end of the paper under the heading of \"References,\" but only 1 through 5 are mentioned in the text. All references apply to methods of measurement of carrier frequency properties of high-voltage lines and station equipment from 1940 to, and including, 1959."
"A series of programs developed for a small-scale digital computer, such as the IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) 650, to optimize the selection of future additions to generating capacity are discussed. Two detailed programs show how the annual load-duration curve has been adapted to propagate a series of new generator-requirement curves. These curves, giving new generation needs by type for future years, are then available for use in other programs mentioned which develop real expansion patterns and all costs associated with them."
"A new production-testing facility utilizing an analog computer to help test voltage regulators and excitation systems and, thereby, reduce installation time is described. Field tests and factory tests are indicated to show the accuracy of the computer simulation. An Appendix thoroughly discusses theory of analog computers."
"Recent improvements in amplidyne regulator excitation systems are discussed in this paper. It is shown that these developments improve performance, and that this type of system can be used with larger machines, as well as with machines with high excitation voltage response requirements."
"A new type of static excitation system for large generators is described, and its application features discussed. The component and performance specifications of the equipment are enumerated, and the results of tests presented to indicate the realization of design and performance objectives."
"This paper contains a description of the theory of operation and an equivalent circuit of a new static excitation system for large generators. Design considerations, including protective features and rectifier cooling system, are discussed, and confirmatory factory qualification tests are listed."
"The Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) like other utilities, is converting many of its substations for supervisory control. Visual inspection for blown fuses will be less frequent. This makes it necessary to develop a sensitive relay which will provide automatic protection for the capacitors. This relay has been designed to have enough sensitivity to meet the present protection requirement, that is to prevent consecutive failure of capacitors. It will also provide protection for phaseto- phase and phase-to-ground faults within the capacitors. This relay as it is applied to capacitor protection is known as a differential relay. But this relay is basically an overor undervoltage relay. Therefore, other applications can be made of it when it is applied to other equipment. This relay scheme, as it now stands, has a sensitivity of 0.5%. The Longview tests indicated the sensitivity was 0.4%, a marginal value. Finally, it is hoped that when the reliability of the relay is proved by field tests, further advantages can be derived from it. By relying on its protection against overvoltages, fewer and larger capacitor units may be used to reduce further the cost of a capacitor installation."
"The derivative of the function relating maximum station output to station discharge is discontinuous at certain points. The attendant difficulties in maximizing weighted hydro output were avoided in Part I by using a maximizing procedure based on tabulated values of output and discharge. Here an alternative procedure is presented. Maximum station output is approximated by a concave differential function of discharge. In maximizing weighted hydro output, the derivative plays an essential role and any physically possible discharge is permitted."
"In a preliminary study and evaluation of ELD transmission, it is desirable to have available a general but relatively simple method of estimating the magnitudes and interrelationships of the principal factors and variables. More detailed planning or design would, of course, require refinements and closer examination of operating and equipment limitations. The method incorporated in this paper involves the following assumptions and constraints: 1. Series and shunt compensating elements are applied in the pi configuration, and conmplete shunt compensation of the line sections is assumed. 2. Line loading or capability is based on a displacement angle of 30 degrees between the high-side terminal voltages. 3. Terminal power factors at the two ends are held at equal values, leading at the receiving end and lagging at the sending end. 4. Sending and receiving end terminal voltage magnitudes are restricted so that their geometric mean is equal to the nominal line voltage. The following general conclusions arise from the results of applying these restrictions to the studies reported herein, and these, in turn, prompt some comments and conjecture on the problems and prospects of ELD transmission in the range of 600 miles and beyond. 1. When unit transmission costs are considered in mills per kwhr, ELD transmission inherently calls for the utilization of EHV. 2. In ELD transmission, shunt compensation is required to control voltage conditions, and economic considerations dictate the use of relatively heavy series compensation, up to 80% and above. 3."
"Some popular types of high-voltage single-conductor duct-lay cable have insulating jackets over the sheaths. Examples are aluminum-sheathed cable and reinforced lead-sheathed cable. The jacket may be subjected to high abnormal a-c and impulse voltage stresses. The abnormal a-c voltage occurs on the cable sheaths during a ground fault in the line. The impulse voltages occur on the sheaths during switching. Several 230-kv and 60-kv oil-filled cable lines have been designed and installed and a 132-kv cable designed with sheath insulation to withstand these abnormal voltages. The voltage withstand levels adopted for the insulation of the sheaths and accessories are given. The means used for insulating the various parts of the sheath circuit are described and field testing to prove the quality of the completed installation is discussed. Naturally, in this virtually unexplored field, many questions remained unanswered. Some of these may be of vital importance. For example, one may ask whether it is really necessary to insulate the sheath circuit against the abnormal voltage which occurs during a fault to ground. After all, ground faults have occurred in high-voltage cable circuits having special bonding and bare lead sheaths; no secondary damage is known to have occurred because of the abnormal sheath voltage. Again, it may be asked whether it is sound economy to spend a lot of money to insulate the sheaths against fault voltages. The fault voltage will probably never occur, since most oil-filled lines have never had a failure."
"An idealized induction machine, having a conventional stator wound for excitation from a 2-phase source and a rotor consisting of a conducting sleeve mounted upon a cylinder of laminated iron, is analyzed by electromagnetic field theory. Expressions for the developed electrical torque voltages induced in the windings are derived. The method of analysis includes \"skin\" effects, i.e., the effects of the variation of rotor current density with depth within the rotor conductor, and end effects due to closure of rotor current paths inside the air gap."
"Graphic curves are presented giving the stability limits of industrial synchronous motors as a function of the magnitude and duration of power system disturbances. A range of system impedances and motor rotary inertia is covered. The performance equations in a form suitable for solution on an analog computer are included."
"The problems presented by an undesirably steep speedversus phasewinding voltage curve for a single-phase capacitor-start capacitor-run induction motor are discussed. A method of calculating the voltage across the phase winding as a function of speed is given along with a brief flow diagram for a digital computer program for calculating this voltage. Experimental and calculated curves are given. Emphasis is placed on methods for correcting an undesirable speed-phase-winding voltage relationship."
"A study of control action on power systems using a network analyzer and an EDA (electronic differential analyzer) is described. Components on the Bonneville Power Administration's analyzer automatically adjust phase-angles of the generators in response to a system disturbance. Although primarily for stability studies, this equipment permits study of control problems, with the control transfer functions represented on the EDA."
"The proposed standards cover usual and unusual service conditions for power system communication apparatus similar to those already established for relays associated with power apparatus (ASA C37.1) and automatic station control supervisory, and telemetering equipments (ASA C37.2). The standard excludes carrier coupling capacitors and line traps, radio antennas, and various eind devices such as protective relays, supervisory control apparatus, and telemetering instruments. The standard covers usual and unusual environmental service conditions, nominal voltage ratings, allowable voltage and supply frequency variations and ripple, and insulation withstand voltage levels."
"Index of technical subjects and participants in discussions."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Panel 6 of TASO performed a monumental and very creditable task in organizing and accumulating data on the signal to interference ratios required for television service, as presented in its report. Because the Panel was uncertain as to the uses to which the F.C.C. might eventually put the data, the presentations were left in a relatively unfinished form. It is the purpose of this report to develop the data further into a form more useful for certain purposes and to develop the formulae for the application of these signal to interference ratios to the description of television service. As a by-product of this analysis it is hoped that the reader will have a better understanding of the basic concepts of quality and service. The report will be divided into two parts. In Part I, the TASO data will be reanalyzed and developed into the new form, and in Part II these results will be applied to the description of television service."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A computer program developed and used by the Department of Transport to determine nighttime sky wave signal interference to ground wave service is described. The formulas and sequences used by the program are discussed. A sample calculation of the program is given. The advantages of such a program, to the broadcast design engineer, are accuracy, reliability, speed and convenience."
"Experiments with a slope-feedback variable-velocity-scanning method for compressing the bandwidth of television signals are described. The test conditions were intended to demonstrate the method under favourable conditions and one test-pattern of moderate complexity-test-card 'C'-only was used. The experiments showed that smoothing of the signal by narrow bandwidth can be overcome using the method. But, even at best (corresponding to the least compression ratio observed = 1.7/1), spatial distortion of the received picture is noticeable."
"The first application, so far as is known, of a digital computer to television automatic switching control is presently in development under CBS auspices. The resulting system offers a considerable advance over previously-used techniques with respect to functional capacity, ease of revision of program schedule, and adaptability to changes in operating practice. In meeting these stringent requirements the computer approach proves to be economically sound, offering features unattainable by other means except at prohibitive cost."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Uniform terminology and a method of graphical representation are established. Factors affecting exposure uniformity are described by reviewing fundamental relations between the film exposure cycle and the television scan. Practical arrangements for recording television pictures on motion-picture film are described and analyzed. Effects of phosphor persistence are considered, and a detailed analysis of persistence effects in single-field recording is offered."
"Tube Registration. In recent years there has been considerable advancement made in the field of vidicons. If the number of tubes is to serve as an indication of advancement--a rather dubious criterion, I think--then there has indeed been much progress made. There are more than 20 vidicon types registered with EIA and at least an equal number of tubes with private labels by both American and foreign manufacturers. In addition, there are many experimental and developmental types still in the laboratory stage. No attempt will be made to cover this latter group if indeed such were possible. The rate of vidicon type registration is, to some extent, indicative of industry activity. Figure 1 shows the number of registrations by year; the rapid rise in rate in the past few years is apparent. Hopefully, the current standardization activity by the cognizant engineering committee of the Joint Electron Devices Engineering Council (JEDEC) will help reduce the rate without impeding technological advancement."
"The standard type VU meter has for many years been employed almost exclusively by broadcasters in the United States as a program level indicator. A new unit which should give better indication of peak loudness has now been developed and is being evaluated. This unit operates within the range of time constants specified by the FCC for transmitter aural modulation meters. A field test is now in progress, with a number of the new indicators in various studios throughout the country."
"The Voice of America, the international broadcasting service of the U. S. Information Agency, speaks for America in thirty-five different languages to a worldwide audience. The technical facilities that make this possible literally encircle the globe. Thirty shortwave transmitters at seven locations in the continental United States range in power from 25 to 200 kilowatts. Overseas, the VOA has nine relay stations with forty-seven transmitters ranging in power from 35 to 1,000 kilowatts. This presentation discusses the development of this technical system from its war-time inception. Highlighted in the discussion are the problems encountered in the development of the system, the techniques designed to counteract these obstacles, and future plans for strengthening the signal of the Voice of America."
"Observations on the use of both high and low-frequency precision offset for interference reduction have not indicated any severe problems due to propagation at least for Channel 4. Arrangements are being made for further observations on high VHF channels."
"Network radio broadcasting has changed considerably compared to the pre-television era. Fifteen years ago, the public looked toward radio for a complete repertoire of music, drama, comedy, and news. The affiliate stations were on the network most of the time and bulletins or special programs were automatically received. Any communications from network headquarters to the stations could be handled during station breaks. Now, however, the stations are off the network most of the time, and there is no simple way to alert these stations to receive urgent news bulletins or national emergency announcements."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Although the 5820 Image Orthicon received universal acceptance in the United States of America as the camera tube for studio and remote telecasts, its progress in Europe was impeded due to the existance of other picture originaing equipment which produced pictures superior in all respects other than sensitivity. As a result, considerable modification of the image orthicon tube was undertaken, culminating in the develoment of the 3 inch field mesh and 41/2 inch image orthicon tubes."
"The use of video tape recording equipment has increased the requirements for higher quality performance from image orthicons. The GL-8093 and its characteristics are described as a 3-inch image orthicon to meet this need. The GL-8092, a field-mesh version of the high sensitivity image orthicon, is described for color applications."
"A realistic engineering comparison of the service which can be provided at VHF and UHF is essential in the formulation of a television allocations plan. The critical technical factors are wave propagation, receiver noise figure, receiving antennas, interference, and transmitter power. A consideration of these factors leads to the conclusion that the service provided by the 70 UHF channels is far less than 70/12 times the service provided by the 12 VHF channels. It is suggested that VHF service may be increased by the use of directional transmitting antennas, and UHF service by the development of satisfactory on-channel boosters."
"The Federal Communications Commission is in the process of conducting a test of UHF television in New York City to determine the technical and economic feasibility of using this band to provide satisfactory television service to large cities with special emphasis on the canyon areas of such cities. This paper summarizes the Project organization and provides a progress report. Since the transmitting installation has just been brought into a near completion stage, and the Project will last for another year, this is a discussion of the method of attack rather than a report of results obtained."
"In order to realize the advantages which solid state devices may bring to television broadcast operations, a program has been undertaken to provide solid state modular components in building block form for television broadcast terminal equipment, featuring low power consumption, small size and great reliability."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The future excellence of our educational system will depend largely upon the extent to which the capabilities of modern technology are exploited. TV in particular promises to play an important role by solving many problems in elementary, secondary, and higher education. MPATI, a large scale educational experiment involving a TV transmitter in an aircraft, is beginning operations this spring."
"During the first semester of 1960-61 at the University of Wisconsin an experiment in education by TV has been conducted by the University in co-operation with Wisconsin industries. The occasion for this particular experiment was that travel between Milwaukee and Madison by the E.E. staff for the E.E. Department's part-time graduate program in Milwaukee has grown to be so burdensome that the Department has been reevaluating the program in terms of effort expended and results obtained. This reevaluation led to general dissatisfaction with the educational validity of graduate courses run once a week for a period of 2-1/ 2 hours in the evening. A first attempt to improve the program involved beginning the session at 4:30 P.M. (instead of 7:20 P.M. which had been the starting time). This change brought some improvement, but feeling remained general that performance was still inadequate."
"The current trend in cathode-ray tube designs for use in modern TV receivers seem to fall into two categories: (1) More rectangular or ``squared off'' faceplates in order to provide more viewing area for a given aspect ratio. (2) Increased deflection angles so that the overall length of the CRT may be reduced for a given deflection angle. This is necessary for the popular ``slimline'' type of cabinetry."
"During the past year, several triode RF Amplifier tubes have been developed for Television receiver usage which have contributed significant improvement in noise figure. Typical of these are the Types 6FQ5A and 6GK5 in T-5½ envelopes."
"A Foster-Seeley discriminator is used to detect the FM or PM information in a stereo signal. It is desired to design the detector for optimum sensitivity and linearity without excessive sacrifice of gain in the last I-F stage."
"Since the quality of E. H. Land's two-color pictures has been subject to discussion, two groups of students were asked to judge the quality of Land's pictures. The preparation of the slides and the experimental setup is described. The results show the inferiority of E. H. Land's system in its actual form to ordinary tricolor projection. From the results it appears that the mechanism of color transformation works well with most people tested, but that the lack of information contained in the slide photographed through the blue filter is considered serious. An interesting detail is that a minority of people can detect very little or no difference between the two forms of projection."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The operation of and design approaches to mechanical and piezoelectric electric wave filters are discussed. The literature is reviewed and typical values for resonator and filter characteristics are presented."
"Now that the first demonstrations of satellite-relayed transoceanic television may occur within two years, what is the probable future of satellite broadcasting? This study examines problems of broadcasting via satellites directly to home television receivers, compared with those of relaying to earth-terminals and rebroadcasting locally. The former eventually may be possible, but would require high-power, highly engineered satellites and would involve other problems, which are discussed here. Direct FM audio broadcasting may be less difficult but also less spectacular and rewarding."
"This paper describes a unique method for specifying the gain control characteristics of high frequency transistors over their entire AGC range. The forward gain control characteristics of transistors can be measured by means of a curve tracer to permit the specification, within published limits, of the high frequency power gain versus collector to emitter voltage curve. While this report describes the specification of forward gain control characteristics the system can also be used for reverse gain control specifications."
"A brief review of the performance requirements and other factors influencing the design of VHF television tuners is presented, including some of the unforeseen problems encountered during development of a new design. The basic electrical similarity between tuners of different manufacturers is pointed out, which suggests that significant design improvement might best be obtained by concentrating attention on mechanical rather than electrical factors. Development of a new compact tuner was begun with maximum use of molded plastic parts, reduction of the number of mechanical parts, and suitability for automatic production techniques as the main design objectives. A final design was completed and the tuner is now in production. A description of the novel features of this tuner indicates how the design objectives were reached and greater product uniformity and lower costs realized."
"Impulse noise interference, such as may be caused by sparking electric motors or automobile ignition systems, can interfere with the performance of a television receiver in the following principal ways: First, the impulses appear directly in the picture; second, the synchronization separator input circuit may charge up to such an extent that the picture loses synchronization; third, the impulses may provide false information to the AGC system thereby causing a sharp reduction receiver gain. Of the three, the latter two effects are by far the more serious. Consequently, noise ``suicide'' or noise inverter circuits, for the protection of the sync separator and AGC circuits have been widely used."
"The capability of rapid frequency selection coupled with crystal controlled tuning accuracy are the salient features of this solid-state receiver. The heart of the system is a discrete local oscillator. It consists of an electronically tuned oscillator which is phase-locked to a selected harmonic of a master crystal. Since there are no mechanical adjustments necessary, the receiver can be built in a small, light-weight package."
"A new solid-state display device utilizing certain unique properties of piezoelectric and electroluminescent materials is described and the principles of operation are reviewed. The device requires only four properly timed electrical inputs to produce a spot of light at any selected point on the display panel. The timing relationships are derived and a system capable of producing the required drive signals is described. Oscilloscope patterns are generated on the panel by a point-by-point plot of suitably processed X-and Y-input signals."
"A flat phase linear IF pass band should be designed into a high fidelity stereo tuner. A vector analysis of a tuner exhibiting an equivalent 5 usec. deemphasis in its output voltage vs. frequency characteristics shows that the major cause of poor stereo performance is related to the level differences of the L + R and L - R channels. A simple adjustment of the L + R level control in the synchronous oscillator stereophonic adapter circuit described can correct this difference."
"From the FM discriminator in the receiver we derive the composite signal containing a low frequency audio signal, a modulated subcarrier and a pilot signal related to the subcarrier. The stereophonic signal demodulator can operate on the composite signal in such fashion as to produce directly a left and right stereophonic signal."
"In arriving at a suitable choice of transmission parameters for stereophonic FM broadcasting, consideration must be given to several factors, as follows: 1. The modulation choice should provide an aurally-balanced program for the monophonic listener. 2. A reasonable compromise should be made between the stereophonic signal-to-noise ratio and the monophonic signal-to-noise ratio as compared to monophonic broadcasting. 3. Receivers designed for the system should be capable of reliable operation yet should be reasonably inexpensive. 4. If possible, the system should provide an additional channel for other services without degrading the desired service."
"The development of a new type of power transistor has made possible the construction of ultra-high-performance audio-frequency amplifiers which can equal the performance of the finest vacuum-tube amplifiers available. The design, construction, and performance characteristics of such an amplifier, using RCA drift-field power transistors, is discussed. The amplifier is capable of providing a power output of 50 watts at less than one-half per cent distortion from 20 cycles to 20,000 cycles. Also discussed are a five-watt class A amplifier and a 15-watt-per-channel stereo amplifier which combine high performance with economy."
"This paper discusses the use of the Nuvistor triode in two- and three stage if amplifiers and places particular emphasis on neutralization. Theoretical stable-gain limits are also discussed and the results of practical designs are presented."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"I would like to express my thanks and that of Westinghouse for being asked to participate in this panel discussion on radio and television. My remarks will be confined primarily to the airborne ultra high frequency television system installed in the DC6 aircraft which are being used by the Midwest Program on Airborne Television Instruction, in Lafayette, Indiana for educational television broadcasts. However, in leading up to this system I would like to review a little bit of the history of airborne television and why we at Westinghouse became interested in this project."
"For high volume commercial radio production to custom specifications, the specification of meaningful parameters can result in better quality, low cost transistors."
"General requirements of the FM stereo receiver are reviewed with emphasis on high quality stereo performance commensurate with the system capability. In the commercially manufactured receivers described, proper attention has been given to each of these requirements, and the stereo demodulation circuits are integrated within the radio chassis. Two approaches are covered; one, a complete self-contained stereo FM radio, and the other, a novel solution to the conversion problem for existing FM receivers. The latter consists of a ``Multiplexer'' receiver which is not an ``adaptor'' and which requires no connection to the monaural receiver. Circuit details and performance data are included."
"A program was initiated in the fall of 1959 to design an electrostatic transducer for the remote control of television receivers. The required specifications were as follows"
"The noise figure of a transistor converter may be expressed in terms of the usual transistor and circuit parameters (source resistance, base resistance, emitter-base diode impedance, current gain, cutoff frequency, and conversion conductance). Theoretical values are in good agreement with measured values."
"This report describes a three-transistor d.c. coupled video amplifier. The low frequency gain, thermal stability., input impedance, frequency response, distortion, rise time and signal handling capability of the amplifier are discussed and the results of the measurements are given."
"A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Complex, flexible, computer programs can be written easily in list-processing languages. Storage registers are linked together in arbitary sequences to form lists and list structures, which are the units of the languages. Special provisions are made for recursive subroutines and for hierarchical programs. These particular languages have been used to write game-playing, problem-solving, and other ``intelligent'' programs."
"Methods of reading for the blind are discussed, mindful of the human-factors and systems-engineering concepts involved. Machines to allow independent reading of ink-print by the blind are classified in terms of cost, complexity, auditory or tactile output, usefulness, ease of operation, and learning problems. Current experiments in character recognition are briefly mentioned, and in conclusion reference is made to using the technical advances on related problems to speed developments in this field. Also mentioned are the widespread application of the benefits of current research to both civilian and veteran populations and the probable need for prescription teams when devices become available for routine use."
"Men and computers could cooperate more efficiently in real-time systems-and perhaps in long-range planning too- if a man could tell the computers how he wanted decisions made, and then let the machine make the decisions for him. In the next few years there will probably be considerable pressure on system designers to adopt such arrangements. The problem of enabling a man to convey his decision rules to a machine will in many cases prove less formidable than it might at first appear. Three methods are discussed. As experience with man-machine cooperation of this type accumulates, problems for research will be generated. An attempt is made to foresee what some of them will be."
"How do problem-solving programs work? How much has been accomplished with them so far? What kinds of developments may be anticipated over the next few years? Two research programs under development are discussed as illustrations of the evolution of heuristic programming systems. Applications of these techniques in studies of problem solving in mathematics and symbolic logic, in industrial and business problems, in laboratory tasks, chess playing and the understanding of language also are considered. The emphasis throughout is on exposition of methods and goals. The paper concludes with a discussion of longer range problems, aspirations, and research strategies in work on artificial intelligence."
"Research in the field of automatic speech recognition is reviewed. Despite the considerable effort which has been devoted to this field, the results are still quite limited."
"This listing is intended as an introduction to the literature on Artificial Intelligence-i.e., to the literature dealing with the problem of making machines behave intelligently. We have divided this area into categories and cross-indexed the references accordingly. Large bibliographies, without some classification facility, are next to useless. This particular field is still young, but there are already many instances in which workers have wasted much time in rediscovering (for better for for worse) schemes already reported. In the last year or two this problem has become worse, and in such a situation just about any information is better than none."
"An experiment was conducted to compare the relative speed and accuracy of reading digits aloud and keypunching digits. The five subjects used in the experiment had no prior experience in keypunching. These subjects read digits at about twice the speed at which they could keypunch even after several hours of practice. However, the subjects indicated that keypunching was an easier task. Reading errors, as judged by a human listener, were not very different in number from keypunching errors."
"The rate at which a man can transmit information in simple pursuit and compensatory systems is measured. Highest transmission rates are obtained with input signals whose power-density spectra correspond to RC-filtered noise. Pursuit systems gave higher transmission rates than compensatory."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Diagnostic skill involves recognizing symptoms of unusual or atypical functioning or structure, understanding the meaning of these symptoms, and evolving the ways in which such knowledge can be applied in the discovery of other existing symptoms and in the isolation of existing defects. The talents involved in diagnosis and the characteristics of the search for symptoms and defects are outlined."
"Electronic equipment is becoming increasingly complex, and proper performance and high availability are becoming more crucial. A recent emphasis on improving maintenance planning and implementation is one method being used to assure meeting availability requirements. Human-factors contributions are essential to electronic-maintenance planning and implementation in all phases of equipment design and support. Much effort has been devoted to preparing guides for designing more maintainable equipment, but results have been little used. In the areas of equipment support, maintenance methods and procedures (both in general and for specific equipments) are being improved, but they still reflect too little knowledge of the maintenance man in the maintenance environment. Human-factors skills are being applied, with varying degrees of effectiveness, to the formulation of maintenance-manpower data, planning of support environment, installation, publications, and training. Trends, particularly those noted in manned space-travel programs, indicate that human-factors efforts in the area of electronic maintenance will improve and form a very valuable contribution to the over-all efforts to improve maintenance."
"The evolution of electronic systems maintenance philosophy is explored in terms of performance requirements, studies of behavioral patterns, technical training requirements, engineering design, and management competences. The probable degree of success in utilizing the teaching machine for employee and customer technical training involving the maintenance of complex electronic systems is considered."
"Two analyses of maintenance technicians' intermediate behavior in trouble-shooting electronic equipment are reported. In the first, 422 records of this behavior were analyzed to describe the characteristics of the process. It was found that technicians frequently accumulated sufficient symptom information from test points to isolate a malfunctioning stage or to identify a faulty component, before they recognized this fact. Typically, either they continued to make redundant or irrelevant checks before entering the correct stage or replacing the correct part, or they never did use the information and thus failed to solve the problem. Also, 71 per cent of the first replacements of components were incorrect. Evidently, searching for symptom information and interpretation of that information occur on two different behavioral levels, which are not necessarily closely coordinated."
"The relationships among down time (a system-maintainability measure), time between failures (a system-reliability measure), equipment availability, number of equipments, number of on-call technicians, and system-readiness reliability are developed under the assumption of constant failure and repair rates. Design trade-off between reliability and maintainability is shown to be feasible with resulting reduction in both design and operating costs. A technique for specifying combined reliability, maintainability, and availability constraints to manufacturers is reported which allows the latter a great deal of design flexibility in meeting operational requirements at least cost. Finally, the need for research to establish the quantitative effects of maintainability-design practice upon down time is explored."
"A study was conducted to answer certain questions basic to the design of more maintainable circuits. The subjects were 210 engineers, all of whom had considerable experience in electronics. Questionnaires, designed to elicit information on the primary factors affecting fault-location time, were devised for 13 representative circuits varying over a wide frequency range. A statistical analysis of the subjects' responses was conducted to determine whether any general conclusions could be drawn from the replies taken as a group. Results indicated that certain parameters yield more trouble-shooting information on all circuits and that these parameters remain approximately the same for the whole frequency range studied. In addition, it was found that oscilloscopes were considered to be the most efficient test device available. This result points out a problem, since a number of studies have shown that technicians have difficulty in using oscilloscopes and, as a result, prefer meters. Suggestions are made for circumventing this problem. A number of other analyses pointed out areas in which no generalities could be drawn, e.g., regarding the most efficient test-point locations. An attempt was made to reconcile these problems temporarily until more data are available."
"Generalized findings, based on work carried out in the development of the Index of Electronic Maintainability for the U. S. Army Signal Corps, are reported on the quantification of expert judgment in the area of maintenance and maintainability. Results of this study indicated that judgments of maintenance consequences can be reliably obtained from field-maintenance personnel if proper precautions are observed in the development and utilization of the rating instruments. Further, these results revealed considerable consistency of ratings across various types of equipment, thus implying that this generality may be extended to new equipments. This generality also eases the problem of obtaining adequate numbers of raters, since the type of experience that the rater bases his judgments on does not appear to be highly specific. No evidence was presented concerning the amount or degree of experience required for competent raters. Finally, three suggested applications of the techniques described are presented, and some of the benefits to be derived from these applications are briefly discussed."
"An experiment was conducted to compare two parameters of trouble-shooting overlay design: type of point-to-point connection and type of coding. Eighteen subjects were used in the experiment. They were asked to trace four tests on each of four different designs encompassing the two parameters. The results indicated that the optimum design is straight-line point-to-point connection with color coding."
"Two studies were conducted to determine the extent and nature of human-initiated failures in missile systems. The first study1 compared malfunction data obtained from written reports with data gathered from interviews with line and supervisory personnel. The study revealed large discrepancies in emphasis and extent of data between the reporting methods. Written reports generally were concerned only with failed equipment; interview data with operational, near, or possible malfunctions. The results indicated that personnel tend to report human-initiated malfunctions as equipment malfunctions, thus avoiding incrimination of themselves or their fellow workers. The second study2 attempted to establish the extent of unreported human-initiated malfunctions. Examination indicated that in individual missile systems, human-initiated malfunctions comprised from 20 to 53 per cent of all system malfunctions. It was also revealed that in two missile systems, human-initiated holds accounted for 16 and 23 per cent of total holds, respectively. Human-initiated malfunction data were further classified into the kinds of operations in which these malfunctions occurred. The percentages in these classifications are indicated in this report. Malfunction-reporting practices were reviewed to establish their effectiveness in revealing these data and to indicate the way in which the reporting schemes serve, or fail to serve, the problem of indicating human-initiated malfunction in order that corrective action may be taken."
"Some degree of automation for the checkout and trouble-shooting of complex equipment may be necessitated by the little time available for performing these maintenance actions. Although seldom is there a requirement for a high degree of automation, so much attention has been drawn to the elimination of human errors that maintenance may be automated even though automation is not required. To capitalize upon both the merits of automation and the capabilities of humans, an integrated program is proposed for the analysis of maintenance requirements and the evaluation of man-machine alternatives for meeting these requirements."
"The dearth of research data on maintainability prevents objectivity in making design recommendations to reduce equipment down time. This paper summarizes the results of the few published attempts to determine experimentally the effects of equipment design variables upon only one source of down time, namely, fault localization time. All data are normalized and plotted as probability distributions on semilog paper to emphasize their apparent exponential nature. The results are compared with similar data on effects of training to indicate the efficiency of design considerations for maintainability. Finally, a plea is made for more research data in this important area."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The basic components of the data-transmission system described above have been in operation for over a year and have given satisfactory service. There has been practically no change in the original choice of components. They were chosen because of their known reliability and stability and for the purpose of having the system operational as Soon as possible. The maintenance required has been reasonable (chiefly the usual replacemenlt of tubes). In the light of the advancement of transistorized circuits, it is advisable to incorporate such circuits into any future redesign. This would, no doubt, have the additional advantages of conserving space and reducing power onsumption."
"Curves have been presented for the design and application of a sweep-type spectrum analyzer suitable for operation with random inputs. These curves show the relationship between resolution, stability, and sweep time. Qualitative rules are included for the design of the filters, as are methods of avoiding certain errors in the use of spectrum analyzers by equalization of the signal."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"An improved event recorder has been developed which is capable of resolving the time-relationships among two-state events to within two milliseconds. Conducting styli, writing on electrosensitive chart paper, are switched on or off by transistor circuits functioning as nonmechanical relays having fast response, high sensitivity, and minimum size."
"A device to measure the number of turns and the presence of short circuits between turns is described. It will measure, depending on the construction of the magnetic comparator, cylindrical coils with or without a ferromagnetic core. The accuracy for the number of turns measured is ± 0.1 per cent. Short-circuited turns, either intentional or accidental, affect only slightly the accuracy of the measurement of the number of unfaulted turns only slightly. On coils without an iron core, the presence of one short-circuited turn of No. 25 AWG copper wire can be detected."
"Where a dc motor is supplied energy from a storage battery or other fixed voltage source, variable-speed operation is usually accomplished by adding resistance in series with the motor supply. In this type of control, only 3 part of the total energy delivered by the source is available at the motor to do useful work. The balance of the energy is converted into heat by the series resistance and is lost. A more desirable approach to speed control, as presented in this report, is to insert a switch rather than a resistor in series with the motor's supply. Here the switch would be opened and closed at regular intervals which would represent infinite or zero series resistance, respectively. In either state, the switch would present no energy losses to the circuit. The motor speed varies with the percentage of time the switch remains closed. The latter system has the advantage that for a given speed setting, variations in load will not cause fluctuations in speed due to IR drop in any series resistor. The transistorized switching circuit described in detail in this report represents an efficient method of switching the motor supply current for good speed control. The laboratory model, which gave very satisfactory performance, was designed to control 20 amperes at 24 volts, or approximately a one-half horsepower motor. This rating may be increased with only minor modifications to the circuit."
"With the introduction of power semiconductors, it is possible to accomplish many functions statically that were previously accomplished with electro-mechanical devices. The use of static components results in improved performance with reduced maintenance. The tension and loop control described in this paper features the use of static circuits."
"A novel-design welding machine has been constructed to attach the precious-metal contacts required on the switch springs of the crossbar-type telephone central office equipments. Parts are carried through the various checking stations and the multiple welding nest by a geneva-driven high-speed transfer mechanism. The electronic weld control is a 20-unit modular minimum-size packaged capacitor discharge welder utilizing circuits designed to provide a high degree of reliability with semiskilled electrical maintenance. Carded units of ten switch springs are transferred through the welding nest where 20 contacts are fed, welded, clipped, and checked on a 3/4-second cycle. The speed of 100,000 welds per hour permits this machine to replace 20 previous machine units, thus realizing large manufacturing-cost reduction."
"In addition to the present uses of electronic data processing machines in computation, business accounting, simulation, literature retrieval, and the like, these devices could also be used as a central repository for the storage and rapid retrieval of the information we now put on engineering drawings, specifications, process sheets, bills of material, and so forth. However, the data formats commonly used in computation and accounting do not appear to be adequate to the retrieval problem involved, while literature retrieval methods do not have the precision required in production work. A data format or ``language'' is proposed which is loose enough to contain all possible engineering or production information, but precise enough to permit accurate retrieval. The price paid for these features is the formulation of a large dictionary of identifiers, and some inflation of storage requirements."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes the design of a fully transistorized image orthicon camera. Through the use of detailed circuit descriptions in areas such as the preamplifier, shading circuits and focus current regulator, the advantages transistors offer are pointed out. These advantages show themselves in the form of substantial reduction in weight, size, cost and operating power. Charts and photographs are used to describe in detail the sensitivity, capabilities and applications of such a camera. Schematics are used in describing pertinent circuit advantages."
"General Purpose Digital Computers are now making their appearance in industrial plants. For the most part, they do not merely mechanize tasks previously handled by humans but make possible an entirely new era in control of complicated processes. Industrial Control Computers are now being designed for such applications. This paper discusses in basic terms the characteristics and performance features of Industrial Computers, and how they can increase process profitability. Computer Speed, Memory Capacity, Kind of Memory, Mechanical Design, Programming Features, Reliability and other specifications are related to requirements of Industrial Control. A typical application analysis is explained through use of a high-speed tin plate line as an illustrative example. Several suggestions are offered as an aid in the writing of better purchase specifications. Currently about three years are needed to go from first conception to an operating Industrial Computer installation. A discussion is given of the many tasks to be completed by user and supplier in this process."
"The principles of infrared thermometry are reviewed. Basic properties of infrared optical materials and detectors are presented with reference to design and performance of the radiation thermometer. Application of the radiometric method to a broad class of common industrial materials forms the substance of this paper. Recent extensions of the method to temperature measurement of flames, glass and plastics are described. Applications of special interest to the Radio Engineer are included."
"A block diagram of the basic building blocks of phase-shift data-transmission systems is outlined in Figure 1. These basic blocks establish a reference time base in one or more synchro receivers to which phase signals may be compared. A pulse source generates a train of pulses which provide this time base for the system. This chain of pulses is divided down in the reference counter and provides two 400-cycle (chosen for convenience) square-wave signals which are 90° out of phase. These signals are filtered and amplified in the synchro exciter and appear as outputs of the exciter in the form of two sinusoidal, 400-cycle signals 90° out of phase. The two sinusoids are used to excite the two stator windings of one or more synchro resolvers. The voltage induced in the rotor of each synchro resolver is a constant-amplitude, 400-cycle sinusoid whose phase angle with respect to the reference is equal to the mechanical angle of the rotor."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A reliability test program known as a ``Search for Critical Weaknesses'' has been put into operation by the Convair-Astronautics Reliability Organization. The function of this program is to detect critical component weaknesses so that corrective action can be taken before operational failure occurs. Components selected for testing are subjected to combined environmental severlties at and beyond the design requirements. This is done in order to establish a margin of safety and to be able to reassess component reliability in the event that actual flight environments differ from those expected. After completing the first three phases of this program, 203 component types, consisting of 980 individual specimens have been evaluated. A fourth phase in which 105 component types are being tested is nearing completion and a fifth phase has been initiated. This paper covers the testing procedures and the techniques used in determining the relative component reliability during the first three phases of the testing program. In addition, an explanation of representative components' weaknesses was revealed during the tests, and the corrective action taken has been included."
"It is shown that circuit drift failures may be eliminated by worst-case design procedures but that a considerable price is paid for this immunity in the form of increased system complexity, increased component stresses and increased power demand. Consideration of the entire problem leads to the conclusion that decreasing the probability of circuit drift failures (by increasing the tolerance margin of the circuit) tends to increase the probability of component catastrophic failures and that consequently an optimum component tolerance design point exists for maximum system reliability. The optimum tolerance margin depends upon the specific system and generally varies inversely with the number of components comprising the system. Thus, to maintain a specified system reliability in the face of increasing system complexity, it is necessary to assume a decreasing component parameter spread (tighter tolerances) and a decreasing component catastrophic failure rate. Both of these requirements may be relaxed if some form of redundancy is introduced to overcome the inevitable occurrence of catastrophic failures."
"This paper examines some of the problems involved in measuring missile reliability during its prelaunch phase. This is an important problem for three reasons: 1) a missile typically is exposed to many kinds of operating environments over long periods of time before it is launched; 2) a missile's reliability history in its prelaunch operating environments is an index of its in-flight reliability; and 3) the major cost of a missile weapon system derives from the consequences of its prelaunch reliability behavior. Most of the emphasis to date in reliability measurement efforts has been focused, on the inflight environment, to the near-exclusion of the important prelaunch environment. Attempts to infer prelaunch reliability on the basis of data collected for other purposes, such as supply transactions, have shown that this is not an adequate substitute for direct measurements. This document provides an approach to the problem specifically oriented to the collection and analysis of reliability data. Reliability measurement requirements stem directly from the basic definition of reliability: the probability that an aggregate will successfully perform a specified task in a specified environment over a specified period of time. Several of the most important prelaunch operating environments are: turn-on (-off), checkouts, countdowns, operating alert, standby alert, handling, transportation, periodic maintenance and storage."
"Due to the emphasis placed on the interchange of test data and also on the attempt to give the defense effort the best possible test information, two particular programs have been promulgated: The NOL Component Reliability History Program (FBMWS) and the efforts of the Battelle Memorial Institute's Electronic Component Research Center which have been in existence for several years now. This paper describes the different aspects of each program and the mechanics of each. The NOL Program is for the use of Fleet Ballistic Missile Weapons System (FBMWS) contractors and the Battelle Program is funded by contributions of the members. This paper also indicates how Librascope, as a participating member with a small evaluation group, gleans the most results from membership in these two programs."
"In the development of complex military electronic equipment, It is necessary to consider the effects of many interacting operational and design factors. For both the over-all weapon system, and for the electronic subsystems with which we are concerned, optimum trade-offs for such interdependent parameters as reliability, weight, accuracy, maintainability, cost, mission time, and target vulnerability must be determined. Considered individually, these parameters do not adequately describe the operational worth of equipment incorporating multiple redundancies and operating modes. Operational worth is the probability that a system will achieve success in performing its required functions, and is obviously a prime consideration in the planning and selection of systems for military applilcation. The inadequacy in describing operational worth in terms of its individual parameters was encountered in the synthesis of an optimum redundant configuration for the B-58 bombing-navigation system. To resolve this difficulty, operational worth models describing the interaction between parameters were developed and utilized by Sperry Gyroscope Company. These techniques enabled Sperry to design this bombing-navigation system to have a high operational worth and an inherent mission reliability in excess of 95 per cent. In this paper, the model for ``system worth,'' the interaction between reliability and information quality, is discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Readers are invited to participate in a data-collection effort, conducted by SCARDE (Study Committee for the Analysis of Research, Development, and Engineering) on the patterns of man-power and money utilization currently found in R and D projects. The aggregated and summarized data should provide valuable insights into current practices in a variety of industries and firms of different sizes, and be useful to researchers interested in a quantitative approach to the management of R and D activities. Strict procedures to safeguard proprietary information have been established. The background and results of a pilot study are indicated, and an example of the possible use of the study results is presented."
"Scientists and technologists are in the midst of an enormous social experiment, involving the growth of many new skill groups and the undertaking of very large and complex R and D projects. The boundaries of the engineering profession and a philosophy of organizing complex projects are discussed. Some effects on engineering education are traced. Differences between engineers and scientists are examined in the context of the ``research and development explosion.'' Traditional functional differences are being erased, but some differences in personal and social characteristics are described."
"Technological change creates strains within the structure of the firm because it causes shifts in the relative power and influence between groups. The arrival of new groups in an organization such as a research laboratory creates linguistic problems: the language of the laboratory is different from that of the design activity and still different from that of the shop. To bridge the linguistic gap, interpreter or liaison groups are formed. In establishing these groups, management attempts to accommodate organizational strains within the existing structure rather than re-organize to reflect the new technology. This study is based on the experiences of twenty firms in England and Scotland."
"One of the most important functions of research management is to establish objective criteria for measuring the progress and performance of the research effort. Another important aspect is to allocate resources to research projects in the ``best'' manner. Two systematic procedures were developed in a large research laboratory to assist management in these tasks. The first is a Data Presentation System which provides a means for recording and presenting the status, progress and plans for the research laboratory in terms of the allocation of resources. The second is an Evaluation System which provides a means for evaluating the technical and economic elements relative to research projects."
"A ready force is defined as one designed to have a decisive capability in a short war in which the decision is reached before reserves and production capability can supplement the forces existing at the time hostilities begin. It is assumed that annual expenditures to equip, train, maintain and operate the ready force are constant. Within this constraint, it is desired to attain maximum effectiveness by balancing quality against quantity of weapons. Maximum quantity of weapons would be attained by selecting one type, and producing this type indefinitely, in view of decreasing unit production costs with number produced. However, rapid advancement of the state-of-the-art creates weapon obsolescence and, periodically, old weapons must be phased out and new weapons phased in. Maximum quality can be attained at the expense of quantity by very small production runs with frequent introduction of new weapons. The optimum program of effective weapons in sufficient quantity represents a compromise between the two extremes. A model incorporating the variables of production cost, number of weapons produced, operating cost, growth of the state-of-the-art, effectiveness and budgetary limits is developed for a very simple model of warfare, and the relations among the variables for maximum force effectiveness are determined."
"Several simulated research problems have been programmed for the IBM 704 computer. Six different empirical research strategies have also been programmed for the computer. The \"research problems\" are \"solved\" by the computer using one of the six strategies to learn which is best. The computer uses each research strategy on each problem several times to get a statistical evaluation of its effectiveness. The work is not complete as yet; however, it has already had an influence on the way we are tackling some of our research problems."
"Several areas of possible application of information theory are discussed: 1) communication in automation, 2) forecasting, and 3) production processes. In the production area, the following possible applications are examined: ``reduction of uncertainty'' in raw materials and information content of a design. An example is given for a milling machine operation."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The affiliate plan, established by the IRE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IRE, but who have an interest in the field of engineering management, to join PGEM. Research administrators and social scientists interested in the research process especially are welcomed as affiliates. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society affiliated with PGEM. Current affiliates are listed below. Affiliates will pay a smaller fee than the regular members of IRE-PGEM and will have all the privileges of PGEM except that of holding elective office. Affiliates will receive the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT. PGEM hopes that the affiliates will help accelerate the interdisciplinary exchange of information in this rapidly advancing area of research-on-research."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Two examples of plant design are described and an abstract model of the process of design is suggested. The model is used to discuss the search for possible solutions, the strategies for their examination, and the rules for choosing between them. It seems likely that the model applies only to problems requiring novel solutions and not to those for which the form of solution is known, but the choice of parameters to meet conflicting objectives is difficult."
"An analytical scheme is presented for measuring the physical completion of engineering effort and relating this to the appropriate segment of a budget curve, representing planned expenditure of effort. The method was developed in connection with weapons systems projects. A measure (the delta factor) is devised of the variation of actual physical engineering completion from the standard or expected value. A computational algorithm for the delta formula is given. Illustrations are given of its use as a diagnostic tool."
"A technique is described for the development of system objectives, requirements, specifications, and conceptual design. It is derived from experience with a number of actual systems in the fields of air defense and airborne fire control. The need for precise knowledge of system functional objectives is stressed. A checklist relating to envirionmental requirements is presented. A seven-step process is described from functional objectives to model and test."
"This paper describes the engineering organization which was set up by a contractors' team to design a major Air Force Communication System. It discusses some aspects of the first year's operation."
"Some deficiencies in the practice of systems management, and the need for an ``architect'' in addition to the contractor are presented. The ``core concept'' is described. Several advantages of this approach are indicated and its separation from hardware design and fabrication are stressed."
"As we began to evolve large integrated military systems for the missile age in the early 1950's, it became apparent that two arts had to develop simultaneously: one was that of developing a body of knowledge for designing large interdependent systems (systems engineering), and the other was that of developing managerial tools for controlling the business aspects of such systems developments (systems management). The problem was not automatically solved when, for example, the Air Force turned over to individual contractors the responsibility for entire systems. It was hoped that this line of action would insure the integration of all elements of each system, simplify fund justification, minimize costs, and guarantee operational readiness. Industry accepted this system philosophy. Unfortunately, from the management point of view we have not solved the problems of developing the tools necessary to control systems projects so that delivery schedules and financial objectives could be met. During the 1960's some of the elements of system integration control will swing back to government because industry has muffed the chance of a generation."
"Real-time digital systems are largely a technical innovation of the past decade, but they appear destined to become more wide spread in the future. They monitor or control a real physical environment, such as an air-traffic situation, as distinguished from simulating that environment on an arbitrary time scale. The complexity and rapid variation of such an environment necessitates use of a fast and versatile central-control device, a role well suited to digital computers. The usual system will include some combination of sensors, communication, control, display, and effectors. Although many parts of such a system pose no novel management problems, their distinguishing feature, the central digital device, frequently presents unusually strict requirements for speed, capacity, reliability and compatibility, together with the need for a carefully deisgned stored program. These features, particularly the last, have implications that are not always foreseen by management. An attempt is made to point out specific hazards common to most real-time digital systems and to show a few ways of minimizing the risks associated with them."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The affiliate plan, established by the IRE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IRE, but who have an interest in the field of engineering management, to join PGEM. Research administrators and social scientists interested in the research process especially are welcomed as affiliates. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society affiliated with PGEM. Current affiliates are listed below. Affiliates will pay a smaller fee than the regular members of IRE-PGEM and will have all the privileges of PGEM except that of holding elective office. Affiliates will receive the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT. PGEM hopes that the affiliates will help accelerate the interdisciplinary exchange of information in this rapidly advancing area of research-on-research."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A case study is presented of the changes in the ratio of ``administrative'' to ``productive'' personnel in the aircraft engine division of a large industrial firm. The ratio is traced over an eight year period through growth and decline stages. Some contributing factors and consequences of the A/P index are examined."
"The early leaders in corporate organization are found to be the giants of industry today. Following the move of the past decade to corporate decentralization is a new trend toward the recentralizing of management planning and specialized service. The result is a new form of corporate structure toward which both large corporations and groups of small companies can evolve. This structure appears to combine the better features of both the large and the small organization. It is made necessary by the complexity of present-day business management, and is made possible by the new technologies of electronic data processing, business communications, and high-speed transportation."
"Several writers on the history of science have argued that changes in the institutional location of science will be accompanied by several major changes in scientific attitudes and values. A sample of approximately 30 per cent of the working scientists in several disciplines was interviewed in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Those interviewed worked in government, industrial, and university laboratories. A number of indicators of scientific attitudes and values were examined."
"To develop the highly complex products required of industry today, it is necessary to provide the research and engineering personnel developing these products with an array of highly specialized supporting services. Since these supporting skills are not required by any one engineering group 100 per cent of the time, economics dictates that these services be centralized. Thus, a Technical Services Department is born. The supporting skills provided by such an organization may vary, for example, from the analytical ability of highly-specialized Ph.D.s, to the manipulative ability of highly trained tool and die makers. IBM has a particular need for such specialized services because of the number of engineering groups which it has working simultaneously on different projects. In this article, it is not possible to cover the develomment of Technical Services in all the IBM Laboratories. Therefore, the discussion is limited to the IBM General Products Division Development Laboratory at Endicott, N. Y. This is appropriate, as Endicott is typical of other IBM Commercial Laboratories."
"This is a report on the development of a systematic procedure for preparing specifications for electronic instrumentation or control systems. This procedure aids in the preparation of specifications which: 1) make it possible to find any particular specification requirement quickly, and 2) insure that no important requirement has been omitted. Details of this procedure and a discussion of advantages gained through its use are presented. Also discussed is a technique for specification review and revision that helps to improve the proficiency of engineers at specification writing."
"Two examples are presented of the kind of contribution industrial or production or methods engineers can make to new product development. The first is a 1.2 volt mercuric oxide battery. The second is a tantalum capacitor. Contributions to analyses of costs and tolerances are cited."
"A statistical technique is presented for estimating probable future manpower requirements in the face of uncertainty about the success of outstanding bids."
"A visual method is presented for providing an over-view of the symbolic program of the Diamond Ordnance Fuze Laboratories. The display indicates relative emphasis of effort at the various levels in the laboratories and permits comparison between fields and specialities."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The affiliate plan, established by the IRE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IRE, but who have an interest in the field of engineering management, to join PGEM. Research administrators and social scientists interested in the research process especially are welcomed as affiliates. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society affiliated with PGEM. Current affiliates are listed below. Affiliates will pay a smaller fee than the regular members of IRE-PGEM and will have all the privileges of PGEM except that of holding elective office. Affiliates will receive the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT. PGEM hopes that the affiliates will help accelerate the interdisciplinary exchange of information in this rapidly advancing area of research-on-research."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Measured in current dollars, total R and D expenditures have increased from slightly more than $5 billion in 1953-1954 to $12½ billion in 1959-1960. These figures indicate increasing effort, but also reflect changes in the purchasing power of the dollar. The OESS of NSF is now constructing a cost index to reflect trends in changing prices and costs. An index should take account of cost changes in an identical ``mix'' of R and D purchases. Other aspects that need to be taken into account are price changes for identical goods and services and selection of representative items for the index. An initial study has been undertaken in cooperation with the U. S. Department of the Army in preparing a cost index for Army R and D."
"The objective of the cost-of-research index proposed in this paper is to provide a measure of the relative cost of the technical man-years supported by the R & D funds expended yearly in the U. S., as an indicator of the relative effort-in contrast to dollars-that has been put forth in U. S. R & D. The technical-man-year cost used in this paper is derived by dividing the total annual cost of each particular R & D organization participating in this study by the number of scientific and technical personnel working in the organization. This index is based on 17 individual research organizations, ranging from the most sophisticated industry and foundation R & D enterprises to relatively small private and Government laboratories and R & D divisions."
"This paper deals with the development, installation and testing of a Dual Evaluation Method of performance rating as applied to the engineers and scientists engaged in research activities in a laboratory operated by an academic institution. To study the use of performance rating plans in representative organizations, a questionnaire was sent to 175 organizations through-out the country. Concurrently, a series of meetings was held within the Laboratory with research administrators, supervisors, and scientists; recommendations for further investigation and experimentation resulted. A committee of research personnel was set up to assist in the design of an evaluation program. It reviewed four types of plans: Factor-Type Plan, Narrative Plan by the Supervisor, Personal Review Form, and Coaching Plan. Suggestions of the committee provided the basis for developing a new plan. A method was established whereby the engineer rates himself on a factor-type form before the actual interview with his supervisor. This preview prepares him for the interview knowing by what factors he has been evaluated. Because of this, he is better prepared to discuss the rating with his supervisor. The new plan was designed with two distinct but related sections. The first, Job Performance Appraisal, was to be the evaluation of how well an individual was doing on his present job. Second, was the Academic Development Inventory which was to be a record of the contributions which lead to promotion in rank and the granting of tenure."
"Nearly 250 physical scientists at two different laboratories were asked to suggest every type of contribution that should be measured for individual researchers. A preliminary list of measures was compiled. Eight different sources were used to obtain data on the contributions of 166 scientists in one large laboratory, according to these measures; 52 scores were developed on the contributions of these people. Correlation analyses were run on relationships between the scores. A factor analysis yielded 15 relatively independent categories, into which the contribution scores were classified. These categories were arranged according to a science-oriented to organizationally-oriented continuum. The study was conducted in one large laboratory at a government basic research center. Included in the sample of scientists were physicists, mathematicians, electronic engineers, and chemists."
"One way of measuring an organization's health is to discover what its images are in the minds of the publics with which it is most concerned, particularly employees. This was the frame of reference for some recent attempts to measure organizational health at the U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station, China Lake, Calif. The organizational Self-Inventory was administered to approximately 500 scientists, engineers, administrators, clerical and crafts personnel in five of the Station's departments. The research instrument used to make the measurements was a simple questionnaire composed of three types of items: incomplete sentences; cartoon incomplete sentences, and semantic scales."
"In 1958, a program was started for the supervisors of the Flight Test Section to provide an environment where they could explore the many aspects of a business enterprise. The full intent and objectives of the program were discussed with the senior supervisors. The discussion group had no appointed chairman or specified ground rules. The starting point was a discussion of the job of the section toward development of an organization to do that job most effectively. Position descriptions were prepared, followed by development of objectives. After 15 months, the group examined the role of the manager and their own personal philosophies of management. The future course of the program is still under development."
"This paper describes the distribution of Canadian engineers and scientists in terms of field of specialization, work function performed, highest degree obtained, and year of graduation. The paper is in three sections: discussion of the source of the data; presentation of the data; summary and discussion."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The affiliate plan, established by the IRE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IRE, but who have an interest in the field of engineering management, to join PGEM. Research administrators and social scientists interested in the research process especially are welcomed as affiliates. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society affiliated with PGEM. Current affiliates are listed below. Affiliates will pay a smaller fee than the regular members of IRE-PGEM and will have all the privileges of PGEM except that of holding elective office. Affiliates will receive the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT. PGEM hopes that the affiliates will help accelerate the interdisciplinary exchange of information in this rapidly advancing area of research-on-research."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Jamming of voice communication systems is a very ungrateful task and ``brute force'' jammers have to be used, while other systems, such as radar, can be jammed effectively using low power but sophisticated jammers. Geographical situation is very much against the jammer, particularly in ground-based mobile communication systems. The propagation of ground wave is such that a rapid increase of jamming power is required, as the ratio of distances of the jammer to the desired transmitter increases. The jammer is never certain whether or not the communication network is jammed and is never actually able to jam the communications completely. It can only limit the operating range of the system. Different modulation systems are considered and the necessary power density for jamming of each system is discussed. It is concluded that effective jamming of FM systems and other systems with threshold systems is easier than that of AM and, particularly, the SSB systems. However, for nuisance jamming, the opposite is true. Finally, the jamming of the SSB systems is considered in more detail and it is proven that the so-called reduced-carrier SSB systems are not easier to jam than systems with a completely suppressed carrier."
"Each piece of military electronic equipment passes through various phases in its normal life cycle. These are: planning, design and development, pilot production, manufacture, transportation, storage, operation, and maintenance. Each of these stages is replete with opportunities for the introduction of unreliabilities. This paper points out the pitfalls which may be encountered and makes specific recommendations to avoid them, so that total potential reliability may be realized in the final equipment."
"The radiation emitted when a high-speed body reenters the atmosphere is an important source of information concerning the physical processes taking place. Missile firings may be utilized to obtain some of this information. For about two years the Army Ballistic Missile Agency has conducted a measurement program known as Project Gaslight which has utilized Jupiter firings and, to a limited extent, both Thor and Polaris firings also. An account is given of the instrumentation employed and of some of the results that have been obtained. These include radiometric data in several wavelength bands from the ultraviolet to the infrared, and spectra in the visible. Motion pictures provide a record of the spatial relationships of the re-entry bodies, and these results are interpreted in terms of the impulse causing the initial separation. In the case of the Jupiter missile, there are two separations resulting in three bodies, the thrust unit, the nose cone, and an intermediate section or instrument compartment. Selected frames of the motion picture records show these bodies and give a qualitative understanding of the relative radiation from each source, of the disintegration and burning up of the thrust unit and the instrument compartment, and of the markedly lower drag-to-weight ratio of the nose cone. Forward scattering, presumably by high cirrus clouds, is shown to increase considerably the size of the very bright images. Most of the measurements have been made from ships, although some instrumentation has been airborne and photographs have been made from a distant island."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents a brief biography of James M. Bridges. Mr. Bridges is a menmber of the American Ordnance Association and the Armed Forces Communications and Electroniics Association, and is Chairman of the Advisory Group on Reliabiilty of Electronic Equipment."
"In this paper an attempt is made to forecast the direction in which the radar state-of-the-art will aim. The paper will begin with a description of a few of the radars of World War II, to set the stage for a comparison and evaluation of the various techniques that have been added. Since World War II, various components and techniques developments have been designed for our more modern-day radar, and a tremendous increase has been realized in capability for handling smaller, faster and more distant targets. Particular emphasis is placed on the problems of high resolution, discrimination and pattern recognition. The effect of our entry into the space age on the design of radar equipments will be discussed. These new radars must cope with problems which are at least an order of magnitude greater than the air-breathing threat in al of its aspects. The conclusion made is that the phased-array type of radar offers the only long-range solution to the complex problems faced today by the radar engineer. Its combination of flexibility, limitless power, high-frequency capability, electronic scanning, etc., makes it the only logical choice for the future."
"Data obtained on high-power traveling-wave tubes at S and C band indicate performance suitable for the final amplifier in a wide bandwidth phase coherent radar transmitter. Static phase measurements demonstrate the capability of parallel operation of tubes and the feasibility of use in pulse compression systems. Gain and power output data show that for the most efficient operation a programmed drive is needed. Data taken at constant drive power displays a compressed gain variation and a somewhat lower output. An extrapolation of present data indicates the feasibility of obtaining 25- to 30-per cent bandwidth in high-power traveling-wave tubes with other improved characteristics."
"A practical AFC system for both X-band and Ku-band magnetron radar transmitters has been developed. This system meets the needs of three radar systems currently in production. Frequency stabilization is accomplished by electronically controlling the magnetron load impedance. Therefore, the magnetron ``pulling figure'' is put to use. The closed loop AFC system maintains frequency stability to better than ±2 Mc at Ku-band and ±1.5 Mc at X-band frequencies over wide environmental conditions. The system dynamically compensates for deviations in frequency due to temperature, vibration, shock, changes in duty cycle, drift with life, and poor voltage regulation. The response time of the AFC system is such that, starting at the limits of thle capture range, ``on frequency'' response is Obtained within the first five pulses of the magnetron. One of the radar systems requires a considerable delay between groups of pulses. For this radar, the AFC system provides a memory to hold the conditions for ``on frequency'' response during the delay periods. A qualitative analysis of the closed-loop system is made with reference to the Rieke Diagram. It is shown how a single magnetron has been used to meet two different sets of system performance requirements. System operation and hardware are discussed with reference to practical difficulties."
"This paper is a study of the ultimate attainable accuracy in the radar measurement of range, range rate, and range acceleration. It is assumed that these quantities are to be measured by a coherent radar with a large output signal-to-noise ratio. The approach is entirely theoretical, and the accuracy evaluated is the accuracy that would be attained with an ideal receiver which performs maximum-likelihood estimates of the unknown parameters. The transmitted waveformn is fixed and arbitrary, and the error variances and covariances are evaluated in detail in termns of the amplitude and frequency modulation of the transmitted wave. Specific results are also given for constant amplitude pulses carrying arbitrary combinations of linear and quadratic frequency modulation."
"This paper is intended to provide the systems engineer with a practical introduction to the use of solid-state maser amplifiers in radars. Various environmental problems involved in the successful application of masers are discussed. An elementary survey of reflection-cavity and traveling-wave masers, together with some experimental results are presented. Another section treats the problem of saturation in masers and discusses some of the methods available for protecting masers from the TR leak-through pulses in radar. Progress made in the development of open-and closed-cycle liquid helium cryogenic systems suitable for masers is described. The authors' personal evaluations of the state of the art of ruby masers and closed-cycle helium refrigerators are given in appendixes."
"Practical experience is now available with the Electron Beam Parametric Amplifier (EBPA) used as a low-noise preamplifier in radar systems. Principles of operation of the EBPA are briefly recapitulated. Among its desirable characteristics are unilateral behavior, high stable gain and a double-channel noise figure (NF) of 1 db or less; its bandwidth, input and output impedance remain constant as gain is adjusted. An L-band amplifier is described in detail. A discussion of various ways of handling the idler channel follows. The technique of in-pass-band pumping achieves an effective NF of 2.5 db or better in radars with conventional detection. Complications arise with Moving Target Indicator (MTI) systems; remedies are described. The paper reports on field tests in which these techniques were used, including a few flight tests. The results show substantial improvements in sensitivity and range. They also spotlight the ability of the EBPA to tolerate high overload and to act somewhat like a TR switch."
"The basic characteristics of parametric amplifiers are reviewed briefly, with particular emphasis on the limitations on low-noise performance resulting from diode losses. Normalized curves showing the minimum excess temperature of a parametric amplifier for various spectrum arrangements are presented, where the normalizing factor is the degenerate-mode gain cutoff frequency. Experimental evidence consisting of noise figure measurements on an X-band amplifier is used to relate this cutoff frequency to an easily and commonly measured diode quality factor. Design considerations for a hypothetical L-band parametric amplifier are discussed to illustrate the implications of the noise analysis."
"The general characteristics of radars using large planar steerable array antennas are discussed. The need for an amplifier for each element is shown, and the tolerances and stability requirements for the amplifiers are discussed. Array geometry, pattern formation and gain, mutual coupling, and beam-steering techniques are summarized. Element minimization and signal-processing techniques are analyzed."
"This paper treats the antenna as an information processing device, and applies the concepts of modern information theory to the design of antennas and to the optimization of their performance. The principal optimization criterion employed is maximization of information or data rate. The general procedure is to treat the antenna as a spatial frequency filter which is being optimized subject to a given set of control inputs. Given these specifications, the information rate is maximized with respect to the antenna system parameters subject to the physical constraints of the system. It is shown that in a general antenna system where noise is introduced in both the object and image space, the optimum antenna aperture distribution is uniform. When the image, or receiver, noise is zero, the useful output information content and rate are independent of the aperture distribution. An equation relating the signal and noise spectra and the aperture distribution is derived which shows the way in which the signal should be coded so as to maximize the information content. Processing is discussed generally, and a specific nonlinear processing scheme is analyzed. The general conclusion is that nonlinear processing degrades the useful information rate when the SNR is low whereas it may improve the rate at high SNRs. Finally, a number of specific military and space applications of information processing antennas are considered."
"One of the major recent advances in radar technology has been in the processing of the received signals. Several techniques have been developed to enhance the desired signals (aircraft) relative to ground clutter, sea clutter, rain, interference from other radars, and active countermeasures. The following techniques are discussed: MTI, Sweep Integration, and Blanking and Switching. A signal processing system utilizing these techniques is described."
"For good radar system performance, a transmitted waveform is desired that has 1) wide bandwidth for high range resolution and 2) long duration for high velocity resolution and high transmitted energy. In a pulse-compression system, a long pulse of duration T and bandwidth F (product of T and F greater than one) is transmitted. Received echoes are processed to obtain short pulses of duration 1/F. Compression ratio (the ratio of long-pulse duration to short-pulse duration) is thus the product T·F, and is a measure of the combined range and velocity resolution. Pulse compression occurs if a waveform with a nonlinear phase spectrum is passed through a filter ``phase matched'' to the waveform. Phase matched means that the nonlinear part of the network phase response is the negative of the nonlinear part of the waveform phase spectrum. The waveform with rectangular amplitude spectrum and parabolic phase spectrum is ideally suited for pulse compression. Bandwidth and duration can be independently specified, duration-bandwidth products of 100 or more are presently feasible, and the waveform remains phase matched to one filter over a wide range of Doppler frequency shifts."
"Doppler radars are employed for the detection of moving targets whose radar echo area is much smaller than the ground clutter return. Moving targets are separated from clutter on a frequency basis by utilizing the Doppler phenomenon. Continuous-wave Doppler radars have a practical maximum-range capability because the leak-through between the transmitter and receiver causes receiver saturation. This limitation is overcome in pulse-Doppler radar by time-sharing the transmitting and receiving cycles. This paper discusses a typical pulse-Doppler radar and the basic design considerations for the selection of the pulse-recurrence fre-frequency, elimination of clutter, range determination, and oscillator stability requirements."
"An account is given of the development of the AN/UPD-1 (XPM-1) system. This airborne mapping radar, by synthesizing an extremely long antenna which expands in length in direct proportion to radar range, provides a linear resolution in the azimuth direction that is constant for all radar ranges."
"A brief introduction to coherent radar applications is given by discussing some basic pulse and CW systems. Comments on the historical development of these systems are followed by a general discussion of coherent radar parameter variations as they relate to the accuracy, resolution and ambiguity of target position or speed measurements."
"A method is described for measuring the angular rate of a radar target by measuring the rate of change of the phase difference between radar echoes received at two widely separated antennas. It is shown that it is possible by the interferometer technique employed to obtain a direct measure of target angular velocity in much the same manner that Doppler measurements yield radial velocities. Three main questions existed concerning the basic feasibility of such an approach: 1) Will the effect of the fluctuations in time of arrival arising from inhomogeneities in the atmosphere render the data incapable of interpretation? 2) Is sufficient phase stability obtainable in the equipment and in the transmission paths between widely separated sites to permit phase measurements of the required accuracies? 3) Will serious degradations in the data occur as a result of shifts in the phase center of irregularly shaped tumbling objects?"
"The definition and basic equations defining the performance of three-dimensional radar systems are given. In particular the parameters defining data rate for different classes of three-dimensional radar are analyzed. Three-dimensional radars are divided into three classes as follows: single beam-rapid scan systems; multiple beam-scanning systems; and multiple beam-non-scanning systems. Each of these types is defined and compared in terms of important characteristics. It is shown that new developments in electronic scanning and multiple beam antennas have made feasible many of these new three-dimensional radar systems. A number of the more important antennas and their method of utilization in the three-dimensional radar equipment are described. Examples are given of two types of three-dimensional radar that are typical of two classes of this equipment. Finally, some of the more important applications for modern three-dimensional radar equipment are noted."
"A procedure for radar range calculation is described, reflecting current knowledge of the effects of external natural noise sources, atmospheric-absorption losses, and the refractive effect of the normal atmosphere. The range equation is presented in terms of explicitly defined and readily evaluated quantities. Curves and equations are given for evaluating the quantities that are not ordinarily known by direct measurement. Some conventions are proposed for use in general radar range calculation, including an antenna-noise-temperature curve, minimum-detectable signal-to-noise ratio (``visibility factor'') curves, and a formula for the reflection coefficient of a rough sea. A noise-temperature table and a work-sheet for range calculation are included in the Appendix."
"Coverage patterns for trans-horizon radar systems can be predicted both analytically and empirically. Empirical methods are preferred because of their rapid application and lack of need for elaborate computing facilities. In addition, the coverage techniques introduced may be used eventually to determine the slant range, absorption, and effective noise temperature of trans-horizon radar systems. Some of the fundamental considerations which influence the prediction of coverage, such as geographical location, and the diurnal, seasonal, and anomalous behavior of the ionosphere, are discussed qualitatively. In spite of these factors, however, it is shown how HF radar systems overcome the line-of-sight limitations imposed upon conventional microwave radar systems and theoretically permit up to four or five times the range for a single hop."
"One of the limitations of FM/CW radars, often quoted in the literature, is in their inability to handle multiple targets. Several variations of a comparatively simple Range/Range Rate Display, capable of handling and resolving a large number of targets when used in conjunction with an FM/CW radar, are presented. The FM/CW plane and means for resolving target ambiguities are discussed, as well as system features, which, when used in conjunction with the displays, enable multiple target range and velocity information to be obtained and utilized simultaneously."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents a brief biography of W. L. Doxey."
"Presents a brief biography of J. Earl Thomas, Jr. Dr. Thomas is a Fellow of the American Physical Society, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Tau Beta Pi, and Sigma Xi."
"In order to exploit the technological promises of microelectronics, electronic system techniques must be developed so that defective portions of a system can be tolerated without system malfunction. Such defects might be introduced during manufacture (at birth), or cause errors during operation (life). The number of permanent failures which could be endured by a system before it fails completely will determine its lifetime (death). In this paper, an adaptive vote-taker is proposed which compares the outputs of paralleled (redundant) system parts in a binary system and determines the most probable answer based on past performance of the separate parts. Initially, the vote-taker assigns equal significance to each redundant part, and (in a binary system) requires that a simple majority of the parts be correct. With experience, the vote-taker continually reduces the weight (significance) of the outputs from those parts that make mistakes, thereby gradually eliminating the defective parts. Thus the vote-takers (which also may be paralleled if they are unreliable) act as automatic repairmen which delete defective parts of a system. System dependability and life expectancy can be made to exceed the dependability and average life expectancy of the component parts. The heart of an adaptive vote-taker is an element providing variable gain with memory. A variable resistor with memory (memistor), which uses electrochemical deposition or removal of copper to achieve the variable memory, has been successfully applied to this function."
"Circuit design predicated solely upon the premise of providing circuits with greater and greater immunity against component tolerances at some point results in an increase in catastrophic failure rates. Thus, circuits which are overdesigned to provide maximum protection against drift failures may actually contribute to a lower system reliability than do those circuits which are designed to operate with tighter component tolerances. These considerations lead to the conclusion that as systems grow in complexity or as reliability requirements are significantly increased for current equipment, a point is reached where further improvement in design procedures will not necessarily lead to further increases in system reliability. A way out of this dilemma appears to be the introduction of some form of redundancy on the component or circuit level in order to overcome the effects of the inevitable occurrence of catastrophic component failures. This paper discusses the application of redundancy techniques, of a nonadaptive and passive nature, to electronic circuits and systems."
"The interrelationship of power dissipation, gain, stability, terminal impedance values, dynamic range and efficiency is investigated for small-signal amplifiers in the middle range of frequencies. Utilizing a novel circuit-design theory which treats a transistor along with its biasing resistors as a single entity, amplifier designs are derived which combine optimum ac performance and minimum dc power dissipation. The product of ac power gain and dc-to-ac efficiency is found to be a useful figure of merit for microelectronic transmission circuits."
"This paper considers the thermal problems associated with the design of high component-density encapsulated circuits, constructed with small solid-state components. The thermal resistance to the dissipation of component-generated heat is shown to consist of that of the encapsulating medium, plus that of the external circuit cooling process. Because the external cooling becomes more difficult as the size of an encapsulated circuit is reduced, a method of constructing such circuits is proposed which minimizes the thermal resistance due to the encapsulating medium. This construction makes a large fraction of the allowable component temperature rise available for use in the external heat dissipation process by providing high thermal conductance paths for the transfer of heat from the surfaces of the components to one surface of the circuit structure. Analytical models are developed for the most important heat transfer processes in the proposed circuit structure. The equations based on these models are arranged in a form suitable for design use, and example designs are presented."
"The necessity to hybridize newer microcircuitry techniques with existing design capabilities to achieve efficient equipment designs is established. An analysis is presented of the net size and weight advantages calculated for several components of a typical weapons system, as first the micromodule and then, progressively, thin-film and solid-circuit techniques are integrated into the system design. The diminishing returns on the introduction of microcircuitry into many areas of the system emphasize the need for high efficiency in the integration of newer techniques. The potential capabilities of an advanced type micromodule, which still retains the standardized microelement dimensions and assembly procedures, are explored. A further advanced modular interconnection of microcircuitry wafers into a projected microassembly is then described. 0.002 × 0.010-inch copper ribbon conductors are welded to the metallized edge terminations of stacked substrate wafers by an electron beam technique. Interconnection requirement is 1600 terminations per square inch. Sample illustrated showed 2000 terminations per square inch, or 80,000 terminations per cubic inch. Termination capability is increased three times, and effective useful module volume is doubled compared to existing micromodule. Details of materials and processes for the microconnections are described together with a summary of the statistical reliability evaluation. The latter confirms the high reliability objective for this connection."
"A variety of approaches to microminiaturization is now being widely explored by electronic systems designers. Among the approaches taken, continued reliance is being placed upon discrete active components that can be used in module, welded, thin-film, or hybrid types of microcircuits. By the use of discrete elements, maximum circuit flexibility is retained, tight component tolerances are possible, and production shrinkage of complete circuit functions is minimized, as compared with the solid-state circuit approach. Moreover, ``throw-away'' maintenance costs are low. A series of microminiature silicon diodes and transistors has been developed and produced for use in applications where stringent size and weight limitations, and high reliability requirements, exist. Through the use of extremely simple mechanical constructions, surface passivation techniques and impervious glass-like coatings, low cost can be achieved in mass production without sacrificing reliability. By use of appropriate fabrication processes, alloyed or diffused diodes and transistors can be formed in mesa or planar configurations, and an extension to epitaxial structures can be employed. Electrical characteristics are comparable to, or better than those of existing conventional types of diodes and transistors. At 25°C, failure rates below 0.01 per cent per thousand hours have been substantiated. This paper begins with an outline of the theory underlying surface protection techniques used, describes the construction and characteristics of several devices in the family, and presents test information proving a high degree of reliability."
"Filter circuits using wire-wound inductors are hard to microminiaturize because coils are rather bulky. This paper discusses different inductive semiconductor devices which may replace coils where space is a problem. Forward-biased diodes, properly designed, behave like very lossy inductances. Combining them with negative-resistance devices increases the Q but creates serious temperature and stability problems. Relatively temperature-stable inductance elements are possible by combination of a phase shift network with a transistor. The principle, well-known in tube circuitry, gives high inductances with only a moderate Q because of the low input impedance of the transistor. Promising results have been demonstrated with a transistor operating in the a cutoff region. The device is dc stable, and has a moderate temperature sensitivity which might be partly compensated if necessary. Avalanche multiplication is used to reduce the damping resistance of the inductive transistor. Simple band-pass amplifier circuits are presented in the last section to demonstrate how to use the inductive transistor in practice."
"Plastic encapsulation of nonlinear ferrites, and the effect of this encapsulation on the magnetic characteristics of the ferrites, is discussed in this paper. This technique provides greater immunity to shock and vibration damage than conventional core frames and provides bit densities in excess of one million per cubic foot. Chemical deposition and photographic techniques may be used to form a portion of the wiring matrix. Through-hole plating of ferrites having a 15-mil diameter hole is possible. Small-evaluation memories have been fabricated, using both toroids and transfluxors. Temperature tests on these memories show that encapsulation causes a slight increase in switching speed and a small decrease on output for a given drive current. These changes remain almost constant over the temperature range. No significant changes have been noted in the noise output. Techniques outlined are presently being used in the fabrication of microminiaturized, nondestructive memories for missile and satellite application."
"The MIST module is a proposed building block for electronic telemetry systems for use with weather balloons, providing a minimum hazard to fast-flying aircraft. This electronic telemetry system may be spread in two dimensions while having a minimum build-up or structure in the third dimension. Minimum STructure modules (MIST modules) are a proposed answer to such a requirement. MIST modules have been built on an experimental basis and the brief experimental experience with working modules indicates that they will meet the requirements and provide electronic systems which can be safely floated in the air lanes."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents a brief biography of A.G. Waggoner. Mr. Waggoner is a member of the American Society for Metals, the Americani Welding Society, the American Insitute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, and the American Rocket Society. Among the various awards he has won for outstanding performance and leadership are the William A. Jump Memorial Award and the Department of Defense Distinguished Civilian Service Award."
"An orderly plan has been prepared covering the implementation of UHF radio telemetry on the country's missile ranges. Requirements have been drafted for UHF systems to be developed by 1970. Programs have been launched to transfer the requirements into equipment. Preliminary standards have been established. Today, UHF telemetry links are utilized for a limited number of projects. Currently a high-performance UHF link is expensive, large in size, and complex. One must use a transmitter that may weigh 12 to 50 pounds, that has a volume of 250 to 1000 cu in, and that has an over-all power efficiency of 2 per cent for an 8 to 10 watt output. Its cost may be 10 times that of a 5-watt VHF transmitter. Automatic tracking systems are required but are not generally available. Special preamplifier-converters are also necessary. Because of these factors, UHF telemetry is used, at present, only by a few missile projects. Obviously, we must continue to advance the state-of-the-art until a spectrum of microwave devices is available to fill the needs of the majority of telemetry users. Economy, as well as technical capability and flexibility, will be the mark of these developments."
"The operation of missile flight-test instrumentation systems at minimum bandwidth is an important economic consideration. Design of instrumentation systems may become difficult or impossible unless intelligently chosen bandwidth parameters are specified. Since nearly all missile flight-test instrumentation systems operate as sampled data devices, the bandwidth parameter shows up as a sampling rate requirement. It can be shown, under fairly general conditions involving no highly restrictive assumptions, that the rate of information acquisition of a sampled-data instrumentation system, when considered as a function of sampling interval, has a maximum. This can be readily appreciated intuitively. For a position-measurement system, for instance, if the sampling interval is made very short, the amount of information gained with each subsequent sample is very small because of the large amount of prior information about the position of the object being measured. No information would be gained if a sample were taken an infinitesimally small time after an initial measurement. Also, a very long time interval between samples would permit considerable growth of ignorance about the object's position, but the logarithmic information-gain function would grow slowly compared with t-1; so the information rate for long sampling intervals would also be a small number. Somewhere between these two cases lies at least one maximum in information rate. The selection of a sampling rate corresponding to the maximum information rate is recommended as a good choice for many types of missile test instrumentation systems."
"A system for determining atmospheric temperature structure by using an electromagnetic radiometer probe is described. The relationship between the electromagnetic sensor reading and atmospheric conditions is developed for both the microwave and infrared sensor utilizing a unified approach for the two cases. It is shown that, with the assumption of horizontal homogeneity, several alternate procedures for inversion of sensor readings to yield the spacial-temperature field are possible. One of these procedures which was used to invert theoretical radiometer readings from an assumed atmospheric structure is described in detail. The results of the inversion which was accomplished with the aid of a UNIVAC 1105 computer are included."
"The theory of optimum linear prediction and filtering is applied to determine the optimum system response of pulse (noncoherent) and pulse-Doppler (coherent) radars for target motions consisting of 1) random steps of velocity, and 2) random steps of acceleration. The rms error in velocity data is calculated for each system, and the improvement factor of pulse-Doppler over pulse radar is obtained. The improvement factor is considerably greater in the case of random steps of acceleration, demonstrating that the relative accuracy of the two systems depends on the nature of the target motion, as well as on the radar parameters. Although the errors in both systems are reduced somewhat by allowing large delays in output data, the relative accuracy is found to be unchanged."
"The background for the present safety system is outlined in a review of the original Air Force plans and installations and subsequent Navy-Air Force agreements for the coordinated use of the Pacific Missile Range, considering the expanded scope of operations in the area. A description is given of the ground stations in the unified acquisition and tracking system for range safety as well as the auxiliary equipment for missile monitoring during early parts of its flight trajectory. A review is made of the associated data transmission and processing equipment including operational direct voice circuits. The corresponding safety equipment in different types of missiles is discussed in connection with both command, tracking, and telemetry functions. The implementation of the flight termination command requirements is outlined in the main transmitting station and missile checkout apparatus. The support areas of status reporting, telemetry, timing, and communications are discussed in detail. Finally, new requirements for precise downrange impact prediction and vehicle thrust termination are described."
"The Digital Data Processor implements a new data acquisition concept which permits self-adaptive, accurate, real-time digitizing and editing of a large number of high-frequency data channels. The system was designed to meet the constantly changing requirements of a high-energy propulsion engine research and development program. The centrally located processor basically samples 127 channels of analog information from any one of several 1-million-pound static test stands, and produces a digital tape. Before a new test the sampling scheme of the data channels is quickly set for any desired selection sequence that will best fit the new test situation. During a test the data processor can monitor preselected channels. Based on their performance, sampling priority can be shifted from one channel group to another, thus automatically optimizing the data acquisition process. Immediate digitizing of the multiplexed analog data preserves its original accuracy. Record lengths on the output tape are programmable, and the tape format is compatible with the IBM 7090 computer."
"Classical methods for determining satellite orbits were limited to the use of angle information and only rough estimates of distance. With radar, it is possible to obtain good range information, but poor angular accuracy. Three approximate schemes are described which are ideally suited to track-while-scan radar observations. The accuracy obtained with these techniques has been demonstrated by the numerical evaluation of some typical cases."
"A technique for accumulating airborne visible and infrared spectroradiometric data from missile plumes and re-entry objects establishes the requirements for a precision tracking front surface mirror. The processing of target radiation, reflected by the tracking mirror into an infrared tracker telescope, to derive target coordinate information, is described. The derivation of transformed target error signals to command the motion of the hydraulically driven tracking mirror is outlined. A description of the servo-electronics system, with selected circuitry, is given. The dynamic characteristics of the system, as determined from preliminary field tests, indicate that the system has a tracking rate capability of 10°/sec with an accuracy better than 60 seconds of arc. The detection sensitivity of the infrared tracker telescope is 1.6×10-10w/cm2 in the 2-to 6-α region, and is sufficient to provide 10-miile tracking ranges against a jet target in a sunlit cumulus cloud background. In a typical installation, aiming of the tracking mirror is provided by a 7×35, 10° field of view sighting telescope which is automatically slaved by the tracking mirror when acquisition and target tracking occurs, thereby providing continuous observation of the target. As an alternative to visual aiming, an automatic search program is generated by an accurate electro-mechanical programmer, which is described. Target acquisition, in an automatic mode of operation, is accomplished through the use of a simple logic circuit which provides electronic background discrimination by virtue of signal pulse width."
"One of the more difficult requirements to meet in the design of radars is that of accurate angular measurement. In tracking radars the azimuth and elevation of a target can be measured to a high degree of accuracy by a nulling method. Two of the most practical methods for obtaining angular accuracy in search radars are discussed in this paper. The first method is an interferometer technique employing either two receiving antennas for each dimension of angular measurement with two frequencies of transmission for the resolution of ambiguities, or three receiving antennas positioned relative to one another so that the equivalent effect is achieved with only one-frequency transmission. The second method is a combination amplitude comparison and interferometer technique in which the ambiguities are resolved by the amplitude comparison system. An analysis of each of these systems has been made using a statistical approach in which equations are developed relating the probability of error for a specified angular accuracy to SNR power in the receiver. Curves are presented which show this relationship for a 100 to 1 beam-splitting ratio."
"The factors affecting the design of a gated Automatic TV Tracking System are discussed, and a system mechanization to achieve the design objectives is outlined. Only the composite video of a closed-circuit TV system is required as an input. A study of the dynamic performance of typical targets indicates that the unpredictable target motion in a frame period of 1/30 sec must be an extremely small fraction of the field of view required for initial target acquisition. This permits the use of a small tracking gate in the larger acquisition field, since the target coordinates of the previous frame may be used to position the gate. This small gate permits a signal-to-noise enhancement and effectively rejects extraneous targets outside the tracking gate. The tracking is effected by subdividing the tracking area into equal early and late video gates in each coordinate. The differential video between these gates is applied to an electronic integrator in such a manner that the integrator output voltage, which is also the reference for the generation of the early-to-late gate transition, changes to place this gate transition on the target. The integrator voltages are, therefore, a measure of the target coordinates in the TV field. The operation of an experimental system fabricated to determine the feasibility of applying this technique to a range-instrumentation system has produced tracking accuracies of better than 0.05 milliradian in an acquisition field of 10×10 milliradians. Current developments and additional applications of the technique are discussed briefly."
"An account of instrumentation radar development is given, and advantages and disadvantages of radar as compared to other instruments are discussed. Capabilities of present monopulse radars are described, based upon actual test data from the AN/FPS-16. This radar has a range of 200 miles on echo targets of one-square-meter cross section and can track to an accuracy of 0.1 mil in angle and 5 yards in range. The next generation in instrumentation radar is represented by the AN/FPQ-6, now under development, which will extend accurate tracking to ranges in excess of 500 miles on echo targets and will track existing beacons beyond the moon. An important capability not yet exploited in pulsed-instrumentation radars is the coherent pulsed-Doppler velocity-measurement channel which will equal the accuracy of microwave CW systems in radial-velocity data. Provisions for adding this fourth tracking channel to both AN/FPS-16 and AN/FPQ-6 are being made, and suitable beacons are being designed. An important advantage of pulsed-Doppler radar is the ability to share a single coherent beacon in multiple-station operation, providing highly accurate, three-coordinate velocity and position data without special interstation communication links over ground paths. Beyond the immediate developments of the AN/FPQ-6, there are three major areas of improvement which will greatly extend radar performance. Solid-state maser preamplifiers will increase sensitivity of microwave radars by a factor of nearly one hundred within one or two years. Microwave antennas are already under construction in the 100-and 300-ft diameter class."
"The results of research on optical turbulence at White Sands Missile Range are presented. It has been shown that elevating camera stations 33 feet above ground level can yield nearly a threefold increase in optical resolution during periods of atmospheric turbulence. Early research postulated the existence of thermal-induced air lenses as the cause of optical-turbulence effects. Recent research has shown that air lenses can account for most of the observed effects. The ``prism'' concept of turbulence appears to be unnecessary for explaining turbulence-induced image motion. The dependence of the optical effects of turbulence upon exposure time and aperture size are discussed qualitatively. The source of optical turbulence in the atmosphere and a method of measuring the turbulence-generating potential of various terrain surfaces are described on the basis of micrometeorology. This research has been limited to an investigation of optical turbulence during the period from sunrise to sunset. However, many of the results apply to the nighttime turbulence encountered by astronomers."
"At the Naval Ordnance Test Station sea ranges at San Clemente Island, closed-circuit television is used both over and under water for certain phases of underwater weapons testing. The functions of this instrumentation are to provide: real-time data, engineering surveillance, monitoring, underwater launcher positioning, range surveillance, time-event data, trajectory data, and to assist in underwater search and recovery. At present, 17 closed-circuit systems are in use above and below the surface of the ocean, and more systems are being built. The new systems include an Image Orthicon camera for underwater search and a Vidicon-type system for operations at a depth of 6000 feet."
"An investigation is conducted of the programming of search by discrete data systems over a space volume. The distribution of search effort which leads to the greatest attainable information rate on a contact, or probability of its retention by maximizing the probability of a positive interrogation within some designated time interval is determined. An estimate of p, the relative frequency of positive interrogations of an individual contact, is utilized as a basis for adjustment of the sampling rate in accordance with results of the search program optimization study. It is shown that in the case of Rayleigh signal sources, the rate of convergence to a stable estimate of p is greatest if a search program characterized by a rapid sampling rate and a consequent low probability of detection on the individual trial is employed. If, following a sequence of observations, the statistical distribution of the position of the contact may be ascertained with some confidence, a suitably restricted space volume may be used in the allocation of search. It is shown that, if an extremal exists, the uniformly interrogated search field, which is optimal in the sense that the product of the containment and detection probabilities is greatest, is defined by an equiprobability density of location contour."
"Several tests have provided data sufficient to demonstrate the feasibility of tracking missiles with a CW passive Doppler system. Initial experiments utilized a local television station as a target illuminator; later tests examined the capability of such a system as a terminal trajectory measuring device. These latter tests showed that the system could be designed to have a multiple-target capability. An interim high-power system is being installed to determine if the techniques established for a low-power system can be extended to provide reliable coverage of White Sands Missile Range (WSMR). Some improvement of these techniques is anticipated, and, in addition, certain tests will employ spaced receivers operated as radio interferometers."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The merits of phase-coherent communications are widely recognized for both discrete and continuous modulation systems [1]-[3]. The relative performances of phase-coherent and noncoherent transmission of binary data in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise have been analyzed and compared [1] and [2]. This paper considers the result of encoding independent equiprobable binary words or sequences of independent binary digits into sets of binary code words. These are transmitted over a channel perturbed by additive white Gaussian noise and detected by correlating them with their stored or locally generated replicas at the receiver. The word error probabilities and bit error probabilities for low cross-correlation codes are determined as a function of the ratio (received signal energy)/bit/(noise power)/(unit bandwidth) The received information rate and the potential channel capacity are also computed. It is shown that in the limit as the code word length and the bandwidth approach infinity, the received information rate approaches the channel capacity for only one value of the above ratio."
"A data-transmission system has been developed which links four distant receiving sites of the U.S. Navy Space Surveillance system to a data-reduction center located at Dahlgren, Va. The receiving sites form a fence located on a great circle route across the southern United States from Georgia to California. Each receiver site is coupled to the data center by a commercial, voice-quality, duplex (two-way) telephone line. Standard FM telemetry techniques are used to transmit eight channels of analog data on each telephone line. These data are transmitted on eight discrete frequency-modulated carriers in a frequency band from 270 cps through 2455 cps. In addition to these FM data carriers, unmodulated tones are used for monitoring, compensation, and command functions. The data from each receiver site are permanently stored on paper recordings at the data-reduction center, so that this information can be assimilated at one location on a real-time basis. These data are used to compute the orbital parameters of satellites detected by the Space Surveillance system. The data-transmission system has been in operation for a year on a 24-hour basis with negligible down time. Off-line calibration techniques have been employed so that errors introduced into the data by the transmission system can be held to 2 per cent without interfering with the detection capabilities of the surveillance system. Tests indicate that the number of channels can be increased from 8 to 24 per telephone line by the use of crystal-controlled oscillators and crystal filters."
"The Jet Propulsion Laboratory of the California Institute of Technology was responsible for the West Coast Transmit/Receiver Station which was used in Project Echo for communicating with the East Coast Station of the Bell Telephone Laboratories utilizing the radio reflection properties of the satellite balloon. This report describes the work performed by JPL and presents some of the results of the Echo experiment."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A brief biography of Robert Werner is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Several convenient sources of radio noise exist in the heavens. It is possible to utilize these sources for accurate measurements of receiver noise figure, provided that a suitable high-gain antenna is available. The method for making such a measurement is described herein."
"Many satellite and spacecraft telemetry systems require that measurements be time-shared at relatively low rates (less than one sample per second) and that several rates be available in order to minimize redundant sampling. This paper discusses a multiplexing system designed specifically for low-speed operation and multiple-rate flexibility so as to gain advantage in other critical areas of performance. A unique synthesis of the basic circuit provides for the time-multplexing of n measurements with n-1 magnetic latching relays. Assuming an external two-phase clocking source, no other components, active of passive, are required in the circuit. Other advantages of the circuit are: 1) low average power consumption, 2) no additional monitoring or reset circuitry required to insure proper operation at turn-on or after momentary power failure, and 3) the virtual impossibility of switching more than a single measurement to the common output line, even in the case of component or wiring failure."
"Relationships for rms angular errors are developed for certain common active space probe and satellite angle-tracking systems. The only source of error considered is the thermal and shot noise of the receiver, bandlimited by the tracking servo noise bandwidth. If additional smoothing after angular readout is performed, only the special case of many samples averaged over a time long compared to the reciprocal servo noise bandwidth is considered. These thermal-noise errors are by no means the usual practical accuracy limitations of an angle-tracking system. They do, however, set bounds on minimal signal strength allowable for the desired tracking accuracy. The received signals were assumed to be sinusoidal of constant peak amplitude with the information, if any, contained in phase or frequency modulation. This is the most common signal in space probe or satellite tracking."
"The relation between transmitter bandwidth, information gathering rate, and communication system cost is discussed for a simple model of a satellite-ground system, in terms of basic power, weight and cost parameters."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes a method for quickly and quite accurately estimating the time that the moon is in common view of two stations on earth during the lunar day. A mathematical derivation tion and a detailed description of the method are given, together with a nomogram which simplifies the calculation. A sample problem is solved and a short table of time availability for several links of interest is included."
"This paper presents a general discussion of phase-locked-loop thresholds and tracking ranges. A typical phase-locked loop and its linear equivalent are introduced, and there is a brief discussion of application of the root locus method and the Bode amplitude plot to this circuit. Calculation of the maximum allowable deviation is considered for both phase and frequency modulation (sinusoidal). The SNR threshold is a function of tracking and modulation, and may vary considerably. Threshold behavior-with and without limiting-is discussed, and methods are presented for estimating the threshold in each case. Calculating the tracking range and variation of the tracking range with threshold variation are also discussed. Since an increase in tracking range and a decrease in threshold are obvious design objectives, procedures are given for achieving these goals. After a description of the effects of interference on tracking and the threshold, there is a brief report of a phase-locked-loop intelligibility study conducted by Philco Western Development Laboratories. Appendixes I-IV consider: 1) a phase-locked loop containing an IF amplifier, 2) designing a loop to track Doppler shift only, and 3) improving the SNR by increasing deviation."
"With the development of low-noise amplifiers, the noise contribution of the antenna has become a limiting factor on system performance in many applications. This paper discusses the calculation of the equivalent noise temperature contribution of parabolic reflector antennas using their radiation characteristics and environment. As an example, the equivalent noise temperature of an 85-foot reflector at 2 kMc is estimated as a function of orientation for two different primary illuminations. The relative contributions of the mainlobe, sidelobes and backlobes to the total antenna noise temperature is determined in each case to show the effect of antenna radiation characteristics on noise temperature. A functional relationship between the primary illumination of a parabolic reflector antenna and the system SNR is then derived from which the edge illumination producing the maximum SNR can be specified for a given family of primary illuminations."
"This paper derives relationships which express the contribution of ground-receiver noise and round-trip transit time to the errors in two-way radio Doppler measurements. Only one method of Doppler measurement is considered. This is the method of counting the number of cycles in a given time interval. From this measurement the signal frequency may then be determined. In usual tracking systems this frequency measurement is further utilized to determine the range-rate of the vehicle with respect to the tracking station. The power-spectral densities of additive-receiver noise and oscillator-frequency noise are assumed white. This situation prevails when the random disturbances are thermal in origin. This is a tractable assumption when one seeks fundamental accuracy limitations for Doppler measurement. The results of this paper should be useful to those concerned with radio tracking and, in particular, tracking of space probes."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Analysis of telemetered vibration data received from Transit-Courier launchings, using Able-Star space vehicle equipment, indicates three major sources of vibration. These are missile engine acoustic noise at liftoff, aerodynamic effects as the missile reaches Mach 1, and separation shock when the second-stage vehicle is launched. These measurements were taken at the Able-Star instrument platform; thus very little vibration if any was induced by turbopumps, alternators, or snap-operating valves. Vibration decreases to extremely low levels between the three periods of major excitation; therefore, transmission of vibration directly from the rocket engine through the missile structure has negligible effect on space vehicle equipment. Data obtained are useful in establishing equipment environmental test criteria. Specifications requiring sinusoidal combined with random vibration are indicated by some functions and shaped random, emphasizing certain frequency regions, are suggested for other functions."
"Attention is directed to a previously unrecognized phenomenon, plasma-enhanced breakdown of ballistic missile antennas. Plasma-enhanced antenna breakdown is a general phenomenon, and has been observed during flight tests of a variety of ballistic missiles. Examples chosen from telemetry signal-strength records of recent ballistic missile flights are presented. The need for the consideration of this effect in the design of the staging sequence of ballistic missiles is pointed to."
"This paper describes the ATHESA (Automatic THree-dimensional Electronic Scanned Array) technique for achieving very high antenna gain for deep-space communication systems. Phase coherence over a band of frequencies is established on reception automatically and continuously for either stationary or moving targets by phase-locking the signals from antenna elements separated by many wavelengths to a reference antenna element."
"This paper describes a new class of millivolt-controlled subcarrier oscillators developed especially for operation in the rugged environments of orbital programs. The oscillators cover all the standard IRIG channels. The full IRIG signal-frequency response is achieved at a modulation index equal to five. A less-than-unity-gain, long-tailed pair, silicon-transistor, dc amplifier and a greater-than-unity-gain RC network are combined to form a sine-wave oscillator. The center frequency is deviated ± 15 per cent by a ± 10 millivolt control signal. Excellent linearity characteristics are achieved. A unique feature of the circuit is the inherent deviation limiting. Inductors are avoided in the oscillator design. The passive RC network synthesis procedure is developed to realize 1) a voltage gain greater than unity, 2) the proper percentage of deviation with excellent linearity characteristics, and 3) inherent deviation limiting to contain the FM signal spectra within their assigned channels. The center frequency is deviated by controlling the relative gain of the long-tailed pair type of differential dc amplifier. A pure sine wave is generated without additional filtering. The balanced nature of the circuit yields excellent center frequency stability from 0°C to + 85°C. Center frequency time drift provides an improvement of at least one order of magnitude over present state-of-the-art millivolt-controlled oscillators. Measured data is presented to support the procedures used in the design. The oscillator and associated circuitry are contained in a 4½-cubic-inch package that weighs 4 ounces."
"This paper analyzes the step and impulse response of a phase-locked loop discriminator with an optimum-type RC filter. In previous papers the multiplier in a phase-locked loop is linearized in order to obtain the optimum filter design, and the response to a large step is not considered. In this paper the system is treated as a second-order nonlinear system, and phase plane analysis is used to determine the transient response. Some very interesting results were found analytically and then verified experimentally. For example, it was found that the phase error can be greater than π and the system will still lock onto the carrier after an unusual transient response."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The best available preliminary information has been gathered on what materials can be used successfully and how these materials react in various space environments. Such information is necessary as a guide to space vehicle design engineers. In addition to the factors presented here, such items must be considered as: the exact nature of the missile of a space vehicle, the type of orbit, the length of time the vehicle is expected to function, the reliability objective, and similar goals, although regardless of the mission, certain general effects of the space environment present problems which must be met in the design itself. Data have been gathered on these general effects, which include high vacuum, magnetic fields, gravitational fields, micrometeorites, cosmic rays, neutrons, trapped charged particles, and electromagnetic radiation, including ultraviolet light, X rays, and gamma rays. This information is summarized in Table 1."
"Today's military systems contracts invariably have numerical and organizational reliability requirements. With systems of any size, it is advantageous for the prime contractor to sub-contract out many equipments and units. Small firms often provide superior specialized technical competence, more favorable prices, faster delivery, and a more conscientious effort; however, the small firm's lack of continuing and repetitive contractual requirements for reliability usually results in organizational weakness in this area. These firms are unable to support the cost of permanent reliability, standards, and quality control functions of the type required by these contracts. A standard comprehensive quality or reliability survey would eliminate these organizations from competition, and a superficial survey leading to their acceptance would result in the acquisition of an ineffective subcontractor. As a substitute, a specially designed analytical survey is performed which investigates the quality, reliability, standards, and design functions of the prospective sub-contractor, and indicates not only the deficiencies, but also the remedial action required. If, on the basis of price, delivery and technical competence, a firm in this category is awarded a subcontract, procedures are instituted which invariably result in a reliability achievement at least equal to that of some large organizations which, at times, have inflexible and incompatible procedures. This paper describes, in brief, the survey techniques and the remedial procedures instituted."
"The widely prevalent assumption that device failure rates are multiplied when two or more functions are incorporated In a single enclosure is examined with respect to actual experience on single-element vs multiple-element electron tubes. The feasibility and economics of multi-element structures are considered in the light of the recent trend toward greater and greater complexity of device combinations. The natural limits to this trend are predicted by extrapolating known factors related to spread of characteristics, random catastrophic failures, and life. Some of the most recent examples of this philosophy are described and discussed in comparison to earlier versions providing similar functional performance."
"This report discusses the evolution, since the formation of the Department of the Air Force in 1947, of the Air Force's administrative policy concerning the reliability of complex military electronic equipment and systems. It describes developments in defining and regulating the contractor reliability effort and the monitoring and advisory activity of the Air Force procuring agencies. By reference to numerous policy statements made by the Air Force, the report demonstrates that, within only a few years after its first stated concern regarding reliability, the Air Force has succeeded in developing a reliability program which is sufficiently detailed and integrated to provide substantial assurance of reliable equipment."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The philosophy of manufacturing transistors on an automatic line optimized for a particular high frequency type is reviewed. The method of optimizing for different types and the process controls used to monitor these procedures are analyzed. The concept of defining high frequency characteristics through functional tests rather than by traditional parameters and some of the problems encountered with this approach are discussed. Results of sampling tests for life and electrical characteristics are reviewed. Field data, both consumer production line and in use failure rates, are given."
"It is becoming a recognized fact that many of the electronic piece parts used in present day ballistic missile and space probes are inadequate for the long-life space programs of the near future. Realization of the major differences of life and reliability requirements resulting from short and long term exposures to the space environment has led to a four point plan for the establishment of an acceptable class of parts that will meet the more rigid demands. Presented here are the plan and some of the preliminary results obtained to date."
"Design criteria which result in a systematic method to approach specified reliability requirements of equipment are essential to the development of complex electronic systems. A practical approach to designing equipment which lends itself to theoretically valid reliability prediction has long been sought. The worst-case analysis offers an answer in terms of a simple, well-organized, analytical method. Furthermore, application of this method results in a number of factors which benefit the component design engineer, the system design engineer, the administration of the engineering organization which applies these techniques, and the manufacturer of the component parts. The subject of worst-case criteria will be introduced, and the resulting effects on hardware and the engineer will be examined. The procedure for performing the worst-case analysis will then be described, and sample circuits designed in this manner will be shown. Lastly, the relation of worst-case criteria to statistical theory will be described, and the validity of worst-case criteria for reliability prediction will be shown."
"In missile production, a recurring problem is the measurement of derived parameters. Unlike volts, amperes, and ohms, these parameters do not lend themselves to standard black-box test equipment. Nevertheless, whatever test equipment is used for their measurement still must be closely correlated to yield consistent and reliable measures. The Span Plan, which has been successful largely because it uses range estimates rather than actual variances, has shown itself to be the most practical method for conducting correlation studies on Sidewinder missile test stations. After discussing the Span Plan in some detail, the author concludes that the Correlation Capability Program, in establishing and maintaining close correlation of test stations, has been a significant contributor to Sidewinder's success."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper contains some applications of an elementary study of unate truth functions. One application is a method of deciding when a truth function is linearly separated, i. e., is expressible as a linear polynomial inequality in its arguments (letting 1 represent truth and 0 represent falsity). Other applications are to contact nets and to rectifier nets. Much of the material of this paper, although not in print, is well known to some logicians and switching theorists. Nothing from the first three sections is original."
"Techniques are developed for the logical design of magnetic core circuits to produce arbitrary single-output combinational switching functions. The approach is based on the relationship of a single magnetic core circuit to a linearly separable switching function. A synthesis procedure is developed which uses a pair of logical primitives, AND with NOT and OR with NOT, which are similar to the STROKE primitive and its inverse. Procedures are developed for the synthesis of symmetric functions which require no more than the integral part of (n+3)/2 cores, approximately half the number used in previously published procedures. The synthesis of arbitrary switching circuits is treated as a linear programming problem, and a table of all four-variable circuits is presented in which no circuit requires more than three cores."
"An algebra suited to logical design with majority-decision elements (parametrons, Esaki diodes, etc.) is developed axiomatically. The utility of the new algebra is demonstrated by resolving sample problems."
"An important step in the design of digital machines lies in the derivation of the Boolean expressions which describe the combinational logical networks in the system. Emphasis is generally placed upon deriving expressions which are minimal according to some criteria. A computer program has been prepared which automatically derives a set of minimal Boolean expressions describing a given logical network with multiple-output lines. The program accepts punched cards listing the in-out relations for the network, and then prints a list of expressions which are minimal according to a selected one of three criteria. This paper describes the basic design procedure and the criteria for minimality."
"One who wishes to give a group of laymen a feeling for the way we computer engineers can coax sophisticated information-handling behavior from an organization of simple physical elements can provide a striking on-the-spot example by training his laymen to simulate various kinds of simple elements and by organizing them into a network whose behavior is obviously more sophisticated than that of any element. Each individual watches the up-down hand position of one or two others, and adjusts his own hand position according to a response task which is equivalent to that of an AND, OR, NOT, or flip-flop element-although task assignments are made in such a way that the participants don't hear a single esoteric word, nor realize that they might be doing ``logic.'' Counters, shift registers, and adders may be organized and operated in a way which proves very entertaining to participants and on-lookers, and yet which provides them with very realistic basic concepts about how a computer might work."
"Magnetic-core memory elements characteristically require bipolar applied fields. The vanishing inner diameter of toroids and the loss of the third dimension entirely in deposited thin films demands minimization of the number of wires. A configuration which has been investigated and applied in a word organized memory at the University of California at Los Angeles is illustrated in Fig. 2. It consists of a pair of mutually inverted and parallel connected transistors. The transistors are not in general symmetrical. This paper discusses some of the system considerations which determine the important design parameters. Methods for location of regions of satisfactory operation in the many-variable space of the inverted transistor pair are described. Although a particular design problem is discussed, attention is focused on the question, ``What classical and new procedures can we use to reduce the number of dimensions in such design problems?'' The power of the computer as a design tool is crucially dependent upon such processes."
"An analysis of the terminal characteristics of thin ferrite toroid cores under arbitrary drive and load conditions is presented. The analysis is founded only on the following two experimentally confirmed conditions: 1) the time required for a complete reversal of flux under unloaded conditions is inversely proportional to the magnitude of a step-driving field which is in excess of the critical field required to initiate flux change; 2) the open circuit voltage-time output waveforms caused by step driving currents are identical when normalized with respect to amplitude and time. The normalized output voltage waveform f'(x) is used to develop a terminal characteristic equation. It is shown that f'(x) may be obtained by using a nonideal step-input current. Utilizing a modified Gaussian equation to represent f'(x), equations are developed to allow the prediction of core response to arbitrary input waveforms, using 4 parameters easily obtained from voltage response vs NI step-drive plots, and f(x), which is the integral of the normalized expression for the open circuit voltage f'(x), and is proportional to the flux switched in the core. The equations are expanded to include a load circuit and to test the validity of the expressions developed. Theoretical and experimental results are compared for a core loaded with series RL and RLC circuits with both ramp and step-drive currents. Agreement is shown to be good, even though the core used was not particularly thin."
"After a brief review of pertinent magnetic effects and sonic wave propagation in elastic media, a nonvolatile, digital, magnetic storage scheme is described, wherein binary words may be stored by magnetizing segments of a wire, and the information may be read out an unlimited number of times with no deterioration of the stored information. Two storage schemes are presented: a temporary, electrically addressed storage, and a permanent, program-type store. Bit-storage density, read-out and input pulse shapes, and read-out frequency are noted. Possible limitations such as losses, temperature effects, and pulse shape are balanced against advantages and a comparison is made to a number of other types of bit storage."
"A system design for a digital correlator based on the application of the residue number system for computation is presented. Areas of investigation include sampling, analog-to-residue conversion, logical design of the arithmetic units, residue-to-analog conversion, and modes of operation of the proposed digital correlator. The advantages of speed of computation and simplicity of logic due to the use of a residue number system are shown to result in a significantly faster and simpler system than if a conventional number system were used. The resulting digital correlator is designed for megacycle sampling and computation with a 0.1 per cent system precision."
"A method of generating voltages which are arbitrary functions of time is suggested in which a chain of cold-cathode selector tubes is used as a single-pole, multi-position switch: accuracies of ±1 per cent can be achieved with relatively simple adjustment. A generator using this method is described in detail, and typical output curves are shown. The generator is extremely versatile, not only due to the range of functions which can be produced, but also due to its ability to: 1) operate over a wide range of speeds, 2) change instantaneously from one speed to another, and 3) generate two separate functions, one displaced with respect to the other by a variable, preset delay."
"A technique is developed for the straightforward simulation of the transfer function of a certain class of linear systems. This method is particularly well adapted to the analysis of systems with fixed transfer function and variable initial conditions and forcing functions. In particular, a single simulation, minimal in its use of integrators, will suffice to handle forcing functions and initial conditions on both input and output."
"The third biennial PGEC Membership Survey was completed in the Fall of 1960. The response to the questionnaire was excellent (58 per cent), and the data extracted are reported herein. Factors regarding the nature of work, geographic location, salary, education, and fringe benefits are reported. Bar graphs, curves, and commentary are included to aid in assessing the Professional Group's character and growth."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A correspondence has been established1 between the topology of relay contact networks and the topology of magnetic circuits, which may be applied to a relay tree to produce a magnetic structure capable of generating, in a simple manner, all Boolean functions of N variables. Once the basic magnetic topology is established, it may be distorted to achieve winding simplicity at the expense of magnetic circuit complexity. In the resulting arrangement, the drive, hold (variable) and reset windings are always in the same position, regardless of the function to be generated. Any one of the 22N functions of N variables is generated by linking a selected group of the output legs. The structure is such that all switching paths are of equal length, causing all outputs to be equal in amplitude. This balanced arrangement also permits the holding MMF to be significantly smaller than the drive MMF. The holding scheme is a symmetrical one, specifically arranged to overcome shuttle flux problems and reduce noise. An 8-leg manganese magnesium zinc ferrite structure is operated easily at a 4-μsec cycle time with an output of 500 mv into 5 ohms. The peak-signal-to-peak noise ratio was at worst 8:1. A 1-in-256 selector, using seventeen 16-leg structures, is under constuction. The structure described here is in a sense the complement of the laddic,2 in that the drive and hold windings are always applied in fixed positions and different functions are generated by linking different sets of output legs."
"In this paper, the problem of determining economical state assignments for finite-state sequential machines is studied. The fundamental idea in this study is to find methods for selection of these assignments in which each binary variable describing the new state depends on as few variables of the old state as possible. In general, these variable assignments in which the dependence is reduced yield more economical implementation for the sequential machine than the assignments in which the dependence is not reduced. The main tool used in this study is the partition with the substitution property on the set of states of a sequential machine. It is shown that for a sequential machine the existence of assignments with reduced dependence is very closely connected with the existence of partitions with the substitution property on the set of states of the machine. It is shown how to determine these partitions for a given sequential machine and how they can be used to obtain assignments with reduced dependence."
"A method of Quine for identifying the core prime implicants of a given truth function, without obtaining all its prime implicants, is generalized under the so-called ``don't care'' conditions. It is shown that our method is equivalent to, and sometimes an improvement of, a result of Roth. When all the prime implicants (under the don't care conditions) of a truth function are given, our method becomes a generalization of a result of Ghazala and is equivalent to another result of Roth. It is also pointed out that our method may be used, in a way similar to using Roth's, for simplifying truth functions."
"The computing time for binary division is shortened by performing division, radix 2p on the binary operands, where p is a positive integer. Each quotient digit radix 2p is computed in almost the same time required to determine a binary quotient digit. Therefore, computing time is reduced by approximately the factor p over conventional binary division. The method is most useful for synchronous machines but can be applied to either serial or parallel operation. The theory of nonrestoring division in any integral radix r is discussed. Each quotient digit is considered as the sum of two recursive variables ak and bk, whose values depend on the divisor multiplier and relative signs of the partial remainders. The divisor multiplier is limited to odd integers in order to determine the quotient digit unambiguously. Using ak and bk, a single recursive equation combining all sign conditions is derived. This permits the derivation of the correct round-off procedure and shows that binary nonrestoring division is a particular case of nonrestoring division, radix r. An arrangement of components for a serial computer and a sample division for radix four are given."
"PASCAL is a binary parallel computer with a word length of 42 bits, a clock-pulse repetition time of 1½ μsec, performing, on the average, 60,000 operations per second. Wired-in floating-point facilities are provided. Core storage is backed by a drum and by magnetic tape. There are modification versions for indexing as well as for stepping-up purposes. Special instructions include count and repeat instructions, jumps on the result of an earlier comparison, and two kinds of link instructions for facilitating the use of subroutines and interpretative programs. Transfer instructions enable a simultaneous bidirectional data flow between drum and cores or between tape and cores while computations are going on."
"A basic technique is presented which enables the development of Esaki diode NOT-OR logic circuits. Two embodiments of the basic scheme are discussed, which, when combined with an OR-DELAY circuit, provide a logically complete system. Emphasis is placed on the more economical of the two embodiments. A tolerance analysis is included, which demonstrates that the technique enables the practical design of logic circuits. The requirements placed on Esaki diode characteristics, and the speed limitations of the circuits, are discussed. Examples of working circuits are shown, including photographs of voltage wave shapes."
"The past decade has been a productive period for development in the field of large-scale digital computers. Magnetics has played an increasingly important part in these developments [1]-[8]. Magnetic cores, tapes, and drums have found almost universal acceptance for memory functions. Some future computers will undoubtedly use magnetic logic and control circuits. This survey is a capsule view of twenty-four square-loop magnetic logic circuits which have been proposed or developed so far, with a brief description of the way each circuit or circuit family meets the requirements of logic circuitry. All circuits are treated with a consistent terminology, and the generic relationships among circuits are stressed. Included in this survey are parallel and series transfer core-diode schemes, core-transistor schemes, and all-magnetic schemes of various topologies."
"An all-magnetic logic scheme is one with which a workable digital system could be constructed involving only magnetic elements, current-carrying conductors, and sources of clock pulses. Historical developments of both resistance schemes (dependent upon coupling-loop resistance) and nonresistance schemes (possessing at least first-order independence of coupling-loop resistance) are described, with reference to all relevant published work known to the authors. Included are: 1) schemes using electric-circuit transfer linkage with simple cores, multipath cores, and thin-film elements, and 2) schemes using continuous magnetic structures where transfer linkage is purely magnetic."
"This paper describes the circuits used in a decimal arithmetic unit which utilizes ferrite magnetic elements and copper conductors only. The arithmetic operations of addition, subtraction, and multiplication are performed with a product and sum capacity of three decimal digits. The sole logical building block of this system is a two-input inclusive-OR module with a fan-out capability of three with any desired logical positive and negative combination. The system involves the use of some 325 modules, each of which contains two magnetic multiaperture devices (MAD's). This paper gives a complete description of the circuit and physical arrangement of the machine. The system is controlled from a manual keyboard, and readout from the machine is via incandescent lamps controlled directly from the MAD elements, no intermediate elements being required. The \"worst case\" drive-pulse amplitude range for the completed machine, varying all clock pulses simultaneously, is ± 10 per cent."
"A logical design technique is developed for use with the particular module developed for this system. The detailed properties of this module, as well as the philosophy that led to its particular form, were covered in Part I of the paper. Briefly, the module forms the (inclusive) OR function of two input variables. This function can subsequently be transmitted to three receivers, each transfer being independently logically positive or negative. The read-outs are nondestructive and the transmitter module must be explicitly cleared before read-in is again possible. In view of the relatively small fan-in and fan-out for this module, and since only the OR function can be directly formed during any single transfer, complex logic functions must be formed slowly, a step at a time. This step-by-step generation of functions results in the need for more modules than might otherwise be required, but aside from that, the synthesis techniques are not particularly different from those of customary logical design. In particular, the design of an arithmetic unit designed for decimal addition, subtraction and multiplication is outlined. Some comparisons are noted between this particular all-magnetic logic scheme and conventional core-diode schemes. Comparisons are also made between magnetic logic schemes in general and some other realization schemes, such as ac-operated parametrons and conventional transistor systems."
"A magnetic core memory is described which has a read-write cycle time of 2.18 μsec, an access time of 1 μsec, and a storage capacity of 1,179,648 bits. The array configuration and the design of the driving system are shown. The core and transistor requirements are discussed, and a description is given of the sensing and the driving circuitry. Design factors which governed the choice of the 3-dimensional system organization are presented."
"A unique system of ferrite-core matrix switches and drivers has been developed for a low-cost magnetic-core memory. The memory uses coincident-current techniques and has a capacity of 10,000 characters with seven bits per character. A 20-μsec read-compute-write cycle features serial-by-character processing. Approximately 7 μsec is computing time, and 13 μsec is read-write time. The matrix switch requires only two sets of five drivers to select one out of 100 individual outputs. The drivers operate in an unusual three-out-of-five coding arrangement. A Set and Reset a driver, each using four transistors in parallel, are also required for the matrix switch. Two matrix switches provide the 200 X-Y half-select drives for a 100 × 100 seven-plane core array. At read time, two half-select current pulses of 250 ma to 300 ma are emitted with an effective 10 per cent to 90 per cent rise time of 0.3 μsec. At write time, half-select current pulses with 1.2-μsec rise time are emitted on the same selected lines, but in the opposite direction. A new method of timing the drive current allows the read pulse to rise in 0.3 μsec, even with a low-voltage power supply and an inductive load that would otherwise limit the rise time to 0.8 μsec. All current-driving circuits use alloy junction transistors. The drive current is furnished from a 10 to 12 volt power supply, and temperature compensation of the drive currents is accomplished through control of power-supply voltage. Operating temperatures range from 10°C to 40°C."
"Coincident-current techniques, usually associated with parallel ferrite-core stores, may also be used for the operation of serio-parallel or purely serial memories. After outlining, in block diagram form, one possible physical realization of a serial system, the paper examines the conditions under which such a store is economically justified. The distinguishing feature of the system discussed is that coincidence is established in the memory matrix between two currents representing an address signal and a time signal, respectively. Studies of the characteristics and economics of serio-parallel devices are however not reported in detail. It is shown how the properties of the time-controlled serial store may lead to the adoption of a word-asynchronous design for serial digital computers. In such a machine, timing is not controlled or determined by limited store access. As examples, the paper indicates how the serial techniques facilitate the incorporation into small serial computers, of autonomous transfers, automatic floating point operations, high speed multiplication, division and shift orders and asynchronous transfers between, say, a high speed store and a magnetic drum."
"A method of monitoring the program execution in a digital computer on the basis of the flow diagram of the computing program has been devised. A comparatively low-cost equipment for monitoring a maximum of 64 boxes in a flow diagram has been constructed. The monitoring method is flexible and convenient in its application. It can be used in connection with relative or symbolic addresses, compilers, etc. The user must provide only a flow diagram drawn on translucent paper in a certain form and the information to correlate this diagram with the computing program. A subroutine modifies the computing program as needed for the monitoring purpose and restores it to its original form when the user so desires. The monitoring introduces only a very small increase in computing time, requiring for each call-up of a box in the flow diagram only a time amounting to that needed for two simple unconditional jumps. The monitor can be used to present during the computation a visual dynamic picture of the progress of the program and to register, on occurrence, the whereabouts of an interruption, thus facilitating the tracing of the error. The principle of the monitoring method and the subroutine program, and the essentials of the constructed monitor equipment, are described in detail."
"A method is described which permits the encoding of arbitrary geometric configurations so as to facilitate their analysis and manipulation by means of a digital computer. It is shown that one can determine through the use of relatively simple numerical techniques whether a given arbitrary plane curve is open or closed, whether it is singly or multiply connected, and what area it encloses. Further, one can cause a given figure to be expanded, contracted, elongated, or rotated by an arbitrary amount. It is shown that there are a number of ways of encoding arbitrary geometric curves to facilitate such manipulations, each having its own particular advantages and disadvantages. One method, the so-called rectangular-array type of encoding, is discussed in detail. In this method the slope function is quantized into a set of eight standard slopes. This particular representation is one of the simplest and one that is most readily utilized with present-day computing and display equipment."
"In the time-division multiplier the product x1·x21 and amplitude modulation with X2. The circuit can be arranged in such a manner that division by means of a quantity x3 can be carried out simultaneously, the output being x1·x2/x3. When transistor switches are employed the error is 1·10-4 machine units only. The zero error for X2, used for amplitude modulation, can be reduced to 2·10-5 machine units."
"Two analog-to-digital sequential converters have been devised which combine in one tunnel-diode pair per bit the functions of an amplitude discriminator and memory. In addition, one of the two schemes utilizes each tunnel-diode pair as a delay network. The conversion duration of one of these six-bit converters, which employs germanium 2N559 transistors and gallium arsenide 1N651 tunnel diodes, has been set to 1 μsec. Shorter conversion times are possible, but are not required in the present application of that converter as an integral part of an electronic high-speed signal processing system. The use of tunnel diodes presents a significant improvement in the art of converter design by virtue of circuit simplicity and performance. The paper describes the principle and operation of the converters and discusses pertinent considerations for their design. Particular emphasis is given to the discriminator property of a series-aiding tunnel-diode pair. A comprehensive bibliography relating to tunnel-diode switching circuits is attached."
"This Bibliography, which has been compiled from many technical publications in this country and abroad, covers a wide area in theory, design, and application. It is of interest to note that the second reference, which discusses the use of a magnetostrictive delay line in an aircraft navigation system, has served as the stimulus for almost all of the consequent research and development. The third reference, which is the first published account of the use of this type of delay line in a digital computer, is of historical importance in the computer art."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The algorithm described in this paper is the outcome of an endeavor to answer the following question: Is it possible to find procedures which would enable a computer to solve efficiently path-connection problems inherent in logical drawing, wiring diagramming, and optimal route finding? The results are highly encouraging. Within our framework, we are able to solve the following types of problems: 1) To find a path between two points so that it crosses the least number of existing paths. 2) To find a path between two points so that it avoids as much as possible preset obstacles such as edges. 3) To find a path between two points so that the path is optimal with respect to several properties; for example, a path which is not only one of those which cross the fewest number of existing paths, but, among these, is also one of the shortest. The minimal-distance solution has been programmed on an IBM 704 computer, and a number of illustrations are presented. The class of problems solvable by our algorithm is given in a theorem in Section III. A byproduct of this algorithm is a somewhat remote, but unexpected, relation to physical optics. This is discussed in Section VI."
"In this paper, networks of finite-state machines, rather than individual machines, are discussed. The investigation centers around cascade networks, where the output of one machine serves as an input to another. It is shown how, by means of connection matrices, the characteristics of such a network can be obtained from those of the component machines, and how a specified machine can be decomposed into a number of cascaded components. The advantages of such a decomposition, as well as some of the problems that remain to be solved in this area, are discussed."
"The problem of synthesizing switching networks out of linear-input (threshold) elements is studied for the class of symmetric switching functions. Tight bounds are derived for the number of elements required in a minimal realization, and a method of synthesis is presented which yields economical networks. Minimal networks result for all symmetric functions of no more than about twelve variables, and for several other cases. In particular, it is shown how the parity function of any number n of variables can be realized with about log2(n) elements."
"A new approach to the mathematical representation of switching functions is presented. It was developed in connection with a theoretical study of magnetic-core logic, but the results are considered to be more basic and general than the core-logic problem. The ampere-turns (MMF) expression for core switching is shown to be part of a special type of Fourier series expansion of a switching function, in which the turns are directly related to the spectrum of the function. Fouriers transform methods, used for analysis of X-ray diffraction, have been adapted to the representation of switching functions. The method leads not to Boolean algebra, but to ordinary algebra in terms of the orthogonal functions (-1)k1x1+k2x2+...+knxn, where X1, X2,...,Xn = 0,1, and k1,k2,...,kn = 0,1. Methods of application are described for magnetic-core logic and for character recognition."
"One method of generating a waveform whose correlation function resembles that of noise is by means of combinations of periodic binary sequences. In this paper the properties of the correlation function for arbitrary functions of n periodic binary sequences are investigated. An especially simple formulation is obtained when each binary variable in all the sequences has equal probability of being 0 or 1. For this case, it is shown that there are only two functions which result in a correlation function like true purely random noise. One of these two functions corresponds to addition modulo 2. Also, the correlation for the case of a random function of n sequences is derived. Finally, expressions are obtained for the number of degenerate Boolean functions."
"This paper describes a class of number representations which are called signed-digit representations. Signed-digit representations limit carry-propagation to one position to the left during the operations of addition and subtraction in digital computers. Carry-propagation chains are eliminated by the use of redundant representations for the operands. Redundancy in the number representation allows a method of fast addition and subtraction in which each sum (or difference) digit is the function only of the digits in two adjacent digital positions of the operands. The addition time for signed-digit numbers of any length is equal to the addition time for two digits. The paper discusses the properties of signed-digit representations and arithmetic operations with signed-digit numbers: addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and roundoff. A brief discussion of logical design problems for a signed-digit adder concludes the presentation."
"A system o integrated computer programs which provide useful machine assistance to the development of a digital system will be described. The individual programs are capable of such separate engineering tasks as verifying design data, optimally locating electronic logic packages on a chassis, routing interconnecting wires and preparing documents like wiring diagrams and wire running lists. The engineer using the system need not be a computer programmer, because the machine aids programs are called into operation with a simple mnemonic language keyed to the engineer's traditional tasks. This aspect of the work, as well as the accomplishment of the individual engineering tasks, is emphasized in this paper."
"Physical elements used for switching logic have finite probability of failure. The application of redundancy to logic circuits is presented for improving computer reliability. This paper shows various redundant configurations considered and the conclusionon drawn. From all of the considerations, the majority gate provides a practical method for increasing the reliability. It shows that for operating periods which are short compared to the mean time to failure of the elements, a substantial increase in system reliability is obtained with majority-gate redundancy."
"Signal standardization and control directivity are emphasized as the basic physical requirements in considering components and circuit techniques for the handling of digital information. The significance and the ways and means of meeting these requirements are most revealing when illustrated by the operations of the parametric phase-locked oscillator and the tunnel diode. A categorical listing of digital-gain elements, accompanied by illustrative comments, is presented to offer a unified viewpoint on digital components and circuit techniques in connection with present-day practice and prospective future development."
"In recent years, the design of computer circuits has become a thorough and complex job. Factors such as logical design, behavior of components, manufacturing techniques, and life tests are playing an even more important role in the design of an efficient circuit. This paper will discuss how circuit optimization techniques and use of the UNIVAC® I computing system aided in reducing cost and avoiding many of the pitfalls in the design and production of efficient high-speed circuitry for UNIVAC-LARC."
"In a continuous superconductive film memory, elements are obtained through discrete regions of circulation of persistent currents near the intersection of x-y conductors deposited on the film. Analysis and confirming experiments show that these regions are stable. The elimination of edges of discrete film dots removes the main cause of variation of critical currents. Reproducibilities better than one quarter per cent were obtained. Simplicity of construction permits high bit densities. Memory planes of one hundred cells were made. Advisable speed of operation depends mainly on addressing and sensing circuits. Write-in in 3 nsec was obtained in single elements with only 60 milliamperes drive."
"The need arises for reliable, economical high-speed, semipermanent stores for electronic-telephone switching systems, as well as for modern digital computers. A semipermanent or fixed store is one in which the stored information may not be changed by the machine that is able to consult it. These stores provide data security for such information as operational programs and test routines. A random-access store system where the memory elements consist of a matrix of printed capacitors has been developed. The store has a cycle time of 3 Asec and contains 1024 words each 34 bits long. The access circuits developed enable one to utilize a matrix arrangement of components where a need exists for stores of thousands of words. These circuits consist of diodes and biased square-loop ferrite cores in the input, and magnetic gates, utilizing three transformers in a novel arrangement, in the output."
"The card-changeable permanent-magnet-twistor memory is a large capacity (ca 105 bits) storage media for information that is infrequently changed. The information is stored in the form of small bar magnets bonded to a removable plastic card. The magnets, when magnetized, inhibit the switching of a section of twistor wire at a twistor-wire-solenoid crosspoint. For maximum information density the magnet shape and strength must be optimized with respect to the magnet's action on the inhibited crosspoint and the fringing action on neighboring crosspoints. The objective is a magnet with a small dipole moment, but with adequate inhibition of the twistor switching over a reasonable range of misposition. Suitable magnet shapes and a general discussion of the stray fields in a large array of magnets are given. For maximum capacity, the transmission characteristics of the twistor wire and the character of the access switch must be considered. Two novel structures of this memory permit increased information density and capacity. The feasibility of a random-access high-density memory submodule containing 360,000 bits in 0.7 foot3 with a cycle time of 5 μsec has been demonstrated."
"The technique of programming within the framework of the so-called Newell-Shaw-Simon (NSS) associative list memory is currently the subject of much interest among workers in the area of advanced programming research. Unfortunately, committing a given program to list memory generally entails accepting a significant loss of speed and efficiency in information processing, so that the advantages accruing from the use of list memory must be carefully balanced against its weaknesses. This paper is concermed with the system requirements of a digital computer for which the use of list techniques is to be competitive with standard programming, so that the particular memory organization for a given problem may be chosen on the basis of suitability and ease of programming alone. A description of a list-processing 7090-type computer is appended in order to make our discussion concrete, although engineering and economic feasibility is not implied."
"Three machines have been simulated using an optical scanner and the IBM 704 computer. Each of these simulated machines has read documents containing rows of handwritten Arabic numbers. Sample numbers were produced by at least 20 people for each simulation study. The three machines simulated differ in the control required of the writer during document preparation and in the complexity of the machines. Writing controls were required for the preparation of the first two types of documents. A section of this paper concerns experiments with and a mathematical model of controlled writing. The third simulated machine was applied both to numbers written within preprinted boxes and to numbers written without any guide marks. About one per cent of 2180 of these numbers were misread as the wrong character. This error rate is based on a sequential experiment in which the recognition logic is constructed from all characters not recognized and thus rejected prior to each input character. Numbers, when rejected, cause the programn to identify them from a table. Their structure is then entered into the recognition logic. The rejection rate decreased throughout the experiment. The last rejection rate was about 10 per cent."
"A method for character recognition which is capable of an analog implementation has been studied by simulation on asymbols digital computer. In essence, this method involves maximizing the cross-correlation value between the unknown character and a set of average characters, there being one average character for each allowed character class. An average character is represented by a two-dimensional function. The value of this function at a point is the probability of occurrence of a mark at that point for the character class represented by the average character. Negative weights are given to areas of low probability in each average character to improve discriminability. The simulation results indicate that this method is applicable to the recognition of machine printing, and perhaps to the recognition of constrained hand printing. The method can be implemented in an economical manner using electro-optical techniques."
"The application of the Hall effect to a general-purpose four-quadrant multiplier is discussed. Circuit diagrams for the transistor amplifiers are given. An evaluation of the experimental results is given for a breadboard model of the multiplier. Static accuracies on the order of 1 per cent to 3 per cent are obtained for the Hall channel and the magnetic channel, respectively. Bandwidths of 25 kc and 1.3 kc are achieved for the Hall channel and the magnetic channel, respectively."
"A simple potentiometer equivalent circuit is presented that is valid for single or multiturn, copper-mandrel, wire-wound precision potentiometers. Developed to obtain a practical approximation of potentiometer ac characteristics, it is particularly useful in error analyses where small phase errors are critical. Capacitive compensation techniques are also given that can achieve considerable reduction in potentiometer dynamic error. Even for heavy capacitive loading it is possible virtually to eliminate potentiometer phase error (important in most analog computer circuits). Correspondingly, high-frequency square waves can be attenuated reasonably by such capacitively-compensated potentiometers."
"The concept of a pair of potential-plane ``factor analogs,'' in which voltage measurements at the zeros and poles of a function are used for the calculation, is employed in the design of a general-purpose computer for algebraic functions of a complex variable. The logarithmic complex plane is used in order to represent a wide range of zeros and poles with uniform accuracy. Plotting facilities provide direct graphical output for applications such as frequency response plots and root-locus plots."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper studies composite sequential machines obtained from smaller component machines by their connection in cascade, that is, the outputs from one component are the inputs to the next. Given the specification of a deterministic, completely specified, synchronous, sequential machine (Mealy model), a criterion is derived for such a specification to be decomposable into specifications of smaller machines, the cascading of which will lead to a realization of the original machine required. A simple technique, based on homomorphisms between directed graphs, is arrived at for the actual breaking up of a decomposable specification. A number of additional problems related to sequential machine decompositions are pointed out as concluding remarks."
"The object of this paper is to find state assignments for the internal states of a sequential machine such that the logical equations representing the machine are relatively simple. This is done by finding assignments for which the computation of a particular state variable depends only on the previous values of a small subset of the variables. The chief tool is the concept of a partition pair, which describes (loosely speaking) the information going into and resulting from the evaluation of a state variable. A necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of assignments with reduced dependence is found in terms of these pairs, and their algebraic properties are worked out so that they can be handled and generated. It is shown that the same methods can also be used to find input and output assignments with reduced dependence. The case of ``don't care'' conditions is considered and the theory is seen to apply, except that the failure of an algebraic property makes it weaker."
"This paper describes a method for synthesizing a switching function directly from its: ruth table. A switching function is defined as any mapping of a set of binary input combinations onto 0 and 1. Hence, the procedures apply equally well to the don't care cases. The method rests on the concept alogically passive function (LPF). Roughly speaking, an LPF is a truth table which can be realized with only AND and OR gates-no inverters. Techniques are described for 1) making a function logically passive, 2) eliminating rows and columns from the truth table of an LPF, 3) synthesizing an LPF in a two-level irredundant form, 4) expanding LPF's and 5) synthesizing LPF's with 3-input majority gates. The underlying methods are quite straightforward and appear to be particularly well suited for mechanization on a digital computer."
"An algorithm is described for mechanizing Boolean switching functions by means of a net of magnetic toroidal cores. The algorithm is referred to as Simplex and, in this application, is programmed for a digital computer. Computer solutions specify the wiring configuration for a core or net of cores yielding a device for performing combinational logic. Switching functions are realizable in essentially one clock time. The logical designer may synthesize a function directly from the truth table without proceeding in the customary manner of expressing the function in Boolean canonical form and then attempting to minimize with respect to hardware or other criteria by means of algebraic manipulation or a mapping or charting technique."
"Logical cryogenic circuits differ from the circuitry used with other devices as paths for both the required function and its denial must be provided. Present techniques for logical design of cryogenic circuits either rely on the experience of the designer to achieve a minimal circuit or are derived from analogous relay circuits. An algorithm to develop minimal (or near minimal) circuits by collapsing a complete decoding-tree structure by removing un-needed devices is discussed. The algorithm requires no subjective decisions and is readily programed for inclusion in an automatic design system. A generalization of the algorithm to include functions of n-ary input variables and multiple outputs is also presented."
"The geometric map described in this paper is a graphic representation, using vectors, of the conditions desired in the design of switching networks. This mapping technique makes the well-known techniques such as Boolean algebra, the Quine-McCluskey minimization chart, and Huffman's flow table more effective when designing optimum circuits. Its degree of flexibility in the selection of vectors is advantageous in certain problems."
"This bibliography, which covers material published through 1958, contains nearly 700 references to articles, books, seminars, and other bibliographies pertaining to the theory of switching circuits and logical algebra. A relatively large number of the references are to foreign works, of which the Russian contribution is by far the greatest. An effort has been made to give exact bibliographical references; wherever possible, the titles of the foreign items have been listed in their original language, together with an English translation. Appended to the chronological bibliography are a list of books, a list of other bibliographies, an author index, a subject index, a list of periodicals, and a list of frequently used Russian abbreviations."
"A new algorithm is given for reducing the number of additions and subtractions required in binary division in a computer. The algorithm is presented in two parts. A simplified algorithm, which can significantly reduce the number of operations with minimal additional circuitry, is used to develop the justification of the method. The complete algorithm introduces modifications which allow the minimum number of operations by examination of no more than the leading five bits of the divisor and remainder. An average of two-thirds can be saved in the number of operations."
"This paper describes a general medium-speed junction-transistor equivalent circuit that is valid for large- and small-signal operation. Solutions of nonlinear differential equations written from the equivalent circuit for its response to large-signal driving pulses are obtained by graphical, analytic, and analog computer techniques. The static base-to-emitter V-I characteristic is used extensively in the various analysis techniques and produces the proper response to a driving source of any internal resistance. In Section II a charge-control equation is employed for constructing the equivalent circuit in a common-emitter hybrid π configuration. Section III deals with the techniques for solving large-signal switching problems. Section IV discusses some of the required measurements."
"To conserve manpower and reduce the time needed for designing, assembling, and maintaining new large-scale computers, existing computers have been used to produce design and maintenance data for the new machines automatically. This paper describes some techniques that were devised at the National Bureau of Standards for automatically converting a logical design into detailed wiring plans which specify the actual pin-to-pin connections and other data necessary for assembling, debugging, and maintaining a new machine. Starting from punched-card input transcriptions of the logical design of the new computer, expressed in terms of Boolean algebra, an IBM 704 was programmed to produce 20,000 printed pages of wiring plans, fabrication data, and logical debugging and maintenance manuals."
"After a very brief summary of the various well-known methods of expediting carry-propagation in binary arithmetic units, the paper discusses and develops the ``anticipated-carry'' or ``carry-skip'' technique originally due in decimal form to Babbage, much used in mechanical calculators and lately revived for use in binary units. Various degrees of refinement are possible. It appears that for a given expenditure, the technique results in a unit which is simpler and faster than those using one of the other techniques. Conversely in order to attain a given speed with given circuit elements, the skip technique appears to minimize the equipment requirement among the known speed-up techniques."
"Properties of binary counters which have feedback connections are discussed. Various methods of determining the cyclic period have been reported, as well as techniques for synthesizing feedback connections to obtain a specific period. This paper presents a somewhat different approach to the period determination. It also includes a discussion of a simple method for determining the numerical values eliminated from the normal counting sequence by feedback connections. Several illustrative examples are given."
"A brief theory of correlation, as applied to the recognition of a specific pattern in a binary signal, is presented. The digital shift register, which lends itself well to the practical application of the theory of correlation, is discussed. By digitizing the binary input signal and applying it to a closed-loop delay line, a time-compressed version of the input signal circulates on the line, and the delay line can perform the same function as the digital shift register, with possible advantages of size and cost over the shift register. Sample parameters are postulated for a shift register, and a shift register employing a magnetostrictive delay line is designed. The operation of the designed delay line shift register is then discussed in detail."
"Magnetic storage of binary digital information is currently accomplished by utilizing the two stable and degenerate energy states corresponding to opposite spatial directions of a magnetic domain. However, a second type of magnetic-energy degeneracy exists since a domain wall separating two domains has the same energy regardless of the sense (clockwise or counter-clockwise) of rotation of the magnetization M within the wall. Hence, the rotational sense of M in passing through a wall can be used to represent binary information. The two methods of representation are essentially different since different aspects of spatial symmetry are involved. A practical method of utilizing wall-rotation information coding can be effected by means of strips of thin magnetic film and nearby current conductors which are used to generate magnetic fields in specified directions at specified times and places. A shift register consists of a regular up-and-down domain pattern with M perpendicular to the long strip axis; no information is contained in the domain pattern itself, which only serves to separate spatially the information-bearing walls. Shifting is accomplished by two-phase clock pulses on a pair of shifting windings. Read-out requires the use of the operation of conditional erase, accomplished as follows: if two walls of the same sense are brought together they form a double wall which can subsequently be separated into two walls; if the walls are of the opposite sense they will destroy one another upon being brought together. Thus, erasure occurs on condition that two walls have opposite sense."
"The compensated cryosar is a negative-resistance two-terminal device utilizing a bulk effect in germanium at liquid helium temperatures. Its bistable nature, and the ease with which it can be fabricated in large arrays recommend it for application to computer memory systems. However, careful consideration of device and circuit parameters is necessary if a successful large memory is to be achieved."
"It is possible to build memories in which the contents of all registers are tested simultaneously, and in which there is a single indication of the presence or absence of any number of positive responses to the test criterion. A method is described for separately identifying the members of a set of responses by presenting sequences of tests which generate an identification number for each member. The testing algorithm is easily mechanized, and the number of tests required per item is approximately proportional to the logarithm of the number of file registers. The method also may be used to search for items with contents falling within arbitrary numerical ranges."
"In strobe addressing, a pulse from the memory drum or disk forces the control unit to accept a program word. Strobe addressing for drums or disks costs less than 20 per cent of conventional addressing for real-time control programs, but becomes impractical for very complex problems. A comparison of various forms of strobe and conventional addressing shows that simple strobe addressing uses the memory as efficiently as conventional addressing if the problem can and must be solved in one revolution. By interlacing instructions with complete freedom for the program to switch interlaces, a strobe-addressed drum appears to have as many parallel bands as it has interlaces, thereby extending the advantages of strobe-addressing to more complex problems. Only minor changes in the program memory are necessary, and the arithmetic element and control unit remain essentially unchanged. The irregular interlace organization is described for an airborne computer with an 8-fold interlace, and its effectiveness is evaluated. In a test problem, this method reduces the size of the required memory by a factor of four and increases the effective computing speed fourfold."
"Complex, flexible, computer programs can be written easily in list-processing languages. Storage registers are linked together in arbitrary sequences to form lists and list structures, which are the units of the languages. Special provisions are made for recursive subroutines and for hierarchical programs. These particular languages have been used to write game-playing, problem-solving, and other ``intelligent'' Programs."
"A SAP (Symbolic Assembly Program) package has been developed for the IBM 704 computer to simulate the logical tree of circuitry associated with a character-recognition device. The program has two major inputs: a particular set of logic statements (of AND and OR type) on cards, for flexibility, and tape reels of binary images of ideal or real characters. The output is the ``score'' of the logic: how many misjudgments it made on the images, what areas of the logic caused the misjudgments, and possible improvements of these areas."
"A method for solving coordinate rotation equations on an incremental digital computer is described in this paper. The method employs the basic incremental techniques used in a digital differential analyzer (DDA). However, the method differs from the usual DDA approach in that it takes full advantage of the possibilities for combining ``remainder,'' or ``R'' registers. This results in a reduction of digital storage-capacity requirements. Further, techniques are employed which, because of the specific nature of the application, permit additional reductions in storage requirements."
"It has been known for some time that an approximate correlation analysis of a random process can be performed using quantized values of the signal. The simplest form possible is a two-level correlation, wherein merely the polarities of the process at two sampling times, T1 and T2=T1+τ are compared. This report describes a study of this technique, using analog-computer circuitry; it is an interesting example of how existing electronic analog computers can implement essentially digital functions in making accurate statistical measurements."
"This is the author's report of his visit to the Soviet Union in June and July, 1960. The purpose of the trip was to attend the First Congress of the International Federation of Automatic Control (IFAC) as an official American delegate. The author also arranged to meet with certain scientists in psychology, physiology, and the computer sciences, and to visit some Russian research institutions doing work in these areas. Soviet research in cybernetics, neuro-cybernetics, artificial intelligence, mechanical translation, and automatic programming are discussed, and new developments in Soviet computing machines are described. The author describes his discussions with several important Soviet personalities in the computer sciences, which dealt with their particular work and the work of their research institutions. He concludes that Soviet research in the computer sciences lags behind Western developments, but that the gap is neither large nor based on a lack of understanding of fundamental principles. He believes that the Soviets will move ahead rapidly if and when priority, in terms of accessibility to computing machines, is given to their research."
"The paper describes a method of examining the stability of linear systems which is based on a conformal transformation of the system equation and the application of Cauchy's principle of the argument. The method requires only the use of operational amplifiers of a repetitive analyzer and it has a number of important advantages over other methods which use analog-computing equipment. Using a very simple transformation, it is possible with this method to examine the stability of linear systems as well as to determine the damping constant. The results can be viewed directly on the screen of a cathode-ray oscilloscope."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Theories of several elastic effects resulting from the contribution of electrons to the strain energy function of germanium are presented. They show that the elastic properties are appreciably changed by doping with donor and acceptor impurities. The properties considered are: (1) volume, (2) elastic constants of degenerate n-type material, (3) third-order elastic constants of degenerate n-type material, (4) elastic constants of degenerate p-type material, (5) elastic constants of material containing electrons bound to donors, (6) elastic constants of material containing electrons bound to pairs of donor atoms. The most striking effect is found for the case of degenerate n-type germanium, in which the theory predicts that c44 can be lowered by 8% with attainable doping levels."
"Single-crystal specimens of germanium have been tested in tension over a range of temperature and strain rate. Dislocation density has been determined as a function of plastic strain, and some direct measurements of dislocation velocity have been made. From these results the plastic behavior of germanium can be explained in terms of dislocation velocity and dislocation multiplication, and is analogous to the interpretation given by Johnson and Gilman for deformation of lithium fluoride. Effects of crystal purity and orientation have been examined; strain-aging effects were absent. Conjectures are made as to the causes of work hardening."
"This paper is concerned with an investigation of the feasible track-density potential of random-access magnetic-disk storage where magnetic-head positioning is essential. Primary emphasis is given to a novel, servo-access concept (closed-looped head-positioning control which includes the record member) for track location and registration. This servo concept has been investigated as a means of making possible automatic tracking as well as precision positioning. Inherent in such an access control technique is an enhanced suitability for interchangeable record members. Included in the discussion are design and performance results of an access model operated at 154 tracks per inch."
"Such phenomena as dielectric, magnetic, and anelastic relaxation are often described in terms of a distribution of relaxation times. It is shown that a relaxation process which exhibits a Gaussian distribution in the logarithm of the relaxation times (a “lognormal” distribution) can be specified completely by three parameters. These are: the mean relaxation time (τm), the width of the distribution (β), and the magnitude of the relaxation (δJ). The relationships of these parameters to experimentally measurable functions are usually complicated. These relationships were obtained in numerical form by machine computation. Finally, a simple formula is derived which expresses the parameter β in terms of the widths of the distribution of the activation energies and that of the attempt frequencies."
"The present paper deals with the use of the theory and computations given in Part I for a relaxation process governed by a lognormal distribution of relaxation times. The experimental determination of the basic parameters appearing in the theory is shown to require the application of a number of corrections to the usual type of dynamical data. General expressions are derived for these corrections, and the data necessary for their use are presented in graphical form. Specific examples are given of the application of the theory to the analysis of anelastic relaxation phenomena."
"The playback process of a magnetic ring head with finite permeability of head and tape are studied, using the theorem of reciprocity. In order to obtain an accurate result for the playback process, the field around a magnetic gap is studied by a Fourier method. The shift of the gap null for infinite permeability of the head as calculated by Westmijze is confirmed, and the new shift is found when the tape permeability is greater than one. A simplified gap-loss function is given for the case of finite parameters for tape and head."
"Mapping magnetic fields by means of the Hall probe involves a study of the relationship between the Hall probe output and the actual magnetic field. This paper investigates this relationship, and describes a technique developed to obtain the corrected field from experimental measurements to within 1 to 2 per cent of the true magnetic field."
"This correspondence will describe a new class of semiconductor devices called Chargistors. Each device is composed of a bar of either p-type or n-type high resistivity semiconductor material to which a number of rectifying contacts or control electrodes are attached. The conduction through the bar due to hole injection at one end and electron injection at the other is limited by space charges. The space-charge regions exist because both holes and electrons recombine in the intrinsic body. The potential and space-charge distribution in the body can be changed by the action of the control electrodes which cause the current flow to be modulated. The characteristic curves of these devices were observed to be similar to those of vacuum tube triodes, tetrodes, and pentodes, which indicates that the control electrodes behave in a similar manner to grids."
"This note concerns an analytical approach to the problem of base-width reproducibility in the construction of double-diffused transistors. Current gain, being dependent upon base width, is frequently distributed over a wide range of magnitudes for devices intended to be identical. Lack of adequate control in the diffusion process is suggested as a contributing factor in this problem. To investigate the influence of diffusion tolerances, Monte Carlo methods of statistical analysis are applied to an elementary equation characterizing the impurity distribution within a transistor."
"The principal result of this paper is the proof that there is one and only one point for the centewrh ich gives a minimal network when all of the stations are to be connected directly to the center. Thus one can use any search procedure to find the coordinates of the center. Although this treatment is only a solution of a special case of the problem of obtaining the optimal network, we have found by calculation on a real network that substantial savings of line costs can be realized. The optimal network problem is extremely complicated. However, efforts are under way to use and extend the methods described here to devise means for its treatment. The simple nature of the analog procedure suggests that clever use of this technique may be extremely useful in complex problems of this type."
"A method of addressing memories is described which is very powerful in the processing of natural languages, where the arithmetic or logical operations are either nonexistent or do not lend themselves to algorithmic description. The main feature is the guarantee of initiation of an exhaustive search for a linguistic word at a point just beyond the desired address. Sequential search backwards not only locates an address if it is there but also provides identification of a longest match first. The method is further extended to provide “conditional” addressing by prefixing subsequent addresses from information obtained in earlier searches."
"A phase reversal data transmission system is described, capable of operating at 2000 bauds over private telephone lines and at 1200 bauds over switched networks. The advantages and limitations of the system are discussed from a theoretical and practical standpoint. The clocking problem in data transmission is considered and several approaches are indicated. A summary is given of extensive field tests over switched and private lines in Europe and on private (SAGE) lines in the U.S."
"This paper describes a computer storage system in which data flows in and out of the memory on the basis of content rather than location (address). In addition, a small experimental model of this system is described, using ferrite cores as novel associative memory storage elements."
"Matrix elements are calculated for acoustic-mode scattering of holes in the valence band structure typified by germanium. Whitfield's generalization of the deformation potential theorem is used to calculate the electron-phonon interaction; his method is, however, extended to include the spin-lattice coupling. A general expression for the electron-phonon interaction matrix element is obtained, and calculations are presented for some special directions in k-space."
"A model which describes a basic junction, or queuing structure, arising in a general computing system is subjected to a mathematical analysis. The results consist of several formulas describing the performance of various parts of the system. The feasibility in analyzing general queuing problems in this manner is stated, together with the results of a Monte Carlo simulation used for comparison purposes."
"This paper discusses a method of digital power spectrum estimation involving the direct combination of the sample time function with sines and cosines. This treatment is in contrast to the normal indirect digital method which proceeds through the intermediary of the autocovariance function. All the practical design details necessary for the planning of a spectral estimation program are treated."
"A mathematical analysis of the dynamic behavior of subharmonic oscillators (parametrons) is made assuming a nonlinear reactance but a linear dissipation or resistance. Simple equations of motion for the subharmonic and pump amplitudes are derived in the quasistatic, or high-Q, approximation. Numerical solutions are obtained for two cases. The first shows the subharmonic amplitude changing from a small value to its steady state value when a constant pump signal is applied. The second shows decay when the pump signal is removed."
"The design and performance of a newly developed magnetic core memory is described. A two-dimensional array organization and partial switching of toroidal cores were employed in the design of this low-power, high-speed memory. The memory features a unique combination of a current-steering diode matrix and a load-sharing magnetic switch for an economical and high-performance drive system. The operating memory has a storage capacity of 73,728 bits and executes instructions reliably up to a repetition rate of 1.47 mc. The discussion will include a description of the organization, the series-parallel delay line clock, the control of critical timing pulses, and the actual measured performance."
"It is argued that computing machines inevitably involve devices which perform logical functions that do not have a single-valued inverse. This logical irreversibility is associated with physical irreversibility and requires a minimal heat generation, per machine cycle, typically of the order of kT for each irreversible function. This dissipation serves the purpose of standardizing signals and making them independent of their exact logical history. Two simple, but representative, models of bistable devices are subjected to a more detailed analysis of switching kinetics to yield the relationship between speed and energy dissipation, and to estimate the effects of errors induced by thermal fluctuations."
"A table look-up machine based upon a photographic memory is being optimized for the processing of natural languages. It makes use of automatic retrieval of lexical information by means of novel addressing features which allow look-up of phrases regardless of length. Linguistic determinations made on the basis of the lexical information retrieved govern subsequent operations. In addition a sentence buffer holds a sentence long enough to make the backward and forward passes which will be required to make grammatical and contextual analyses."
"The following problem is considered: N queues of unrestricted length are served in cyclic order by a single server. Input to each queue is Poisson, the service time distribution may be arbitrary, and a finite time is required by the server to go from one queue to the next. Supposing that at any queue the server serves all units which he finds when he arrives, what is the probability pn that in a stationary state he finds exactly n units? The method for solving this problem is based on the notion of a “self-consistent” probability distribution and is actually applicable to a general class of multiqueue situations of which the one considered here is typical."
"It is reasoned that the large photovoltages observed by Cheroff and Keller on ZnS crystals are theoretically plausible and can result from a wide class of different mechanisms. Conversely, the conditions under which a photoconductor with periodic inhomogeneities does not show a cumulative photovoltage are shown to be very restrictive and improbable. General theorems concerning the magnitude of the photovoltage are proved, and remarks are made on its directionality."
"When rosin flux activated with amine halides is used in soldering printed circuit boards, metal halides are formed; these halides cannot be removed with organic solvents and thus may cause corrosion. The use of alkanol amines as solder fluxes has been investigated. After soldering, the flux can be removed by rinsing with water. Throughout this investigation radioisotopes were used to identify the compounds studied."
"A mathematical analysis is developed for nonlinear circuits which have at least two stable steady states, and therefore are of interest as computing or memory elements. Circuits containing one or two tunnel diodes will be analyzed in detail as applications of the theory. The method is based on the study of certain “potential function” whose extrema are the steady states of the circuit and whose minima correspond to the stable switching states. This study leads to a qualitative description of all solutions in the large and results in quantitative restrictions on the parameters (R, L, C and nonlinear characteristics) which seem of practical importance."
"The choice of a code for a given application is influenced by many factors, such as economics, compatibility, and reliability. This paper is concerned solely with the reliability of codes, and shows how, for a given number of bits per character and a given minimum distance, the probability of undetected error in an asymmetric channel may be reduced by many orders of magnitude merely by the proper selection of coded characters. For a given minimum distance, an optimum selection of characters requires, as nearly as possible, the same number of “one” and “zero” bit failures to change one character to another. The concept of polarized distance is introduced, and it is shown how the probability of undetected error is related to the minimum distance of a code only in a symmetric channel, while the probability of undetected error is related to the minimum polarized distance in both symmetric and asymmetric channels. The purpose of this paper is to present new theoretical concepts useful in the evaluation of codes, and not to recommend one code over another. The codes in the paper are used only as examples to illustrate the theoretical concepts involved."
"In this paper we consider the problem of the voltage oscillations in a transmission line when a diode represented as a nonlinear capacitance is placed in shunt in that line. In particular we consider the response of this line to periodic driving voltages and study the periodic responses. This physical situation is shown to lead to the mathematical model of the wave equation in the voltage in a domain with an internal boundary (the interface), at which the voltage is required to satisfy a nonlinear jump condition. By an application of Gauss' theorem, the problem is reduced to a nonlinear difference-differential equation. In the case that the generator driving the line is matched to it, this family of equations reduces to a family of nonlinear differential equations. The paper is concerned with a study of the periodic solutions of these two classes of equations."
"An analysis is given on the mechanisms of operation for a current-multiplying hook collector of cylindrical geometry. Mathematical equations are presented which establish the minority carrier transport efficiency within a cylindrical hook collector region; both surface and bulk recombination are assumed to be present. Also included in this analysis is the influence, upon current multiplication, of the factors determining minority carrier injection efficiency for a diffused hook emitter junction. Numerical evaluation of appropriate hook collector design equations are presented in graphical form throughout a range of geometrical parameters applicable to many practical situations."
"This paper surveys some numerical methods applicable in obtaining the distribution of performance parameters associated with the transient behavior of switching circuits. The methods considered are: (1) Monte Carlo, in which sample circuits are simulated on the IBM 704 and their performance computed and tabulated. (2) Parameter sensitivity methods, including propagation of error, in which the first and second moments of the output distribution are estimated from parameter sensitivities; and a method using the total differential of the performance parameter to estimate the deviation of circuit behavior from its component deviations. (3) A surface fitting method, in which there is developed a formula for delay time in terms of circuit component values. Each method is used to determine the delay time of a simple system. Their merits and drawbacks are compared and discussed, and estimates are given of the IBM 704 machine time necessary for implementation on a ten-transistor switching circuit."
"An analysis of the system is discussed and its application to a paper form feeder carriage in a printer is described. A nonlinear differential equation is derived based on stated assumptions and lumped oil parameters. The equation is linearized and solutions for motor velocity and peak pressure, both versus time, are determined. The analytical results show the effect of system parameters on system acceleration, steady state volumetric efficiency, and peak pressure. A limited amount of experimental data has been collected and good correlation between theoretical prediction and experimental results for acceleration time and peak pressure has been achieved."
"This Letter reports a new solid-state optical maser with an output frequency in the red portion of the visible spectrum. One of the important features of this maser is its potential for cw operation. Int his respect it is similar to a previously reported optical maser using trivalent uranium in calcium fluoride."
"This research has produced an experimental system for nondestructive readout in ferrite toroids and has developed methods of coupling the available signal energy into suitable detectors."
"It has recently been demonstrated1 by cyclotron resonance that, as predicted,2,3,4 the degenerate valence-band edge of a silicon crystal is split by shear strains into two nondegenerate band edges at different energies, with ellipsoidal energy surfaces5 in the neighborhood of each. for temperaturesw ith kT small compared to thsep litting, there is thus made available, for each type of strain, a “new half-semiconductor” of almost the simplest type (but with tetragonal, rather than cubic, symmetry) with corresponding new acceptor ionization energy (when the latter is small compared to the splitting) and transport constants. The mobilities, so far as they are determined by acoustic-mode phonon scattering, will be governed by a new set of deformation potentials, distinct for each type of strain."
"The ionization energies of donors and acceptors in germanium and silicon have been successfully interpreted on the basis of hydrogen-like models. In its simplest form such a model merely changes the potential energy from ( −q2/r) to ( −q2/Kr), where K is the dielectric constant, andr eplaces the electron mass by an effective mass.1 Several authors have extended the hydrogen-like model to the case of an effective mass tensor which is anisotropic but has ana xis of rotational symmetry.2–4 Explicit results were given only for cases in which the longitudinal effective mass Ml is greater than the transverse effective mass Mt. I n addition, the method habse en applied onlyt o cubic crystals, in whicthh e dielectric constant,a nd consequently, the potential of a point charge, are isotropic. However, interest has recently developed in cases in which the crystal has only one axis of three- or four-fold rotational symmetry. These are CdAs2, a tetragonal crystal, and p-type germanium and silicon elastically strained along a symmetry axis. In these cases the dielectric constant tensor K has the form of equation where coordinate z is the symmetry axis. They differ in one other matter of detail from those considered in the references2–4: although the effective mass tensors have an axis of rotational symmetry, the transverse mass is greater than the longitudinal mass. The purpose of this note is to extend the method of the references to take account of the anisotropy of the dielectric constant tensor and to present numerical results for the case in which the transverse mass is greater than the longitudinal mass."
"The random access, high-speed memories most frequently used today are of the magnetic core type, which have the ability to be read from and written into at speeds of the order of a few microseconds. In some applications another form of memory can be used that may be read at these high speeds, with capability of being changed in a few minutes. Memories of this type, in which the fast-read cycle is of prime importance, may be called READ ONLY memories."
"The shutter and beam filter systems on commercial x-ray diffraction equipment are relatively unsafe and. inconvenient, especially where several pieces of equipment may be shared by several workers. When the shutter is closed the x-ray beam is not completely shielded and, as is well known, when certain cameras are used, stray radiation leaks from the forward end of the collimator. These leaks, besides being detrimental to other experiments, sometimes greatly exceed the maximum permissible level as set forth by the AEC and, for example, the New York State Department of Labor. The leaks are inconvenient because it is necessary to shut off the x-ray machine before inserting cameras, or specimens in cameras which do not have shutters at all, and often even when removing a camera. In addition, the inserting or changing of a filter in the beam is often subject to the same inconvenience and hazard mentioned above. The shutters reported on here have been in use on our machines for some months, and although straightforward in design, they have proved safe and convenient, and easy to make in a shop. They also can be easily automated for time or push-button control."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"The author index contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in the proceedings record."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"This paper presents an extension of the Muller-Bartky theory of asynchronous switching circuits. A circuit specification is a set of vectors whose components are non-negative integers and which satisfies certain other conditions. The j-th component of such a vector represents the number of times which the signal at the j-th node has changed since the circuit was started. The principal result of the paper characterizes the class of circuit specifications which may be realized by semimodular switching circuits. An alternative method of circuit specification is defined and shown to be equivalent."
"This paper discusses properties of an often encountered class of switching functions: those whose outputs are determined by the sign of a linear combination of numerical equivalents of the inputs, i.e., a weighted summation followed by a threshold discrimination. Any function can be realized by a network of such devices; those functions realized in Just one stage we call realizable. A general property of realizable function, complete monotonicity, is derived and split into useful special properties, k-monotonicities. Several theorems develop these concepts further, l-monotonicity is shown equivalent to the idea of unateness, and two useful properties of 1-monotonic functions are derived. An ordering of the variables of a 2-monotonic function is defined and shown equivalent to the numerical ordering of the weighting coefficients in any realization of the function. An effective test for checking the order by inspection is established. Examples include a function of E. F. Moore, which demonstrates that a completely monotonic function needn't be realizable. A canonical Boolean form for realizable functions, with an effective procedure for enumerating all realizable functions, is developed. Test-synthesis algorithms for completely- and incompletely-specified functions are given, generalizing from R. McNaughton's treatment. The number of realizable functions of n arguments is shown not to exceed 2 Sigma 0n (2n-1 i)."
"The performance of a computer system can be increased by integrating combinational logic and storage functions. Current-switching circuitry offers an effective base for sequential design because of its stability in feedback connections, level setting, and reliability. The sequential logic described in this paper is achieved by modification of the current-switching circuits. A third input signal level is introduced and two logical blocks are connected so that the status of one block is either completely determined by or completely independent of the other block, depending on the status of a control input to the second block. These forcing circuits have significant cost and performance advantages for both sequencing controls and data storage. A universal register is presented and analyzed. Other applications include binary counting, data latching, and signal synchronization."
"The realization of switching functions using current-operated diode logic gates, which employ the direction of current as the binary variable, is presented. Two realization methods are discussed. The dual method consists of a set of rules which are analogous to the procedures employed for the realization of voltage-operated circuits. The lattice method is based on the transmission characteristics of a lattice network of four series-connected diodes. Either method is capable of realizing any arbitrary transmission function, although the number of diodes required may be different. Hybrid networks, which combine the advantages of both methods, are described to illustrate the versatility of current-operated techniques. Practical design procedures are included to guide the designer in the application of the realization rules. A static multiplier, capable of simultaneously multiplying two 4-bit binary numbers, was designed and built to demonstrate the practicability of current-operated diode logic gates. Approximately 270 diodes were required to construct the twenty gates used in the static multiplier. Dynamic tests of the assembled system indicated a reliable capability of 333,000 multiplications per second."
"The logical design of a 24-bit binary adder applicable to Stretchtype computers is described. Solid-state, nanosecond logical elements employing diffused-junction transistors are used in current-mode and emitter-follower configurations. Parallel carry generation and preformed sum-selecting functions for four-bit subgroups are utilized for maximum speed. The higher component count is more than offset by the increased performance over adders of more conventional design. Storage, gating, and half-sum generation elements are parity checked in six-bit groups. Carry and sum generation are checked by redundant serial carry logic operating in an \"after-the-fact\" mode. Checking logic is performed in parallel with adding and storage operations and therefore does not penalize performance. Additions are completed in a relatively fixed time interval because of the parallel carry system and the nature of the logical elements employed. Asynchronous control provides no special advantage where such characteristics hold, and a clock source of symmetrical samples is provided for control. A complete add operation, including storage in transistor registers, can be performed in 250 nanoseconds."
"This paper treats the application of Boolean matrix theory to problems in sequential circuit theory and threshold logics. First, the solution to the Boolean matrix equation is reviewed. This is extended to equations in which one of the matrices is \"unitary,\" or column-permuting. It is then shown how a transformation of Boolean variables may be considered as multiplication by a unitary matrix. This concept is applied to a synchronous recursive circuit whose output is a function of two sets of variables: a set of initial conditions and a set of time-changing variables. The problem of how the circuitry can be designed given the sequence of output functions is solved through Boolean matrices. A threshold-logic circuit may be considered as a set of Boolean functions, one function for each value of the threshold; as such, the circuit is analyzed by means of Boolean matrix theory. Alternatively, threshold circuits are analyzed by means of Post multivalued-logic matrices. In addition to a multivalued-logic matrix to transform the variables of a circuit, a matrix is introduced which will accomplish the effect of a change in threshold."
"A threshold function is a mapping from {0, 1}n into {0, 1} satisfying: there exists integers w1, w2,..., wn, t such that f(x1, x2,..., xn) = 1 iff Sigmai=1n wi xi \\geq t. Two chains of conditions necessary for a function to be a threshold function are discussed. Early parts of the two chains are equivalent. One chain constitutes a sufficient condition while it is not known whether the other more intrinsic condition is sufficient or not. It is shown that any set of threshold functions of n variables realizable by a common set of weights is included in a maximal chain of threshold functions of length 1 + 2n realizable by a common set of weights. If f depends on at most 5 variables or if f or its dual has at most 4-prime implicants, then f is a threshold function iff it is 2-monotonic."
"In this paper we shall discuss a procedure which enables one to analyze and trace the behavior of asynchronous circuits while testing certain properties of this behavior. Although methods for performing this type of analysis have been devised and used in the past, they have differed from the method described here in an important respect (1). In the present procedure information concerning the \"topology\" or interconnection structure of the circuit is used to simplify the analysis, while in earlier procedures this information was not used."
"This paper describes an IBM 7090 program for the design of single output combinational switching circuits for arbitrary sets of primitive logical elements. The only restriction on circuit configurations is that no feedback loops may occur. The procedure is an outgrowth of one given by Roth. The decomposition techniques are generalizations of those discussed by Ashenhurst. Given a function F (A, B, C), where A, B, and C are states of binary variables and F may have don't care combinations, a representation of the form F = G [alpha (A, B), B, C] is called decomposition of F. Any loop-free circuit can be described by a sequence of decompositions. Efficient procedures for the detection of decompositions are given in terms of a convenient normal form representation of switching functions. Simplifications obtained by considering only the subclass of so called vertex-functions are discussed. The program carries out a systematic search through the admissable sequences of decompositions, using a lexicographic ordering, designed so that the most promising sequences are investigated first. Several further refinements are used to limit the search. The calculation yields a list of successively improved implementations, eventually including one of minimum cost. Examples are given of several circuits of minimum or near minimum cost derived by the program."
"It is often convenient to consider the arguments of a switching function to be the components 0 or 1 of a vector. In order to investigate systematically the properties of switching functions, it is important to have standard algebraic forms for their representation and manipulation. Ease of manipulation is attained by selecting binary operations that are commutative and associative, and such that the secondary connective is distributive over the primary connective. Four distributive laws hold among the four commutative and associative operations. The operations in each distributive law are used as the connectives of a standard, or canonical, form of an arbitrary switching function F(x) of n arguments. The main result relating the partial ordering of logical vectors to the parity of binomial coefficients is established. The partial difference operation is used to expand an arbitrary switching function about its arguments. Transformations among the canonical forms are given."
"The functions considered are p-valued functions of n p-valued arguments; they may conveniently be represented by functions over the field Jp of integers modulo some prime p. It is noted that if every function can be uniquely written as a mod-p linear combination f = Sigmai=lpn fibi, fi in Jp, (1) then (1) may be thought of equivalently as a canonical form or as a vector-space representation, with the bi forming a basis. This latter interpretation suggests the use of matrix multiplication to transform functions from one canonical form to another. The present paper is devoted to two main topics: 1. A consideration of various canonical forms and their analogies to the Taylor and Maclaurin expansions and the Lagrange interpolation formula of real-variable function theory. 2. A derivation of the matrices relating these forms and of expedient matrix-inversion techniques. The inversion of a pn times pn matrix is reduced, in general, to the inversion of n p times p matrices and in some cases simply to transposition or rotation of the matrix. These simplifications greatly facilitate the evaluation of 'power' series expansions for all inputs and the generation of power series from function tables."
"This paper describes an IBM 7090 program for the design of single output combinational switching circuits for arbitrary sets of primitive logical elements. The only restriction on circuit configurations is that no feedback loops may occur. The procedure is an outgrowth of one given by Roth. The decomposition techniques are generalizations of those discussed by Ashenhurst. Given a function F (A, B, C), where A, B, and C are states of binary variables and F may have don't care combinations, a representation of the form F = G [alpha (A, B), B, C] is called decomposition of F. Any loop-free circuit can be described by a sequence of decompositions. Efficient procedures for the detection of decompositions are given in terms of a convenient normal form representation of switching functions. Simplifications obtained by considering only the subclass of so called vertex-functions are discussed. The program carries out a systematic search through the admissable sequences of decompositions, using a lexicographic ordering, designed so that the most promising sequences are investigated first. Several further refinements are used to limit the search. The calculation yields a list of successively improved implementations, eventually including one of minimum cost. Examples are given of several circuits of minimum or near minimum cost derived by the program."
"Following are statements of several unsolved problems which may be of interest to researchers and students in the fields of switching theory or logical design, and in some cases to applied mathematicians with combinatorial leanings. Where pertinent, the most significant references to the literature are cited. Most of these problems have arisen from applications of switching theory to the design of digital circuits and networks. Not all of them are new."
"The functions considered are p-valued functions of n p-valued arguments; they may conveniently be represented by functions over the field Jp of integers modulo some prime p. It is noted that if every function can be uniquely written as a mod-p linear combination (equation 1) then (1) may be thought of equivalently as a canonical form or as a vector-space representation, with the bi forming a basis. This latter interpretation suggests the use of matrix multiplication to transform functions from one canonical form to another. The present paper is devoted to two main topics: 1. A consideration of various canonical forms and their analogies to the Taylor and Maclaurin expansions and the Lagrange interpolation formula of real-variable function theory. 2. A derivation of the matrices relating these forms and of expedient matrix-inversion techniques. The inversion of a pn times pn matrix is reduced, in general, to the inversion of n p times p matrices and in some cases simply to transposition or rotation of the matrix. These simplifications greatly facilitate the evaluation of 'power' series expansions for all inputs and the generation of power series from function tables."
"In 2.12 minutes an IBM 7090 program found four input tests (for an 8-input parity check circuit) whose outcome determines whether any one of 102 possible failures occurred. For any single-output combinational circuit, with no more than 35 input variables, the program computes the set of all inputs detecting a given failure - the essential novelty of the method. These sets, one for each failure, are then Processed to find a (small) subset of tests which detect any failure. The underlying method extends to the diagnosis of circuits with feedback."
"Following are statements of several unsolved problems which may be of interest to researchers and students in the fields of switching theory or logical design, and in some cases to applied mathematicians with combinatorial leanings. Where pertinent, the most significant references to the literature are cited. Most of these problems have arisen from applications of switching theory to the design of digital circuits and networks. Not all of them are new."
"This paper concerns switching networks which consist of n identical combinational logic cells interconnected from left to right by alpha communication channels into linear arrays. The synchronous cells in these networks have unit switching delays separating their receipts of external x and left-neighbor alpha inputs from their corresponding productions of external z and right-neighbor alpha outputs. Three basic types of alpha transient behavior are discussed for such networks. In the first type, all transients extend to no more than a bounded number of cells to the right of each x change; in the second, all transients propagate all the way to the right boundary of the network; and in the third, any transient may or may not propagate to the right boundary of the network depending upon the x sequence to the right of the x change in question. In all three cases, necessary and sufficient conditions are given on the type of alpha logic allowed. These conditions are expressed in terms of corresponding alpha state graph structure. The paper's main results hinge on certain properties of a new type of state subgraph, and on an indirect application of permutation groups to the state-pair transition problem. A section of examples proves that individual graphs can contain any mixture of the above three types of transient behavior."
"This paper concerns switching networks which consist of n identical combinational logic cells interconnected from left to right by alpha communication channels into linear arrays. The synchronous cells in these networks have unit switching delays separating their receipts of external x and left-neighbor alpha inputs from their corresponding productions of external z and right-neighbor alpha outputs. Three basic types of alpha transient behavior are discussed for such networks. In the first type, all transients extend to no more than a bounded number of cells to the right of each x change; in the second, all transients propagate all the way to the right boundary of the network; and in the third, any transient may or may not propagate to the right boundary of the network depending upon the x sequence to the right of the x change in question. In all three cases, necessary and sufficient conditions are given on the type of alpha logic allowed. These conditions are expressed in terms of corresponding alpha state graph structure. The paper's main results hinge on certain properties of a new type of state subgraph, and on an indirect application of permutation groups to the state-pair transition problem. A section of examples proves that individual graphs can contain any mixture of the above three types of transient behavior."
"Recounts the career and contributions of S. H. Caldwell."
"This paper concerns switching networks which consist of n identical combinational logic cells interconnected from left to right by \"alpha\" communication channels into linear arrays. The synchronous cells in these networks have unit switching delays separating their receipts of external x and left-neighbor alpha inputs from their corresponding productions of external z and right-neighbor alpha outputs. Three basic types of alpha transient behavior are discussed for such networks. In the first type, all transients extend to no more than a bounded number of cells to the right of each x change; in the second, all transients propagate all the way to the right boundary of the network; and in the third, any transient may or may not propagate to the right boundary of the network depending upon the x sequence to the right of the x change in question. In all three cases, necessary and sufficient conditions are given on the type of alpha logic allowed. These conditions are expressed in terms of corresponding alpha state graph structure. The paper's main results hinge on certain properties of a new type of state subgraph, and on an indirect application of permutation groups to the state-pair transition problem. A section of examples proves that individual graphs can contain any mixture of the above three types of transient behavior."
"This paper presents examples illustrative of practical problems encountered in the physical realization of a speed independent control for a high speed computer under construction at the University of Illinois. Three separate problems are described; each is related to an assumption on which the theory of speed independent circuits is based."
"This paper presents examples illustrative of practical problems encountered in the physical realization of a speed independent control for a high speed computer under construction at the University of Illinois. Three separate problems are described; each is related to an assumption on which the theory of speed independent circuits is based."
"Since the design of speed independent logic, like many other synthesis procedures, does not produce a unique topology, a design technique has been developed at Illinois to insure consistency throughout the control. The majority of the logical design problems were presented as information flow charts to be realized. All of the typical sections of flow charts were realized in a speed independent manner and these were used as building block to design the complete control. Speed independent logic is different from other asychronous logic in the use of reply signals to indicate the completion of a given operation. These reply signals are incorporated in the basic sequencing control logic to time operations. In addition to verifying that the desired operation has been performed, the use of replies eliminates the need for model flipflops or timing delays. In addition to the flow chart problems mentioned, basic logical realizations to the following problems were created: a selector control mechanism which would set the desired state and then give a reply; a memory element with a reply signal; and interlock systems to supervise the operation of two otherwise autonomous controls which exchange data."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"A neuron model is given whose properties adhere as closely as possible to the known properties of living neurons. Essential use is made of the concept that information to the nerve is in the form of pulse-rate information. Since this kind of information can assume more than two values, the model becomes a multivalued-logic device with a threshold. The output value of the neuron model is equal to the summation of its inputs, provided the summation is greater than the threshold. With this model, it is possible to construct networks which display a logically stable output although the elements comprising the net are not themselves logically stable. Two example networks are given that also demonstrate this property. The first example network is composed of unreliable model neurons whose thresholds are independently changing between two values. Criteria are given to aid in the selection of other networks of this type. The second example network is composed of model neurons which undergo a common shift of threshold, over nearly the entire threshold range. An algorithm for finding other networks of this type is given. The examples are given in three- and four-valued logic, but the matrix methods utilized are extensible to any n-value logic."
"A neuron model is given whose properties adhere as closely as possible to the known properties of living neurons. Essential use is made of the concept that information to the nerve is in the form of pulse-rate information. Since this kind of information can assume more than two values, the model becomes a multivalued-logic device with a threshold. The output value of the neuron model is equal to the summation of its inputs, provided the summation is greater than the threshold. With this model, it is possible to construct networks which display a logically stable output although the elements comprising the net are not themselves logically stable. Two example networks are given that also demonstrate this property. The first example network is composed of unreliable model neurons whose thresholds are independently changing between two values. Criteria are given to aid in the selection of other networks of this type. The second example network is composed of model neurons which undergo a common shift of threshold, over nearly the entire threshold range. An algorithm for finding other networks of this type is given. The examples are given in three- and four-valued logic, but the matrix methods utilized are extensible to any n-value logic."
"Some properties of neurons are discussed which must be considered in formulating models of their interaction. Among these are characteristics of nerve membranes. Under certain weak conditions on the parameters a neural element may behave as a logical element. With other values of the parameters the behavior can be approximated by a continuous model in which only an average output rate is taken into account as a function of the input. This latter approach is stressed here. Applications to a number of psychological problems are mentioned. Among these are a mechanism for response to curvature in movement, enhancement effects, flicker phenomena, discrimination, and detection of real and apparent movement."
"A neuron model is given whose properties adhere as closely as possible to the known properties of living neurons. Essential use is made of the concept that information to the nerve is in the form of pulse-rate information. Since this kind of information can assume more than two values, the model becomes a multivalued-logic device with a threshold. The output value of the neuron model is equal to the summation of its inputs, provided the summation is greater than the threshold. With this model, it is possible to construct networks which display a logically stable output although the elements comprising the net are not themselves logically stable. Two example networks are given that also demonstrate this property. The first example network is composed of unreliable model neurons whose thresholds are independently changing between two values. Criteria are given to aid in the selection of other networks of this type. The second example network is composed of model neurons which undergo a common shift of threshold, over nearly the entire threshold range. An algorithm for finding other networks of this type is given. The examples are given in three- and four-valued logic, but the matrix methods utilized are extensible to any n-value logic."
"We pursue in this paper some of the ideas discussed a year ago at the First Annual Symposium on Switching Theory and Logical Design. For a general discussion of threshold logic, and for definitions and motivations of the terms used below, the reader is referred to \"Single Stage Threshold Logic\" also published in this volume [13]. Also, a general survey of recent papers in the subject has been published elsewhere [14]. The main subject treated below is compound synthesis. The importance of such a study was shown last year: The family of functions of n arguments realizable in a single stage becomes a vanishing fraction of all switching functions of n arguments as n grows (for n = 7 the ratio is about 1028 1/2). We provide an algorithm for determining \"2-realizability\" -- reallzability with two threshold elements. The general approach produces a good solution in any case, but one guaranteed optimal only for 2-realizable functions. We use here a geometric terminology; this new language is also used in the second section, where \"higher\" necessary conditions for realizability are discussed. A conjecture that certain of these conditions might be sufficient is disproved; three related conditions are treated in a common language. The final section considers optimal integral single-stage realizations, and disproves a conjecture made last year: That such a realization gives equal arguments equal weights."
"We pursue in this paper some of the ideas discussed a year ago at the First Annual Symposium on Switching Theory and Logical Design. For a general discussion of threshold logic, and for definitions and motivations of the terms used below, the reader is referred to \"Single Stage Threshold Logic\" also published in this volume [13]. Also, a general survey of recent papers in the subject has been published elsewhere [14]. The main subject treated below is compound synthesis. The importance of such a study was shown last year: The family of functions of n arguments realizable in a single stage becomes a vanishing fraction of all switching functions of n arguments as n grows (for n = 7 the ratio is about 1028 1/2). We provide an algorithm for determining \"2-realizability\" -- reallzability with two threshold elements. The general approach produces a good solution in any case, but one guaranteed optimal only for 2-realizable functions. We use here a geometric terminology; this new language is also used in the second section, where \"higher\" necessary conditions for realizability are discussed. A conjecture that certain of these conditions might be sufficient is disproved; three related conditions are treated in a common language. The final section considers optimal integral single-stage realizations, and disproves a conjecture made last year: That such a realization gives equal arguments equal weights."
"Functional forms of the majority functions and a wider class of functions, called \"dual-comparable functions are discussed. Then, a necessary and sufficient condition for realizability of a majority function in a language of a functional form and miscellaneous properties of the majority functions are shown."
"A technique is presented for the design of single stage linear input threshold logic. Given the solution of a switching function as a set of windings on a magnetic core, the magnetomotive force is easily computed for each state of an n-variable binary truth table. The profile of the switching function is a graphical plot of the m.m.f. 's as a function of the states of the truth table. The truth function is evaluated by applying the threshold to the profile., Furthermore, the monotonic changes in the function caused by altering the weight of the bias are readily seen. The profile technique reverses the above process and builds up an nth-order hypothetical profile from lower order identical profiles which plecewise map the function, testing for each j, $2 \\leq j \\leq (n-1)$ whether four identical (j-1)-variable profiles can be \"fused\" to generate a (j+1)-variable profile which, itself maps the function piecewise. For any j if the test fails, the hypothetical (j+1)-variable profile cannot be realized with constant weights in the solution and the function is altered by deleting one or more true states. A means of describing the set of symmetry operations Which transform a given function to an arbitrarily defined basic form for inclusion in a table of switching circuits, and a table of all realizable five-variable switching circuits are briefly mentioned."
"It is shown that the problem of determining whether or not a given switching function is realizable with a single threshold gate can be reduced directly to that of determining the value of a two-person, zero-sum game. If this value is $\\gt$ 1/2, the function is realizable. If the value is $\\geq$ 1/2, the function cannot be realized. In the case of realizability the solution of the game gives the set of weights which accomplishes the realization. The method works equally well with functions having \"don't care\" conditions. When a function is not realizable a threshold gate is, nevertheless, defined together with a \"zone of uncertainty.\" This gate is such that for a given input, gamma, if the weighted sum is above this \"zone of uncertainty\" then F(gamma) = 1, within the zone F(gamma;) is uncertain, and below the zone F(gamma) = 0. The larger the value of the game the smaller this \"zone of uncertainty.\" A method for solving two-person zero-sum games is described and several examples are given."
"This paper derives a set of parameters which characterize functions realizable with single threshold devices. A Boolean function of n variables is a function on the vertices of an n-dimensional cube to 0 and 1. Considering the vertices as n-dimensional vectors, the ordinary vector sum (or the center of gravity) of the true vertices and the number of true vertices determine the realizability. It is proven that, if the characterizing vectors and the numbers of the true vertices of two functions are respectively equal, then either both functions are realizable or both are not realizable and, if one of the functions is realizable, then both functions are identical. Because of the uniqueness, these characterizing parameters can be used to label known threshold functions. The use of this label in conjunction with a procedure of reducing functions to a standard form provides a convenient means of ascertaining whether an arbitrary function is one of the known threshold functions. Some simple properties of the characterizing parameters are described: the characterizing parameters give directly the algebraic signs of, and the ordinal relations among, the weights to realize a threshold function; the characterizing vector is minimal with respect to a partial ordering. Results on a class of threshold functions are given."
"Many techniques have been developed for finding minimal sums and minimal products for Boolean functions. In all of these techniques, it is necessary to use either all of the fundamental products which must be included in the function and all of the unspecified fundamental products (\"don't cares\") or all of the fundamental products which must not be included in the function and all of the unspecified fundamental products. There is a class of problems which can be specified very simply, but in practice cannot be solved using existing techniques. This class consists of those problems for which almost all of the fundamental products are unspecified. These problems can be described by specifying the fundamental products to be included in the function- the 1-terms - and the fundamental products to be excluded from the function - the 0-terms. Techniques for forming minimal sums and products have been developed which require use of only the 1-terms and the 0-terms. This specification can be in either canonical or non-canonical form. In addition, a modification of this basic technique has been developed which permits the direct generation of only the essential prime implicants. The extension of the basic technique to multiple-output networks is also described."
"There are several reasons which make the use of a list processing type of computer programming language attractive for the coding of logical algorithms such as those which arise in truth function simplification. Among the most important programming advantages are ease of coding, improved use of computer storage, and a reduction of limitations on the number of variables which can be handled. Also of interest is the fact that the effectiveness of an algorithm implemented by means of a list processing system is much less dependent upon the characteristics of the particular computer used than is the case if instructions closer to basic machine language are employed. In combination with the ease of coding, this permits the evaluation of the relative effectiveness of several diverse algorithms or heuristic implementations of a single algorithm. This paper demonstrates the utility of the MIT 709 LISP I system in coding several procedures for determination of the prime implicants and irredundant forms of a truth function. The capabilities and limitations of these programs are discussed as is their application to evaluating the algorithms they represent."
"A method is described for converting a boolean expression to a disjunctive normal equivalent (two level OR-AND circuit) which is minimal under some criterion presented in advance, as for example, the number of clauses or the number of literals (equivalently, the number of OR's or the number of OR's and AND's together). The method employs the integer linear programming algorithm developed by R. E. Gomory and takes advantage of a new technique for obtaining the required integer matrix. From a boolean function Phi A = |aij| is defined by setting aij = 1 if prime implicant j covers canonical term i and aij = 0 otherwise. Then, for example, minimization of the expression Sigma jxj, subject to restrictions Sigma jaijxj $\\gg$ 1 and xj a non-negative integer, is equivalent to obtaining a normal form for Phi with a minimal number of clauses. In practice A can be advantageously reduced in size prior to the integer programming. This reduced matrix is obtainable fairly directly from an expression for Phi by a succession of simple operations. The method has been programmed for the IBM 704 and tested on several hundred problems. In speed and range of problems solvable, it compares favorably with minimization techniques presently in use."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Considerable effort in the past few years has been spent in the theoretical development of statistical decision theory.1 In applying this theory to pattern recognition two major problems become immediately apparent. The first problem is to decide which statistical properties are significant (and reasonably independent) for the patterns involved. The second is to choose the means of instrumentation in using these statistics for decision making."
"Probably the most common problem that arises when using magnetic materials concerns the prediction of the flux-time curve, for a particular core, given the current-time curve, or vice versa. Quite often, the magnetization is a periodic function of time, even in the case of the “d-c loop,” so that the ϕ-I curve is a closed loop. Therefore, it can be said that the original problem is to find the ϕ-I loop for the above conditions."
"Comparatively little work has been done on the topic of radiation damage in magnetic materials, and references concerning it will be cited herein only when pertinent to this paper. While our listing is limited, a bibliography of laboratory reports on the subject is available from the Battelle Memorial Institute. Much excellent engineering information and, in a few cases, some understanding of the mechanisms involved have grown out of the work which has been done, however, and our contribution is primarily an extension of previous investigations in the field to a few types of magnetic materials heretofore neglected."
"Efficiency and steady-state behavior of thermoelectric devices have been treated in the literature.1‐3 More recently, considerable work has been done on the transient behavior of incremental variations about a quiescent operating point.4 The procedure used avoids the inherent nonlinearities of the problem by creating a linearized mathematical model, and it can be extended to many problems of the small-signal case. However, there are certain problems which this method will not handle, the main one of which is large-signal dynamic behavior. A particularly important example is the problem of the start-up transient of a thermoelectric generator under load, which is discussed in this paper."
"A sealed reed relay embodies one or more sealed contacts, assembled with a coil and with shielding and supporting members. The distinctive feature is the construction of the sealed contact.1,2 In its simplest form, shown in Fig. 1, a pair of magnetic reeds, the contacting members, are sealed in a glass envelope, and are actuated by the magnetic field induced in them by the coil current."
"Catalogs of minimum networks for certain preferred types of building blocks greatly facilitate the logical design. Computational effort in producing such a catalog is modest and depends on the logical functions mechanized in the block. A simple octal coding scheme is introduced for identifying and indexing these functions. Included is a complete catalog of minimum networks for three inputs and one output, assembled from NOR circuits."
"Involved in solving a certain class of nonlinear systems with nonlinear derivatives, among other things, are the general recurrence relations presented herewith. The theory is applied to systems involving circuits and feedback systems. Incidental to the paper, a relationship is developed between circuits and feedback systems."
"One of the major objectives of the Component Specification Subcommittee of the Feedback Control Systems Committee is to promote improved definitions of the dynamic performance characteristics of the components which are useful to the engineer. In addition, the subcommittee assists in establishing guides which will yield more uniformity to the measurement and publication of such data. In accordance with this objective this report has been prepared on analog-to-digital converters."
"The operation of single-ended magnetic amplifiers with resistive load has been thoroughly explained in the literature and various types of analysis have been suggested.1‐5 However, no analytical method has yet been presented by which an input-output relation for single-ended magnetic amplifiers with inductive load can be obtained. In order to predict the value of the output corresponding to a given input, use of certain graphical techniques is introduced in reference 6, but this method fails to give any information about the transient response of the system."
"This paper will show the problems encountered in using silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCR) as control devices to vary the light output of tungsten lamp loads such as are commonly used in theater or studio stage lighting. A particular application using magnetic amplifier control of the SCR will be discussed as a lamp dimmer."
"The technology based on the saturable-core reactor, including magnetic amplifiers and other nonlinear magnetic devices,1 has grown rapidly in the past decade. This has stimulated development of commercially available polycrystalline magnetic materials, and prompted several studies of their properties going well beyond the mere collection of empirical, macroscopic data. A recent paper,2 an attempt to summarize the state of the art from the electrical engineering standpoint, indicated how changes in the magnetic state of a tape-wound core may take place. A lengthy bibliography included papers on the structure and arrangement of domain walls in tapes, calculations of their growth and propagation energies, and several papers showing microscopic domain patterns in isolated samples."
"The control of the reactor and associated plant units in the processing complex hypothesized by T. J. Williams10 and specifically, the dynamic control of this reactor to a desired set point, are treated in this paper. However, while the problem particularly concerns the control of the given reactor, the main purpose here is to outline a method of approach to the problem of dynamic control of industrial processes. Consequently, short cuts peculiar to the reactor control problem are ignored. In general, the approach is as follows: 1. Assumptions are made concerning criteria of operation and behavior of units of the plant other than the reactor proper. 2. From these assumptions the calculus of variations is used to develop control laws or strategies for each control variable. 3. Since these control laws cannot, in general, be integrated analytically, the prospect of using an “on-line” computer to integrate these laws numerically and consequently control the reactor is then examined."
"This paper describes a method for designing permanent magnets that are to be exposed to magnetic fields from external sources. Under such conditions, a widely-used procedure for magnet design cannot be relied upon to give accurate results. It it shown that this procedure does not conform generally to the basic equations of magnetism and, therefore, can be used only under limited circumstances. Engineers, not specialized in magnetics, are generally unware of these limitations."
"The basic principles of thermoelectric transport phenomena and those of heat transfer are used to derive an electric circuit analog of an arm of a thermoelectric couple where the thermal conductances are represented by electric conductances, and where the rates of input heat (Peltier, Joule, and Thomson heat) and the electric power output are represented by current sources. The equivalent thermal circuit is shown to satisfy the transport equations of one of the arms of a thermoelectric couple."
"Toroidal magnetic cores using ferrite materials have been applied extensively as 2-state logic and memory devices.1‐4 For more complex logical operation, multiaperture ferrite cores have been used.5–8 In most of the studies of flux reversal phenomena in these cores only two final flux states have been considered, representing either of the two saturated states of the core or a leg of the core. Multiaperture cores are also capable of continuous modulation of a-c power. An example is the transfluxor, 9-11 a 2-aperture core, in which the magnitude of the output is controlled by a transient setting pulse applied to its control winding. This device is able to operate at a continuously-controllable level because the amount of magnetic flux available about one aperture for the transfer of power can be controlled by the particular magnetic state established about the other aperture."
"For approximately 30 years, the aircraft industry has been regulating the output of d-c generators by a carbonpile regulator which employs an electromechanical principle to adjust the field part on d-c generators. The advent of transistors and related solid-state devices, with their attendant high-current capabilities, has made possible the design of a solid-state device equivalent to the carbon pile regulator. This new device offers a number of distinct advantages: 1. Lighter weight. 2. Smaller power dissipation. 3. Greater ruggedness, i.e., capability to withstand environmental conditions such as shock and vibration. 4. Yields equal, or better, regulating characteristics."
"Recently developed large computers use multiple memory units and buffering between memory and processing to achieve a computation rate higher than the memory rate. In such cases computer speed is limited by the basic adders employed. Because these adders represent a small fraction of the total machine cost, it is economical to use the fastest parallel design available. Checking, if provided, should be accomplished in such a way that the add-cycle time is not increased. This implies parallel rather than serial operation of adder and checking logic. In this paper, the logical design of a 24-bit binary adder developed for the IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) Stretch computer project is described. Direct-coupled type logic is used and high performance is achieved by means of a parallel design employing fast switching devices. Checking employs a combination of parity and duplicate-carry logic for single-error detection."
"A series of “extraction algorithms” are presented that are applicable to the design of a wide class of combinational circuits. A special operation, the #-product, is introduced for carrying out these algorithms. Complete algorithms for the design of minimal and near-minimal 2-level AND-OR circuits are given, utilizing the extraction algorithms and the #-product. (These algorithms have been programmed for the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) 704 and are available through the SHARE Library. Data are shown on the usage of these programs by IBM circuit designers.) Indication is also given as to how the extraction algorithms may be applied to a broader class of problems, namely to the design of disjunctions of nonsingular circuits."
"Solution of many switching problems is facilitated by trigger circuits with lower triggering threshold energy requirements than are usual in conventional monostable multivibrator circuits. Important applications are to be found, for instance, in pulse-height analyzers and similar circuits for measurements in nuclear research, time modulation, and binary memory systems."
"This paper presents the theoretical aspects of the approximate representation of an irregular curve with linear segments and discusses some of the applications of such a representation. An irregular curve, as used here, means one which cannot be expressed with a compact equation on easy inspection."
"CRYOGENICS is a science concerned with the very-low-temperature environment, extending from a high of 77 K (degrees Kelvin), or —196 C (degrees centigrade), where liquid nitrogen (N) boils at standard pressure, down to absolute zero (0 K or —273 C). This region has come to be associated with rockets, many of which carry large quantities of liquefied hydrogen (H) and oxygen (O) as propellants."
"A description of different types of eddy-current clutches is given. The difficulties encountered in designing these are explained. A method to predict the torque-speed characteristic of eddy-current devices based on dimensional analysis and model theory is developed. Experimental data show the calculations made with the method are sufficiently accurate for engineering purposes."
"A system for generating precise frequency power from an unregulated shaft is described. The system comprises a high-frequency variable-speed generator, a semiconductor frequency changer, an output filter, and a voltage and frequency regulator. The semiconductor frequency changer employs silicon p-n-p-n switches as the power handling components. The operation of a typical frequency changer is described, and an oscillogram is presented which verifies the performance. Also, the ability of the frequency changer to supply a lagging reactive load is illustrated. The generator described is a brushless Secsyn type. The rotor of this machine has no rotating exciting windings and is of tubular steel construction which permits very-high-speed operation. This results in a lightweight system. Voltage regulation is accomplished by controlling both the frequency changer and the excitation of the generator. This improves speed of response. The frequency regulator is open-loop with a frequency transient that is no more than wave distortion. The accuracy of the system frequency is determined entirely by the accuracy of the frequency reference which can be as high as 0.001%. Application of the system to emergency power systems, auxiliary power systems, and secondary power systems is mentioned."
"THE ELECTRIC MOTOR is an important accessory in the functioning of modern aircraft. Motors like all other accessories must be tailored to the job to be done and, because of unknown factors of application, aircraft design, to be successful, cannot tolerate wastefully large and bulky accessories, nor can it tolerate the risk of plane and mission with equipment that is undersized for its task."
"ONE of the objectives of an aircraft exterior lighting system is to assist in the avoidance of aircraft collisions. Lights can do this in clear weather by attracting the attention of an observer, and by presenting visual information which will enable the observer to take evasive action. There is considerable lack of agreement as to the fundamental requirements for an exterior lighting system which will provide the highest level of conspicuity. It is generally agreed that no single direction has a monopoly on collision courses. Red flashing anti-collision beacon lights are now being provided to attract the attention of the observer. Red, green, and white navigation lights provide the observer with the information required to determine the position or orientation of the aircraft, and therefore its direction of travel, so that an avoidance maneuver may be executed."
"IN 1943, Hall proposed the integral-of-squared-error (ISE) criterion as an indirect measure of the speed of response (to a step input) of servomechanism systems.1 This index of performance was proposed as an analytical function of the servomechanism parameters which would be minimized by adjustment of the system parameters, the relationship between the parameters and the ISE being less complex than that between the parameters and the speed of response itself. As a result of Hall's work the ISE was tabulated as a function of system constants for systems whose error function is of tenth order or less.2,3"
"THE OPTIMIZATION of linear systems with single input and output terminals has already been treated in considerable detail. Booton demonstrated that the impulse response of such systems satisfies a modified Wiener-Hopf linear-integral equation.1 The practical solution of such equations was materially enhanced by Shinbrot, who demonstrated that relatively simple closed-form solutions could be obtained for suitable approximations to the associated correlation functions.2,3"
"Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of... Remember that time is money."
"The use of a stored-program digital computer as an element in a control system raises a number of problems which have not previously been encountered in the control field. This paper is concerned with the effectiveness of the computer program in performing its assigned task (of satisfying the precision and dynamic response requirements of the system) with a computer of minimum capability. The concept of information-handling efficiency is utilized as a measure of program effectiveness and is related to the problem of minimizing the computer cycle times. A procedure is described in detail for developing an optimum program schedule for a multivariable control system."
"THE PROBLEM of transferring industrial loads from a preferred source to an emergency source has become more important as an increasing number of electric motors are being used to drive critical loads. The previous practice of having turbines drive these critical loads has, as the trend shows, shifted to replacement of turbines by motors. In those cases it is desirable that the continuity of electrical service should be such that an unscheduled shutdown of this type of load be practically eliminated."
"THE NATURAL GAS transmission industry has been an industry of rapid growth. The physical expansion has been paralleled by rapid technological developments and, at the moment, there is considerable interest in computer-controlled systems. There is a general understanding of the form of such systems evidenced by the many articles and publications dealing with the subject. This understanding is based on experience with automatic sequence and feedback control of individual compressors or stations and with supervisory control of several stations from a central point. Relieving the central dispatcher of his routine duties through the use of a computer to collect and process data and make decisions is not difficult conceptually. In this respect, the stage is set for the introduction of computer-controlled systems."
"THE METHOD of plotting the locus of roots of the characteristic equation of a linear feedback control system has been essentially a manual point-by-point calculation. The basic principles for plotting the root locus were first developed by Evans. The details for analytically calculating some portions of the curves and the procedures for finding points on the curves by a trial-and-error procedure are found in many books in the area of feedback controls. One source for this material is reference 1. It is also possible to calculate points on the root locus by equations developed in reference 2. These equations can be set up on a digital computer, if one is available."
"A NEW METHOD of direct synthesis of a series compensator for a linear feedback control system is presented. The method permits the designer to satisfy simultaneously specifications on the location of the complex closed-loop poles and on steady-state behavior, taking into account constraints on the open-loop pole and zero configurations."
"THE PRESENCE of a sampler in a data transmission link necessarily introduces an error because of frequency aliasing, and a problem solved in the present paper is how to minimize the mean-square value of this error by linear filtering before and after sampling. An equation for determining the least-mean-square value of this error is also derived."
"IN the application of motors for specific duty cycles, driving an arbitrary time varying load, affected by nonlinear damping and dry friction, the time response is often quite difficult to determine analytically. In this paper a method is presented that yields a quick graphical answer which avoids all the difficulties that appear in the analytical treatment of the problem."
"The term “inductive load” is often seen in connection with the ratings of contacts. At times an attempt has been made to eliminate some of the ambiguity associated with this term by using a value of circuit “time constant” or “L/R ratio,” to specify the type of load which the contacts might be required to interrupt. When there are no iron or eddy currents present in the load inductance, this type of description is sufficient; but when the load consists of iron-core inductances, this type of description is not sufficient to describe the effects of the circuit inductance on circuit interruption. An interesting discussion on this subject can be found in reference 1. This paper will attempt to show why further factors must be considered when iron is present in an inductance, and will propose a method of specifying the characteristics of an inductive load. With the aid of such specifications, an equivalent test load for any type of inductive device might be built with some degree of confidence that the test load-interruption characteristics will be similar to the actual load-interruption characteristics."
"A SOLUTION of the problem of determining a filter for the optimum recovery - In a mean-square sense - Of sampled data has been presented previously.1‾6 Examples for the application of this solution include radar tracking systems and systems where measuring instruments provided values at discrete time-instants. These are cases in which the data are available only in sampled form. However, there are important situations involving sampled data which are not included in this category. The case which is considered here is the one in which a continuous signal, consisting of data and noise, is to be sampled. In such a case, it is shown that the signal should be filtered before sampling. An expression is derived for the optimum “prefilter” as specified by a mean-square-error criterion, and examples are presented for illustration purposes."
"QUANTIZATION, or round-off, occurs whenever physical quantities are represented numerically. The values of measurements may be designated by integers corresponding to their nearest numbers of units. Round-off errors have values between ±1/2 unit, and can be made small by choice of the basic unit. It is apparent, however, that the smaller the size of the unit, the larger will be the numbers required to represent the same physical quantities and the greater will be the difficulty and expense in storing and processing these numbers. Often, a balance has to be struck between accuracy and economy. In order to establish such a balance, it is necessary to have a means of evaluating quantitatively the distortion resulting from rough quantization. The analytical difficulty arises from the inherent nonlinearities of the quantization process."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"OVER A PERIOD of several years, a number of transformers and induction regulators supplying energy to aluminum potlines and similar installations have been damaged by insulation failures; the failures were apparently due to abnormal overvoltages. The transformers used for these applications usually step down from 13.8 kv to a secondary voltage in the range 600 to 900 volts depending upon the installation. A basic impulse level of at least 40 kv is normal for the secondary winding; insulation failures occurring on these windings are an indication of the severity of the voltage transients. An excellent photograph showing typical coil damage appears in a paper by Pope, et al.1"
"THE COMMERCIAL introduction of the silicon-controlled rectifier in early 1958 disclosed the possibilities of its use in many applications usually performed by thyratrons, magnetic amplifiers, and rotating amplifiers.1,2 One such application, which so far has not been thoroughly explored, is the use of these rectifiers as the power amplifier in a d-c servo system. This paper presents the results of designing, building, and testing a servo system which incorporates the controlled rectifiers as the power amplifier for the d-c servomotor. The final aim is to evaluate the performance of the controlled rectifier in this application."
"This paper describes the circuit arrangements, with appropriate analyses, by which two or three saturable reactors may be used to supply a 3-phase load. The output voltages of the devices are constant-frequency 3-phase, almost sinusoidal sources which may be smoothly and continuously varied from an almost balanced positive sequence to an almost balanced negative sequence by variation of the saturable-reactor control currents."
"THE NEED for an adaptive control system occurs when the parameters involved in the design of the system change in time. For small variations, conventional feedback configurations can sometimes reduce the sensitivity of the output to these changes to acceptable values, but large variations of the parameters require a more flexible system. The newer adaptive point of view in designing a control system can, in general, allow for changes in input signal characteristics, plant characteristics, and disturbance characteristics with a minimum amount of a priori knowledge. It appears that a general distinction has been made between adaptive controls1,2 and optimalizing (optimizing) controls3,4 although the characteristics are not always distinct. A recent note5 has suggested a possible classification according to whether there is an original feedback loop or not."
"KNOWLEDGE of the magnitude of the electrodynamic force occurring at closed electric contacts carrying high current is important to the design of reliable contacting devices. Past work in this area by Holm1 has shown that current passing through a contact surface is constricted to flow through very small contacting spots, and that this constricted current flow causes a repulsion force to act on the contacts. Further contributions to the theory and the calculation of this force have been made through studies at the Cutler-Hammer Laboratories in Milwaukee, Wis.,2 the progress of which is reported in this paper."
"THIS PAPER is a discussion of the principles of steady-state heat transfer as they apply to the field of electric heating and, as such, no solutions are derived, but rather the governing differential equations are presented and references containing the solutions for various boundary conditions are cited. In most of the references given, the work was concerned with the temperature distribution in electric coils or other electric apparatus wherein the generation of heat was an unwanted phenomenon and not as is considered here, the prime function of the device. However, since these are the solutions to basic differential equations, they are directly applicable to any other body for which the basic equation and the boundary conditions hold."
"NUMERICAL POSITIONING controls for machine tools have in recent years demonstrated their ability to effect considerable economies in many industries; hence, further applications of these controls to machines may be expected."
"THE PERFORMANCE required of new cranes and hoists is becoming regularly more demanding; specifications now call for capabilities not previously available. Safety and dependability have always been of primary importance in hoisting work, and to these requirements are now often added a wide speed range for the rapid movement of light loads or the empty hook; quick, smooth acceleration and deceleration of all loads with regenerative braking to reduce service on the mechanical brake; effective torque limitation, both steady-state and transient, to limit the mechanical strains on the entire structure as well as to prevent excessive overloading; controlled slow speeds essentially independent of load; and load suspension or extremely fine inching for the positioning of sensitive loads. All these characteristics and more must be furnished within the framework of a rugged, simple system requiring little or no maintenance."
"CONTROL SYSTEMS which are so designed that the control system outputs become identical with the control system inputs in the minimum amount of time are known as “time optimal-control systems.” In other words, a time optimal-control system is one which, given the final desired state, moves from the initial state to the final state in the minimum time. The final state may be the origin of the phase space in which the state of a control system is represented by a point. In general, however, the desired final state will be a function of time. Since essential complications enter into the problem when the desired state of a control system is a function of time, only the problem with the origin as the desired state will be considered in this paper."
"WHEN a-c operated contactors are controlled by push buttons located at some distance from the contactor, the wire-to-wire and wire-to-ground capacitance of these control leads may be sufficient to prevent the contactor from dropping out when the off button at the remote station is depressed."
"IN THE DESIGN of feedback control systems, the ultimate goal is the synthesis of a system to perform according to prescribed specifications. This paper develops a method of synthesis for feedback control systems which is partially based upon previous work in network theory and sampled-data systems. Synthesis is realized in the complex plane by obtaining the open-loop-system transfer function from the desired closed-loop input and output time functions. Specifications are introduced in terms of the system response to a deterministic input such as a step or ramp function. A plot of the desired closed-loop transient response is made which is then sampled at equal time intervals."
"A third-order switching servomechanism is investigated that operates in positive feedback for the first part of the transient response period and is switched into negative feedback for the last part. The optimum switching condition is determined for third-order systems with both a step position input and a step velocity input. The analysis is extended to higher-order systems. Experimental results of an analog computer study are presented."
"THE MOST commonly available adjustable speed drives of today use the d-c motor. The speed can be controlled by armature voltage variation, field current variation, or a combination of both. Where the load torque is essentially constant throughout the speed range, armature voltage control is used. The second method, motor field adjustment, is most economical where the load power is substantially constant over a speed range not wider than 4 to 6. When an extremely wide speed range is desired with reduced torque at the higher speeds, the combination of both armature and field control gives good results. At low speeds, the motor field is usually maintained at a constant level and the motor speed is varied by changing the armature voltage. When rated armature voltage is reached, the speed can be further increased by weakening the field. The armature voltage, in any case, may be supplied from a Ward-Leonard generator, magnetic amplifiers, tubes, or semiconductors."
"A WIDESPREAD FEELING exists throughout the automatic control field that the art has matured to the point where standardization of performance specifications should be considered. In fact, during a 2-year study in which contact was made with approximately 100 control system vendors, only once were the authors told that the problem was unimportant. This paper reports on the first portion of the study: linear systems. The specifications discussed fall naturally into three groups: frequency domain, time domain, and generalized performance indices. Recommendation of a nonconflicting set of specifications is made from these groups. In addition, a discussion of statistical specifications and recommendations on data presentation are given."
"IGNITRON TUBES have been applied as the basic rectifying device in electronic power converters for many years. The fields of application have been both broad and varied. New applications and new requirements on old-type applications stipulate more stringent performance characteristics and an even greater reliability than ever before required."
"ALMOST ALL OF THE WORK published on the synthesis of optimum nonlinear bang-bang or relay control systems has dealt with the case where the controlled system is characterized by real roots. For such systems there have been numerous papers devoted to the derivation of the optimum controller. Outside of Bushaw's work1,2 there has not been much in the literature on the explicit definition of the optimum nonlinear controller in the phase plane, or phase space, in the case where the controlled system is characterized by complex roots. Even in the case of Bushaw's work, the solution for the controller is presented only for regulator-type systems and his solution is not applicable to servomechanism-type systems. These points are discussed in more detail in the first part of this paper. There have been other very fine contributions to the literature on this problem.3-5 However, in these contributions the question of the complete optimum nonlinear controller as defined in the phase plane or space is still left unsolved."
"IN part I of this paper1 methods for the synthesis of the optimum nonlinear bang-bang control system with complex roots was presented. In this, the scope and utility of this synthesis are verified by analytical studies of the dynamic response capabilities of this systems."
"Continuous-process machines are employed in many different industries. Material processed on these machines must be handled, moved, and stored. One of the most commonly used packages is the reel, or roll, because material from this kind of package can be quickly unwrapped, processed, and then rewound. Several kinds of electric drives have been designed to perform the operation of rewinding material. This paper will deal with one particular class of constant-tension rewind drives. Direct-current motor drives are widely used for constant-tension rewind stands in which the roll being wound is driven by a motor attached to its shaft. When the d-c motor is controlled by varying its field, it exhibits an interesting property which allows for very economical drive design as well as economical machine design. One of the limitations of d-c motor rewind stands had been the limited speed range that is possible with field control of d-c motors. This paper will discuss a means for extending the range of a d-c winder drive."
"THE GROUNDING of supporting structures and enclosures for d-c power circuits and apparatus has been a controversial subject ever since metal-enclosed power rectifiers and switch-gear came into use in the electrochemical and other industries. Many users of d-c equipment naturally followed the well-established a-c practice of solidly grounding enclosures through a low-resistance conductor. Relatively few of these equipments included sensitive grounding protective relays. Many cases of serious injury and damage due to ground faults that might have been avoided by the use of grounding protective relays are recorded in an earlier paper.1"
"IT HAS long been recognized that the efficiency of a large rectifier unit cannot be accurately determined by input-output power measurements. Errors of measurement may be as great or greater than the losses in high efficiency equipments. These errors are aggravated to an unknown degree by the distortion of current and voltage waveshapes inherent in rectifier operation."
"MILD STEEL has been the usual basic structural material for subway-car strength members with aluminum generally utilized for decorative or low-stressed sections."
"PREDICTIVE control is used in this report to describe a form of automatic control in which the manipulated variable operating the controlled system is actuated by an estimate of the error which will exist at some future time. Repeated estimations of the future error are obtained by predicting ahead, on a fast-time base, both the reference and the controlled variable as well as some of their lower-order derivatives. Data smoothing and prediction of the reference may be required, and use of a model of the controlled system is needed. By virtue of being able to use fast switching at high energy levels and continually predicting a new value of future error, it is possible to obtain some of the desirable features of the bang-bang “optimum“ control as well as the dynamic programming concepts."
"MANY LARGE materials handling machines and processing machines require smooth, accurate stopping. In the past, accurate stopping has usually been accomplished by the use of hydraulic brakes. Recently, an electromagnetic brake has been developed to perform the same functions and to overcome some disadvantages of hydraulic brakes, such as the need for hydraulic lines and slow release of parking torque by a foot-operated hydraulic pump. The electromagnetic brake can be readily controlled from small pilot devices and can be fed through collector bars so that the operator need not be on the same structure as the drive and brake. Thus, the new brake offers increased flexibility in application."
"IN CONTROL SYSTEMS, elements are frequently used whose “gain” is a function of variables outside of the primary control loop. For example, the gain of an armature controlled servomotor depends on the motor field current. The gain of a hydraulic valve (with respect to flow rate as output and valve displacement as input) depends on the static head on the valve. The effectiveness of a control surface in turning a body moving in a turbulent medium varies with time: The gain from control surface deflection to turning torque may be assumed to vary randomly with time."
"A CONTROL ENGINEER usually begins the design of a sampled-data feedback control system with two sets of data. These are the fixed components that the system must include and the specifications which the final system must meet. The fixed components, which will be referred to as the plant, are inherent in the process to be controlled and in many cases are not subject to change. The commonest specifications are generally in terms of time-response and may include rise time, peak overshoot, and steady-state position errors. In general, the plant will not, of itself, satisfy the specifications; hence, the designer's problem is to select such additional components as will produce the desired system. These components, called the compensator, may then give the final system the form shown in Fig. 1, where Gp(s) represents the transfer function of the plant and Gc(s) is the compensator. Determination of this compensator is the central problem in feedback control system design."
"THE USEFULNESS of statistical techniques in the synthesis of optimum control systems has been amply justified,1‾7 and a voluminous literature exists on the subject. A wide class of such synthesis problems are those where the basic circuit is fixed and the designer must choose values for a finite number of parameters. It is usually assumed that these parameters relate to components which possess exactly their nominal values. In such cases, once a design criterion has been established, the optimization procedure is straightforward."
"PARALLEL-T AND bridged-T R-C (resistance-capacitance) networks are often used for the lead compensation of carrier-type servomechanisms. Presently available design methods require the use of cumbersome charts and do not readily permit evaluation of the relative gain. This paper carries out an analysis based on considerations of realizability. For each type of structure a realizability curve is determined. The analysis leads to equations relating the zero-frequency gain of the R-C networks to that of the R-L-C (where L is inductance) resonant damper. Finally, a very simple design method is derived, based on the conventional low-pass prototype, with no curves required."
"THIS PAPER attempts to focus on a number of areas in nonlinear differential equations which appear to be of heightened interest today."
"This paper introduces a technique for the synthesis of nonlinear discrete-data control systems to fulfill an optimal performance criterion. The synthesis procedure is developed by use of the state-transition method. Digital compensation is designed for the nonlinear system to have deadbeat performance. The technique presented permits the use of a digital computer to carry out the design of optimum control."
"ALUMINUM-CLAD aluminum-silicon-alloy bonded nuclear fuel elements are fusion-welded over the exposed brazed joint to assure a watertight closure. As is common with some brazed joints, there are porosities and pipes in the braze which may provide a path for the cooling water to attack the uranium metal. Work with the fusion welds has disclosed that the braze metal was not alloying with the cladding into a homogeneous weld alloy. In many instances the braze metal was continuous from the parent braze metal to the surface of the weld. Within limits of normal welding speeds but a very small change in alloying occurred with changing welding speed. Current programming was desirable to improve weld quality. This controlled the weld width as the weld progressed and raised the temperature of the metal to be melted. The welding power supply in use had a manually operated mechanical current control which could not be readily converted to current programming."
"IN MANY PRACTICAL situations when frequency-domain information about a process is required, the input is not sinusoidal and of a constant-frequency steady-state nature. For example, it may be necessary to obtain the frequency response of the changing linear plant in an adaptive control system at a specified time. A problem arises in that the plant is controlling some quantity and usually cannot be disturbed by measurement devices. Consequently, the measurement must be made using only input and output information of the linear plant, which is not usually sinusoidal in form. The problem then is one of obtaining frequency-domain information about the system from the given input.1"
"IF AN ENGINEER is presented with a general linear system, a “black box,” let us say, having an input and an output, the first question he will usually ask is: What is (or should be) the relationship between its input and output? This is a question which can be answered in many ways. One can determine or prescribe the response of the box to impulses or step functions or sine waves, and from these calculate the response to any input, regardless of its character. The concept here is essentially that of impedance, a term which may be defined in a variety of ways, but the central idea of all the definitions is that, in some fashion, the general relationship between the stimulus and the response of a system is specified."
"Optimum control of linear multivariable processes is the concern of this paper. The optimum control problem is studied via the state-variable concept and the dynamic-programing technique. A linear multivariable control system is shown to have optimum performance with respect to a quadratic performance criterion, if both the controller and the estimator are independently designed in an optimum manner."
"LINEAR SYSTEMS can be designed having very fast responses with essentially deadbeat performance by the inclusion of compensating loops which are switched in and out of the system as required. Fast response is obtained by using an unstable or nearly unstable uncompensated system to provide the desired rise time. Deadbeat performance is obtained by designing the compensation loops so that they provide an overdamped system when the compensation is switched in. Selection of the real roots for the overdamped system is based on the desired location of the eigenvectors in the phase space. A switching computer is required which connects the compensation loops as the state point reaches a hyperplane which is related to the eigenvector in a special way. The computer is readily realized from derivative signals and considerable engineering simplification is permissible in both the compensation design and the switching computer because of the topological nature of the phase portrait in the vicinity of properly chosen eigenvectors. Experimental results verify the theoretical conclusions."
"THIS PAPER describes the development of a theory of optimum synthesis for a class of linear multiports, which are characterized by the presence of one or more periodically actuated switching elements (with finite dwell times), which multiplex the transmission channels, and by input signals that are generated by stationary random processes. The theory presented is also applicable to the problem of optimum synthesis of linear multiports in which periodic carriers of arbitrary waveshape are amplitude-modulated by the signals being processed; however, the multiplexing problem, in which the carriers are described by"
"LOCOMOTIVE REPAIR costs are the largest single item of road or line-haul locomotive operating expense. They are discussed without reference to other operating costs, except depreciation, which should be closely related."
"THE CONCEPT of automation in the railroad industry is not a new one. It has been applied for some time in Centralized Traffic Control (CTC), for example, and in the operation of classification yards. However, its application to the remote control of train operations is of more recent date."
"CONTACT wire wear is important to the operator of an electric railroad, primarily because it contributes to the maintenance cost of the catenary system. The prudent operator will, therefore, periodically check the condition of the wire so that replacements may be planned in an orderly manner before breaks occur. The data presented here are based largely on results of such a survey, made on The Pennsylvania Railroad in 1958, which covers approximately 94% of the electrified road track miles. Yard tracks were not included."
"THE CONCEPT OF a magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) energy converter presents a means of converting some of the kinetic and thermal energy of a plasma directly into useful electrical work. The principle upon which its operation is based is that of passing a moving plasma through a transverse magnetic field, thereby inducing an electromotive force (emf) in the plasma. By completing the circuit through an external load, a current is then permitted to flow. The analysis of such a device is complicated by the fact that the working fluid is a compressible medium, subject not only to the laws of compressible fluid flow, but to the laws of electromagnetism as well."
"NUMEROUS RAILROADS in the United States are in economc distress. This paper presents a modern technological package, including railway electrification, which will permanently lower a large segment of their operating and maintenance costs. Their current competitive economic situation is outlined and their position is reviewed. The poor earnings of the railroads in the northeast sector — ICC (Interstate Commerce Commission) Eastern District — relative to those in the other sectors — ICC Western District — are shown."
"IN MANY practical engineering problems the sampling intervals for the system are not fixed. They are actually random variables. For example, in radar with nominal scanning period T, occasionally some samples of the return signals are absent because of noise or other interference. It is referred to as the “missed sample” problem in radar."
"TRANSPORT LAG in sampled-data control systems influences their stability. If this influence is studied as the function of transport lag and other system parameters, the design procedure becomes cumbersome. This paper, which applies Mitrović's algebraic method,1-3 presents a new way to analyze and synthesize various sampled-data control systems such as the cyclic variable-rate, multirate, and those with nonsynchronized samplers. Other related problems are greatly facilitated by this method also."
"IN THE ANALYTICAL DESIGN of high-speed electrohydraulic servomechanisms, an accurate mathematical model of the valve-actuator mechanism is generally helpful in determining the controller and system configuration required to achieve the desired over-all performance. During past years, various forms of electrohydraulic valves and actuator mechanisms have been realized. Detailed descriptions of these devices can be found in a book by Blackburn et al.1 Most previous works on the analysis of these systems have resorted to linearization techniques.2,3 Recently, Butler and Turnbull presented detailed analysis of simplified nonlinear models.4,5 Also, Zaborszky and Harrington derived describing functions for both single and two-stage electrohydraulic valves, which permit analytical design in the frequency-domain.6‾9 The limitations of linearized models are discussed by Rausch.10"
"NOISE AND ITS EFFECT on system performance now can be predetermined by a designer if he uses the theory advanced herein. An external signal is introduced to stabilize a nonlinear feedback system in a state of self-sustained oscillation, but the introduction should be made at a sufficiently high frequency and at a convenient point in the loop. This phenomenon, first introduced by R. Olden-burger, one of the authors, was termed “signal stabilization.”1"
"SEVERAL methods1‾7 have been developed for finding the steady-state sinusoidal response of closed-loop systems containing nonlinear elements. Most of these methods require either unnecessarily severe assumptions or long iterative procedures. This paper presents a graphical procedure for finding the frequency response of a large class of systems for which the describing function provides an adequate representation for the nonlinear elements. Attention is restricted to frequency-insensitive zero-memory nonlinear elements. The method is direct, requiring only an understanding of the point of view, and it can be extended to cover systems containing more than one nonlinear element."
"PRESENCE OF HYSTERESIS or hereditary types of nonlinearities leads to small-signal destabilization in servomechanisms and other feedback control systems and produces small-amplitude sustained oscillations or chattering, particularly when precision requirements make necessary the use of a high loop gain. Some safeguards against this undesirable characteristic are therefore presented here."
"NOWADAYS, A DESIGNER is faced with myriad electric power requirements - from milliwatts to megawatts - defined by new weapon and space systems concepts. At his disposal, fortunately, are numerous and varied potential sources of electricity. There is renewed interest and activity in fuel cells and thermionic and thermoelectric converters, for example. These, together with improved batteries and rotating generators driven by assorted prime movers, present many possibilities that want consideration for a given system. The particular selection, of course, is governed by an optimization study, covering required power level, mission time, and desired characteristics."
"DURING the past two decades a great deal of material has appeared in the literature concerning the analysis and synthesis of nonlinear systems. In reference 1, a great many of these techniques are reviewed and it is quite evident that these methods are highly specialized pertaining to particular problems. Some are linearization techniques and others are approximations, sometimes quite restricted. Each has its particular value and usefulness. Despite the number of papers, there seems to be no underlying or unifying theory connecting them."
"THE DESIGN OF feedback compensation for feedback control systems is a subject which is treated in the technical literature as an undertaking incidental to the design of specific systems."
"ONE OF THE vital components of a missile is the device used to position the thrust directors or control surfaces. In addition to satisfying rather stringent dynamic performance requirements, this device must be highly reliable. Missile designers favor hydraulically operated actuators because of their high dynamic performance capabilities, relatively low weight, and small size.1 However, the hydraulic actuators have still not reached the desired reliability because of sensitivity to dirt particles and other factors."
"The widespread use of measurement transducers producing direct-voltage output signals has led to extensive development of analog-to-digital converters, including digital voltmeters. This situation has resulted from the fact that the information output of measurement devices, if handled in reduction processes in other than digital form, progressively deteriorates in accuracy."
"Thirteen features characterize the experimental 100-line electronic PABX (private automatic branch exchange), developed at Automatic Electric Laboratories, Inc., Northlake, Ill., a subsidiary of General Telephone & Electronics, Inc. Primarily, the development aims were to gain design and operating experience with electronic switching telephone systems and to test trunking to and from a Strowger step-by-step central office."
"Since the end of World War II, this country, particularly in the larger metropolitan areas, has experienced the greatest business building construction boom in history. This tremendous increase in new construction has, per se, contributed materially to the correspondingly phenomenal expansion in telephone facilities required to satisfy the increasing customer demand throughout the country, a demand which continually calls for newer, better, and speedier telephone service at prices within reasonable reach of existing levels."
"Most textbooks about transmission lines derive differential equations pertaining to physical phenomena and, after suitable solutions are found, immediately define or describe several parameters: (1) the propagation function and its components, the attenuation and phase shift functions; (2) the velocity of propagation; and (3) the characteristic impedance. Although others exist, the characteristics mentioned are of fundamental importance and interest, and hereinafter will be referred to in the collective sense as the basic parameters."
"In the past decade there has been a rapid growth in communication facilities designed to transmit television (TV) signals relatively short distances over coaxial cables. These systems handle six or more video signals which amplitude-modulate (AM) r-f (radio-frequency) carriers in the 8- to 220-mc (megacycle) range. The associated audio signals frequency-modulate (FM) r-f sound carriers whose rest frequencies are 4.5 mc away from their associated picture carriers. These systems are used for industrial, educational, and entertainment purposes, and descriptions of many of them have appeared in the literature.1‾3 This paper will discuss two problems that affect the design of any closed-circuit TV system: thermal noise and intermodulation products created by amplifier non-linearity."
"The purpose of this paper is to discuss the transmission network of a private automatic branch exchange (PABX) which is undergoing operational testing at Automatic Electric Laboratories, Inc., in Northlake, Ill. It was designed to use space-division transmission and time-division common control."
"Recently completed, after 15 months' work by members of Automatic Electric Laboratories, Inc., is a new electronic telephone switching system which will accommodate 100 local subscribers and 20 trunks emanating from an electromechanical exchange.1 Ten of the trunks are PBX (private branch exchange) trunks and ten are 2-way dial trunks. Four operator lines have been established, not only as intermediate terminations for the PBX trunks, but also to provide special services for local subscribers. A 6-position meet-me conference facility is reinforced by a progressive or chain conference feature. Provisions have been made for trunk transfer, trunk restriction, night service, and operator intercept on unequipped lines.2"
"Error control techniques are becoming increasingly important in data transmission systems, since they allow reliable communications over media where the interference is high. Transmission errors can be corrected either by adding redundancy bits to the information to generate an error correcting code, or by automatically retransmitting the message when erroneously received. The relative merits of the two techniques are discussed in terms of both error control and systems compatibility. A class of powerful and easily implemented cyclic error detection and correction codes was recently developed which, in combination with automatic retransmission, should give effective error protection. Once the system reliability requirements are realistically gauged, and the characteristics of the channel interference are known, it is possible to determine a cyclic code best suited to that interference, and to determine a message length for the maximum transfer of information."
"On-line data processing systems have been developed for industrial and business problems which may be classed as inventory control of products with regional, nation-wide, or even worldwide distribution and demand. The control and reservation of passenger or cargo space in the transportation industry, the handling of deposits and withdrawals in savings banks with many branches, the processing, distributing, and retrieval of information concerning stock transactions and quotations, and the control of inventory for large-scale manufacturing and distributing organizations as well as for government and military organizations are examples of application for which systems of this type are required."
"The program under discussion prepares chassis wiring diagrams from a list of the chassis terminals to be connected. The diagrams are figurative, representing the existence, but not the exact location, of real wires on the chassis. These diagrams are a two-dimensional form of wiring information and are therefore of more value in maintenance and production than a single- or double-ended wiring list. In particular, the diagrams may be used to record changes, trace signals, and guide wiring shop personnel."
"In situations where a single d-c source only is available or desirable to power electronic equipment requiring a number of different and isolated supply voltages, a so-called d-c to d-c converter1‾3 can be used. A typical example of this situation is found with mobile equipment where space and weight considerations determine the available power source. Communication equipment having buffer batteries to maintain continuous operation, which are unaffected by interruptions of the primary power source, is another example."
"A previous unpublished paper by the author derived the design equations for the transistor saturable current transformer amplifier. In that discussion, sample calculations were made and an amplifier designed. Measured values were compared with those calculated. It is a short step to use the amplifier previously designed in a direct output power supply to provide a constant 30 volts up to 10 amperes. A current limiting circuit was added to the circuit to restrict output current under overload conditions."
"The performance of an entire computer system is greatly influenced by the elements that are chosen for its sequential logic. For example, the central processing unit of the IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) 704 was organized around the Haven's delay unit chosen for its storage, accumulator, and M-Q registers. As machines having more parallel operation and increasingly complicated controls are developed, a greater percentage of the machine is composed of sequential devices. It thus becomes more important to consider the logical capabilities of the circuits which are chosen."
"The announcement of the silicon controlled rectifier1,2 in December 1957 instituted a new era in the field of electric power conversion. Almost immediately, attention was focused on the application of this device in inversion equipment.3 At first, silicon-controlled rectifiers were substituted for thyratrons in existing circuits. However, such direct replacements failed to take full advantage of the better characteristics of the new device. This paper presents a silicon-controlled rectifier inverter circuit which makes use of a new commutation method. Here the small size, short turn-off time, and low forward voltage drop of the silicon-controlled rectifier are advantageously utilized to provide a more flexible inverter with higher performance and smaller size. The circuit was developed in the General Engineering Laboratory of the General Electric Company."
"A routine simulating the operation of an analog computer was constructed for use on a digital computer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. This code, called DEPI,1 as an abbreviation for “differential equations pseudocode interpreter,” provides much of the flexibility and ease of operation associated with analog computer operation. A study was made in which the speed, accuracy, and flexibility of the DEPI system were compared with those attributes in a digital differential analyzer, an analog computer, and a digital computer. The vehicle of comparison was a zero-lift, zero-angle-of-attack missile-trajectory problem. The results of this comparison are presented here in tabular and graphical form. Because of variations which exist among commercial models of each type of computer used in the study, the salient features of the particular models are described."
"In considering a digital computer for use in a control system, two types of digital computers are generally recognized today: whole word, commonly referred to as general-purpose, and partial word or incremental computers. One or the other may be ideal for a specific application, but, since they differ considerably in basic concept, neither of them can solve all problems."
"In any current discussion of engineering education, particularly electrical engineering education, inevitably a conflict arises between those who wish to inject more science and mathematics into curricula and others who insist that engineering colleges should train engineers, not scientists. This paper supports neither side of this controversy but presents the arguments for the following thesis: The present emphasis on science and mathematics in electrical engineering curricula is creating a research-oriented type of undergraduate education that may lead to inadequate preparation for professional careers. Since 80 to 90% of the undergraduates intend to follow professional rather than research or teaching careers, re-evaluation of the goals of undergraduate education is required."
"Every teacher is well aware of the importance of motivation in the performance of his students. It is a matter of common observation that a student of superior ability who loses his desire to learn quickly becomes an academic liability. Achievement seems to be something like the product of natural ability times motivation, integrated over the period of learning. Although the source of motivation is sometimes beyond the instructor's control, on the average it is the teacher himself who must take the responsibility for generating in his students not only the desire to learn but the will to do the work of learning. The thesis of this paper is that a strong intellectual challenge is the most effective means of motivation, and that electrical-engineering education over the past few years has developed in precisely this direction. One such program, based on a new kind of introductory course, is described."
"\"We now return you to our studio in New York.\" At this cue from the announcer the smiling face of the weather man in Chicago disappears from the screen of your television set and is replaced by that of a well-known news commentator. This change in the originating point of a television program is a familiar phenomenon to viewers and similar “switches” are performed in each television network many times each day. However, back of the ability of the various television networks to originate or receive programs almost anywhere in the United States lies a large web of intercity and local audio and video transmission and switching facilities leased by the Bell Telephone Company system to the television networks. These facilities are constantly being expanded and improved and it is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly the video switching facilities previously used and to present a more detailed description of new video switching facilities which are now being put into use."
"In the development of a transmission line, the engineer attempts to establish a criterion for minimum attenuation; minimum discontinuities, or minimum VSWR (voltage standing wave ratio); maximum power handling capability; maximum frequency range; ease of manufacture; and the ability to attach connectors having consistent and reliable electrical and mechanical qualities. This paper will discuss the development of a semi-flexible, semisolid dielectric coaxial transmission line and its associated connectors, with particular reference to obtaining minimum discontinuities. A cycling method of measurement is used to ensure complete frequency coverage as well as to distinguish discontinuities between connectors and those inherent in the coaxial transmission line. The first part of the paper will consider the general aspects of the coaxial transmission line and its associated connectors; the second part will discuss a specific consideration of the problem of analyzing cycling traces in determining over-all discontinuity effects."
"In 1946 the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company made plans for the installation of its first mobile radio channel in the Los Angeles (Calif.) basin. Since this initial installation the area has evidenced an insatiable demand for this type of service. By the end of 1960 the telephone companies serving the area plan to have all available channels in service. Fig. 1 is a block schematic of a typical channel in the Los Angeles area."
"The td-2 microwave radio relay system at present provides six broadband channels in each direction of transmission in the frequency band between 3,700 and 4,200 mc (megacycles), each channel being capable of transmitting several hundred voice circuits.1 This paper describes arrangements and some of the technical problems involved whereby the number of broad-band channels can be doubled with no significant penalty to the existing channels."
"The 57 A protection system is a fault-sensing and switching system, which serves as an automatic guardian of the quality of a broad-band (1,300 kc) transmission channel. Acting upon a loss in transmission level, or an increase in noise, it transfers a communication traffic load from a failing regular channel to a normally unassigned stand-by channel. The transmission protection afforded by the stand-by channel is shared among as many as three regular channels."
"From the earliest days of telephony the evaluation of message circuit noise has been an important problem. Of particular interest has been the evaluation of noise originating from harmonic components present in power system voltages and currents. Magnetic fields set up by power currents, and electric fields set up by power voltages, tend to induce voltages in nearby telephone conductors. Even a small transfer of power at harmonic frequencies in the voice band can cause trouble. For example an input of 400 μwatts (micromicrowatts), or 26 db (decibels) above reference noise, into a telephone set at 1,000 cps (cycles per second) will give an audible tone. To put such a tone on all of the 60 million telephones in the United States at once would require just 24 milliwatts, transmission losses neglected."
"Automatic gain control (AGC) circuits are useful in obtaining relatively constant output levels where the input signal may vary over a wide range. Several articles have been written covering methods of controlling transistor gain in intermediate radio-frequency circuits.1,2 The usual method employed is to change one of the transistor parameters by the application of an external signal. The two basic methods of gain control indicated are: 1. Emitter current (Ie) control. 2. Collector voltage (Vc) control."
"The number of miles of telephone wire in the United States today runs well over the 240 million mark. This is enough to run 1,000 wires between here and the moon, or, if extended as a single pair, enough to carry on a telephone conversation with the sun. Also there are in use today, in this country alone, well over 60 million telephone instruments."
"The present nation-wtde telephone numbering plan, adopted in 1947, was expected to last beyond the year 2000, but now it appears that it will be outgrown by about 1975. The telephone industry in the United States and Canada has, therefore, adopted a new plan with several times the code capacity of the present one which should last well into the next century."
"This paper describes a repeater which was designed for a medium-haul cable-carrier system. It is called the Lenkurt type 4587 A repeater unit. By use of transistors, power requirements are minimized. By the use of conservative design techniques, a high degree of reliability is expected."
"Conventional forms of multi-range current transformers with a rated output of 5 or 10 va (volt-amperes) cannot be employed for operation of standard moving-coil milliammeter ink recorders which require about 1.5 mw (milliwatts) for full-scale deflection. Recently developed a-c and d-c types of miniaturized current transformers using cores of thin molybdenum-permalloy tape and special construction (extremely small cross-sectional area of the core and very large number of turns of the secondary winding) make multirange operation of such recorders possible."
"Waterproof cases for instruments, especially cameras, electronic flash lamps, and sonar drivers, are considered for external pressures up to 20,000 psi (pounds per square inch) which is adequate for the greatest known depths in the sea. Equations, charts, and experimentally determined values of failure are given for cylinders, end caps, and windows of various materials. Several types of pressure-resisting electric connections are shown and a pressure-testing facility is described."
"Man regularly encounters changing environmental conditions. Some of these changes are severe involving extreme discomfort, while others are so subtle as to pass unnoticed. Air ionization is one factor of environment that is properly classified as a subtle change for most people. Few are consciously aware of any change in air ionization, yet the physiological importance of air ions to the function of the respiratory system has been recently quantitatively demonstrated.1"
"Methods for rating semiconductor power rectifiers and controlled rectifiers under steady-state conditions are well established and accepted. These techniques assume uniform temperature across the entire semiconductor junction area and limit this temperature under different load and ambient conditions to a predetermined level consistent with good performance and high reliability.1,2Supplementary methods for determining junction temperature under transient and intermittent loads are necessary for such applications as motor-starting and lamp-dimming controls,3 and for calculations involving other types of overload duty on semiconductor equipment. This paper discusses methods of handling these intermittent duty types of applications. Examples illustrate suggested techniques for determining the peak junction temperature under various kinds of intermittent loading."
"Qualitative comparisons are often made between a digital differential analyzer (DDA) and a general purpose (GP) computer for real-time control applications. Such comparisons consider static and dynamic accuracy, flexibility, equipment complexity, solution stability, influence of random errors, and ability to cope with discontinuities. They do not clearly point to a machine for solution of a problem since the DDA is found preferable in some characteristics while the GP excels in others. This ground is not to be covered."
"In data transmission systems that are subject to noise, it is found that errors do not occur randomly but in bursts. Consequently, much interest has centered lately on the problem of constructing suitable error-correcting codes."
"A method is shown for obtaining an analog of a typical amplidyne which has four control windings. Both the need for electronic analog differentiators and the possibility of circuits containing even-numbered amplifiers which give rise to unstable oscillations have been eliminated by the use of inverse inductances.1,2 This makes it possible to have each amplidyne parameter represented by a computer component, which makes for ease of analysis and synthesis. Nonlinearities may be included in the analog and the analysis can be as rigorous as desired, limited only by the number of analog computer elements available. The method presented is applicable to circuit or machine containing mutual reactances."
"The minneapolis-honeywell Regulator Company's H-290 is a general-purpose digital computer which is provided with input and output paths which make it particularly easy to relate the computer to sensing and control devices."
"In this paper the thermal behavior of the semiconductor device is referred to the junction. Devices consisting of multiple parts which are non homogeneous and with varying outlines are subdivided into homogeneous elements with simple outlines which are successively related to the junction. Thermal impedance calculations of cylindrical and spherical sectors are given numerically. Stationary thermal impedances provide the framework to assemble a valid succession of transient thermal impedances. The analysis is expanded for long heating cycles by a simple lumped-component approach with limits of validity."
"There is a need in industry for equipment of moderate complexity and cost capable of solving simple process control equations at high speed. Quite economical process control and processing of instrumentation data may be accomplished by a hybrid computer. This tool combines the best features of analog and digital systems with a simplicity and economy unavailable in either, to produce a unique combination which is capable of operating at extremely high speeds and accuracies, over large numerical ranges."
"The control of a chemical plant may be viewed as an attempt to vary the plant inputs in such a way as to maximize a specified performance criterion, i.e., the average rate of return on investment. This must be done in the face of uncertainties as to the values of the parameters describing the process and specifying the economic performance criterion, and in spite of uncontrollable plant disturbances which are also partly random in nature."
"The problem of finding the periodic response of a linear system to a non-sinusoidal periodic excitation is of continuing interest.1‾8 The following constitutes a brief summary of the existing methods of solving such problems: 1. The Fourier series. 2. Infinite series summation of transients. 3. Solution of a differential equation subject to matching conditions at the beginning and end of a cycle. 4. Computation of the periodic response in closed form, for the duration of the first cycle, by subtracting the transient part of the response from the total response. 5. Use of the modified Z-transform to obtain the closed form solution for one cycle of response, in the limit, as t approaches infinity."
"A magnetic memory drum is a convenient, relatively cheap storage device of moderate speed and of large capacity. It comprises a cylindrical rotor, whose surface is coated with a magnetic material, rotating within a shroud which supports salient heads. Proper design requires an appreciation of the effect on performance of such factors as rotor eccentricity, head-setting variations, head manufacturing tolerances, and storage surface variations. Equations are developed to describe the signal-to-noise ratio of a typical drum and the threshold (switching) voltage appropriate to the read amplifier for reliable operation. Material selection is approached on the basis of stress calculations and it is concluded that 2014-T6 aluminum is the best rotor material for general-purpose applications. It is shown that, for any rotor with a given degree of unbalance, there is a maximum stable operating speed. Problems associated with thermal mismatch of materials are discussed, and the necessity of operating large drums in a stable temperature environment is pointed out."
"In analog computing technology as well as in the laboratory study of control instrumentation or simulation systems, it is frequently desirable to be able to provide a given arbitrary periodic function as a forcing function. However, no device will reproduce exactly every arbitrary function which might be required. For this reason, considerable effort has been applied toward the development of devices which will reproduce an approximation to a wide variety of functions. The term, “function generator” has been given to devices of this type."
"The literature contains many articles on the design of voltage-operated diode logic gates. Perhaps the major disadvantage of this type of gate is the restriction of the design to two or three stages which does not, in general, allow realization of minimal networks or which alternately requires the insertion of a gain device to re-establish the voltage levels. This paper formulates the general realization procedures applicable to the synthesis of current-operated diode logic networks. The current-operated gate is essentially the dual of the voltage-operated gate; this relationship is established to substantiate the utilization of existing synthesis methods. Two distinctly different realization procedures are described, both equally general, and the choice is usually dictated by the nature of the specific transmission function. The Boolean operations of addition and multiplication (commonly referred to as OR and AND respectively) are more conveniently realized with the use of the “dual method.” The operation of sum modulo two (or function selection) is more economically synthesized using the “lattice method.” For a further discussion of the terms see the section on add and multiply, reference 1."
"Both sequential circuits (Fig. 1) and iterative circuits (Figs. 2 and 3) are usually designed by first forming a stable table (flow table) describing the desired circuit performance 1‾3 In this table the various combinations of signals on the feedback or carry leads (corresponding to the internal states of the circuits) are represented by decimal numbers. It is necessary to assign specific combinations of binary signals to these (decimal) states before the actual circuit design can be carried out. This corresponds to the transition from a state table, such as Table I-A to an output table, such as Table I-B. For a given table, different assignments will usually lead to different circuits which can vary significantly in cost. The problem of minimizing the cost of the equipment can be even more important for iterative circuits since each “cell”occurs many times in the final circuit. The number of different assignments is so large that it is not feasible to try all different assignments for circuits having more than two internal variables.4 This particular problem of discovering assignments which correspond to economical circuits is still unsolved."
"This paper continues the series based on the use of matrices in the design of switching networks. To avoid redundancy within the series, all previous papers on matrix logic are considered as prerequisite, in particular, references 1 and 2. This paper establishes a general classification scheme for logical functions, as follows: 1. General symmetric functions, which are the sum of ordinary symmetric functions. 2. Trivial and redundant functions. 3. Universal functions, which are capable of performing any logical functions by appropriate iterations."
"A method for teaching electrical engineering students the use of digital computers in solving electric machinery problems, especially with regard to iterative methods, is explained. By emphasizing the process of stating actual problems and formulating them in flow diagrams, more general principles are brought to light. The method is illustrated with an example of a power transformer winding design. The use of the international computer language ALGOL, is demonstrated and discussed."
"The urgent need for a reference on suggested algebraic and graphical symbols for the design and maintenance requirements of digital systems prompted the preparation of this report. It is also intended to serve as a reference for the symbology used in tutorial lectures sponsored by the AIEE Subcommittee for Logic and Switching Circuit Theory of the Computing Devices Committee. Included are algebraic symbols for representing variables and connectives used in logical expressions; graphical symbols for manually prepared logical diagrams; and printed graphical symbols for logical diagrams prepared by high-speed printers."
"This paper presents several methods of setting up an analog computer to solve a system of coupled equations for several unknown functions; these methods extend Clymer's “implicit synthesis” technique.1 The system can also contain derivatives of the unknown functions, but in that case only one independent variable is considered. The system of equations need not be linear. Only the existence of certain derivatives of the given functions is assumed."
"Ferroelectrics belong to that group of dielectrics which are said to be nonlinear, but a nonlinear dielectric is not necessarily ferroelectric. The statement that a dielectric is nonlinear requires rather careful consideration.1 If the temperature of a ferroelectric ceramic and also the external pressure on it are maintained constant, and if an electric field is applied which is below the saturation level, then the electric displacement D, or equivalently the polarization P, depends not only on the magnitude of the applied field but also on the past history and state of strain of the material. Linear dielectrics are characterized by the unique function D(ω) = ω(ω)E(ω), which does not hold true for nonlinear dielectrics. This implies that when one is dealing with a nonlinear dielectric: (1) frequencies appear in P(t), or in D(t), which are not present in E(t); and/or (2) if E1(t) produces D1(t) and E2 produces D2(t), then A1E1(t) + A2E2(t) does not produce A1D1(t) + A2D2(t)."
"It is often convenient to consider the arguments of a switching function to be the components zero or 1 of a vector. It is appropriate, therefore, to employ a vector notation for the theory of switching. The notation developed by Iverson1 for the study of automatic data processing is admirably suited, with a few modifications, to the theory of switching as well. Those features of the Iverson notation that are appropriate have been adapted for the present discussion, and are set forth below."
"This paper will discuss the principles of operation of the sector-focused cyclotron as well as the major design problems which have evolved and the progress which has been made as shown in recent studies of this device. The cyclotron1 produces energetic beams of charged particles, which are used principally as a research tool to probe the atomic nucleus in an attempt to understand in detail the nature of the forces which hold the nucleus together. An important subsidiary use of the cyclotron beams is for isotope production work. Generally, only neutron-rich radioisotopes can be produced in a nuclear reactor. Neutron-deficient isotopes, of which there are many of practical importance, require the use of charged particle beams such as are obtained from the cyclotron."
"In the united States and abroad there is intensive activity in thermonuclear research.1 A major part of this effort is directed toward containment, in strong magnetic fields, of plasma of the necessary high-particle energies, corresponding to temperatures of hundreds of millions of degrees Kelvin. Magnetic field design in thermonuclear research has already been developed to a relatively broad field of electrical engineering.2 The purpose of this paper is to discuss some theorems which are of special interest for the design of large d-c magnet coils as used, for instance, in the DCX (d-c experiment) thermonuclear research program of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.3"
"In recent years, power klystrons, traveling-wave amplifiers (TWA), and various forms of crossed-field amplifiers and oscillators have been produced in relatively large numbers with essentially reproducible characteristics. Gradually these devices have found their way into more and more sophisticated systems applications with the logical result that they are competing with one another with regard to the most desirable set of characteristics. This competition deals with weight, efficiency, bandwidth, average power capability, and modulation characteristics, to name just a few items. In general it is not feasible to optimize or maximize all of these parameters in one tube and hence there seems to be room for all the above-mentioned device types, depending upon the particular application and which of the characteristics is most critical. The day of the high-gain high-power high-efficiency broad-bandwidth short-length lightweight low-noise amplifier to be powered by a solar cell is not yet here. The Crestatron amplifier to be described in this paper affords a means of optimizing several of these characteristics in one device."
"On the basis of an assumed magnetically confined, stable, quiescent plasma, the relations for the fusion power liberated and the electric power consumed to generate an externally applied magnetic field are recalled. From these, appropriate scaling laws are developed which show the relative importance of various machine parameters, independently of the specific form of machine assumed. In the event that any of this class of machines should be proved physically possible, the directions of development needed to improve the economy of a resulting power-generating system are indicated. The advantages and disadvantages of various methods of increasing the yield of a fusion plant are compared."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"A magnetic device, capable of sensing small currents, has been developed. A bar or stick of low-coercive-force square-loop ferrite forms the core of the device, and two holes pierce the stick, transverse to its long axis. The current to be detected flows in a solenoid, which surrounds the stick. The sensing of this current is accomplished by observing the flux switched around the holes under the action of a pulse of current flowing through them."
"This paper describes a controllable direct-current supply in which the current is essentially independent of the load and in which very low ripple is achieved at essentially all values of controlled current output. The system consists of a 3-phase saturable reactor with a high-impedance control circuit used in conjunction with uncontrolled rectifiers. An analysis of the system is presented and experimental results are given."
"Announcement was made in 1952 of a magnetic amplifier of the self-balancing potentiometer type1 combining the very stable operating conditions of d-c instrument transformers2,3 with the unique features of self-balancing potentiometer devices and negative-feedback amplifiers. Thus the door was opened to widespread application of such “self-balancing” magnetic amplifiers4 in fields which are far beyond the capabilities of the conventional magnetic-amplifier circuits. Actually, since then, this subject has engaged the attention of many research and development groups with regard to design5,6 and analytical investigations.7‾10 As a result of the development of various types of self-balancing magnetic-amplifier push-pull circuits utilizing either differential external feedback11,12 or self-saturation,13,14 the field of application is continually being broadened."
"In signal transmission systems, employing suppressed-carrier modulated signals, it is often desirable to operate on the modulation in order to stabilize the system or alter its performance. The circuit discussed in this paper, an illustration of techniques employing saturable-core reactors that may be used for operating directly on the modulated carrier,1 is based on the ability of a saturable-core reactor to convert a voltage integral to a magnetic flux and store it until called for. The experimental circuit is an integrator with a direct voltage gain of approximately 100 and a time constant of 4 seconds."
"The 3-phase full-wave ramey-type magnetic amplifier is far superior to its single-phase counterpart in band-pass characteristics.1 In the single-phase unit, phase detection effects which produce beats in the output begin to occur with control frequencies of two-thirds of the carrier frequency. In a properly balanced 3-phase system, phase detection does not occur until the control signal frequency is raised above twice the carrier frequency."
"The purpose of this work is to develop a quantitative model for the mechanism of flux reversal in nickel-iron (Ni-Fe) cores. The model allows the prediction of the instantaneous values of magnetic flux during reversal as a function of the applied magnetic-field intensity. Emphasis is placed upon the applicability of the results to practical engineering problems as well as the adherence of the model to the physical description of the process. This paper deals primarily with flux changes in grain-oriented 50% Ni-Fe tape-wound cores; however, the general approach is equally applicable to other alloys and types of core construction."
"A number of methods for phase-locking a group of two or more single-phase transistor-magnetic inverters have been described in the literature since 1955.1‾3 Phase displacement between inverters in most cases depends upon supplementary reactors which add to the cost and complexity of the circuit."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a solid-state approach to the Doppler radar data extraction problem using nonlinear magnetic techniques. The mechanization details will therefore be preceded by sufficient radar system background pertinent to this application."
"A new type of adjustable-frequency transistor converter circuit, described in Part I of this paper, differs from conventional transistor converters and from transistor converter circuits incorporating frequency adjustment discussed in previous papers.1‾3 In the new type, the operating frequency is independent of the applied direct voltage - not proportional to it. The switching rate is determined by the time constant of an R-C (resistance-capacitance) network so that no saturating element is required. By making either the resistor or capacitor variable, the frequency is easily controlled over wide limits, and once a setting is made, no appreciable change in frequency occurs despite large variations in the input voltage."
"This paper offers a method of analysis for a parametric amplifier circuit. The circuit, composed of nonlinear inductance for parametric excitation, is designed to operate at one-half of the pump frequency. The Parametron1 has proved useful as a general-purpose element for digital computers, having the potential capability of logic, storage, and amplification. It is both reliable and relatively inexpensive for computers of various sizes."
"The theoretical aspects of saturation magnetic recording have been under investigation at the Electronics Division of The National Cash Register Company for several years. One conclusion of this study pointed out a significant difference between tape and drum (or disk) systems in regard to their storage density limitations."
"With the advent of space vehicles, missiles, and outstanding developments in the aircraft and marine transportation industries came new and more stringent environmental conditions for electronic devices and equipments. The AIEE Materials Subcommittee of the Magnetic Amplifier Committee, recognizing the present need for information concerning the effects of the new environment on existing devices and anticipating future needs, formed the Working Group on Magnetic Amplifier Materials Under Extreme Environmental Conditions to investigate the more stringent environments. The scope is to gather information on performance characteristics regarding the suitability of principal components used in magnetic amplifiers such as cores, wires, rectifiers, insulation, and potting as affected by extreme environmental influences; and to publish information describing the state of the art and to point out where more work is needed."
"Rectifiers produce a ripple of the direct-voltage output. Because it has many different shapes, it is hard to describe in simple terms except by the effective (root-mean-square) value of the ripple voltage, giving only one number to designate its magnitude. Within the limitations given in the paper, all ripples depend only on voltage magnitude, repetition rate, overlap (time of current commutation), and phase delay angles. Calculation of the magnitude is attempted by various methods; the most straightforward one uses two normalized functions of overlap and repetition rate (expressed as per-unit values). Figures in the paper give these functions within the range of validity and examples show how to use the method and interpret the results. Without phase control the resulting relative ripple magnitude (ripple voltage over direct voltage) is plotted against both repetition rate and overlap."
"There is a variety of systematic procedures for simplifying single-output switching functions. This paper proposes an extension of a certain class of these procedures. This extension makes it possible to simplify multiple-output switching circuits by using tags to identify the terms belonging to different output functions."
"In certain applications of truth-function logic it is of interest to consider the minimization problem in a more general form.1 So-called “algebraic” procedures for determining the irredundant forms of a truth function fall into two categories depending on whether the method requires preliminary expansion of a formula into developed normal form or not. The methods of McCluskey2 and Petrick,3 for example, require canonical expansion of a formula; whereas the table of ratio functions by Gazale4 and a method developed by the author5 determine irredundant forms solely from the list of prime implicants themselves. The latter (referred to hereafter as the “method of iterated consensus”) arrives at minimal forms by an iterative scheme where the rule of consensus is applied repeatedly to the prime implicants. The purpose of this paper is to indicate how algebraic methods of the second variety apply to the more general case where the class of simplest normal truth functions to be determined is that of formulas equivalent to a given formula Ф under the hypothesis that certain conjunctions of letters of Ф are always false."
"Development of radio and electronic equipment for telemetering weather data from remote inaccessible locations has been greatly accelerated in recent years. In 1959 the Bonneville Power Administration completed the installation of an automatic precipitation-and temperature-reporting system utilizing standard detection devices, and including a unique telemetering and transmission system. This system was installed above the Hungry Horse Reservoir located on the south fork of the Flathead River in Montana. The Hungry Horse Reservoir, which was built by the Bureau of Reclamation in 1953, has a storage capacity of 3,500,000 acre-feet, of which nearly 3,000,000 are usable for power production. The Hungry Horse Project is designed primarily to increase system prime power on the U. S. Columbia River System and to control floods in the Flathead Valley in the vicinity of Kalispell, Mont., and on the main Columbia River farther downstream."
"Digital telemetering is an information transmission operation in which meter information is processed from source to receiving point in digital form. In the operation, the information is developed in digital form at the source, is transmitted in this form over a long-distance link, and is digitally received and processed at the receiving point. This definition demands, in turn, a definition of digital form and long-distance communications links."
"It has often been stated that the standards and equipment used to calibrate an electric instrument, or other electric measuring apparatus, should be ten times as accurate as the instrument being tested. This rule-of-thumb usually leads to impossible demands on the accuracy of the standards, particularly if more than two echelons of standards are involved. Troublesome problems should be expected in primary, secondary, and tertiary standardizing laboratories in large organizations. At any echelon, operations on a 10-to-1 basis require standards that become vastly more expensive in first cost and in actual use, because of the type of personnel and time required, than may be warranted by the instruments being tested."
"In june 1958, the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory contracted with Stanford Research Institute for the development of a mechanical crowbar-type switch. At that time Radiation Laboratory personnel were conducting experiments using the basic high-power L-R-C (inductance-resistance-capacitance) circuit shown in Fig. 1. In this circuit, the ignitron V2 is subjected to excessive duty when heavily loaded. This paper describes a high-capacity fast-acting mechanical switch designed for this special application."
"This paper describes the design details and performance of an automatic impedance matching unit designed to operate with a vehicular communication equipment consisting of a receiver-transmitter and a 10-foot whip antenna."
"The definition of distortion with the resulting conclusions is of fundamental importance in determining the reliability of telegraph transmission circuits, judging the quality of the component sections, assessing maintenance requirements, and planning teleprinter networks. Being aware of this importance, the CCIT (International Telegraph Consultative Committee, since 1957 CCITT, International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee) has been carefully studying the related problems for more than 30 years. Terms have been defined, values established, and detailed investigations carried out. The subsequent elucidations are based on CCIT publications.1‾3"
"The single-ring circular antenna array of axial dipoles is analyzed in this paper. Such an array consists of m parallel dipoles, equally spaced on the circumference of a circle whose radius is ρ. The two principal properties with which a designer is concerned are (1) the radiation pattern and (2) the impedance of each element in an array, both of which can be found if the current distribution along the element is known. To synthesize a specified radiation pattern, the voltages at the center of each element must be determined."
"It is a common experience among communication engineers today that much telegraph apparatus which was originally developed for conventional telegraph applications is finding increasing use in other fields, notably in the developing art of data communication. This factor has its inevitable influence on the design of telegraph equipment. In this paper a new method for transmission and reception of teleprinter code is described. This is an improvement over the author's original proposal published in 1958.1"
"Inability to determine, accurately and economically, the calling line number in connection with direct distance dialing has hindered the extension of this service to small telephone systems. Manual identification methods, while relatively low in equipment costs, are vulnerable to operator error and subscriber fraud. On the other hand, most currently available automatic number identification equipment cannot be applied economically to systems having a low volume of toll traffic."
"The past 10 years have brought forth few improvements in long-haul telephone carrier systems, despite steadily-increasing consumer demands. Existing carrier systems were designed primarily for the transmission of speech and have been used mainly for that and for telegraphic transmissions. The common carriers, independents, and private and government-owned systems have done a remarkable job in providing new types of service such as handling of data, Teletype, and facsimile. However, costs have run high because of the need to derate capacities of systems designed primaily for voice transmission or to add suitable devices for correcting delay distortion, amplitude distortion, frequency stability, or signal-noise ratio."
"The direct distance dialing (DDD) telecommunications network used throughout the nation and extending into other nations consists of many complex elements. One of the problems involves providing quantity and quality in a talking or data connection. The following good transmission engineering practices will result in providing the grade of service necessary, limited only by economic considerations. A simple method of determining how successfully all transmission elements fit together in the over-all picture is discussed."
"A method of design is proposed for electromagnetic a-c to d-c and d-c to a-c conversion devices which largely eliminates the interdependence of bias voltage and dynamic range. This is achieved by using a model approach which divorces the output null from the dynamic range. Test results have proved the method achieves the desired results without affecting the characteristics of the basic device."
"Gain margin and phase margin are important quantities in the description of the performance of feedback systems since they are an accurate measure of relative stability. Their usefulness lies in the fact that they are easily calculated and that their variation with changes in system parameters is easily determined."
"The mechanism of gas movement in the electric wind is considered herein, and an approximate theory presented which relates relevant electrical and aerodynamic quantities. Among others, these relationships are shown to hold for an electrostatic blower, operating on the electric-wind principle: Gas velocity is a linear function of voltage and is proportional to the square root of current; if the density of the gas is not too low, the efficiency of electrokinetic conversion near sparkover is proportional to the square root of the density, and the velocity at constant current is independent of the density; near sparkover efficiency is independent of voltage; velocity increases slowly as additional blowers are stacked in series; the ozone concentration of blower air resulting from the corona discharge is an increasing function of electric-wind velocity. The forms of the equations relating these variables are found to hold in a variety of cases, even though assumed boundary conditions are not observed experimentally. The practical utility of an electrostatic blower is limited by an efficiency of operation in the neighborhood of 1%."
"The two-transistor linear rundown circuit analyzed here is desirable because of its size and economy. The circuit uses one transistor for the constant-current generator and another for an emitter-follower. Waveforms obtained from both experimental and theoretical analysis correlated well enough to plot them as a single waveform. With the addition of a differentiating circuit, this rundown circuit is well suited for the problem of low-level pulse-height to pulse-width conversion."
"There is an increasing demand for high-efficiency fast-responding high-gain compact economical power amplifiers. There is need to accomplish these demands by a single unit which can provide a higher degree of economy and compactness than has previously been achieved. The combination of switching, semiconductors and saturable magnetic devices provides a solution for many of these demands. The silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) has the ability of switching high power (1 to 100 kw). Combining the SCR with saturable magnetic devices, a power amplifier (MAG-SCR) is provided. The MAG-SCR power amplifier has potentialities of high efficiency, gain, and economy with fast response and insulated control."
"Breakdown of gases between clean metallic electrodes has been studied extensively and has resulted in an acceptable explanation for sparkover where the gradient is of the order of 30 kv/cm (kv per centimeter) or more, but it does not explain the sparkovers which occasionally occur in high-voltage apparatus where the gradient appears to be nearer 5 than 30 kv/cm. A previous paper1 has shown that for negative corona, sparkover voltage is a function of the resistivity of any coating on the anode or passive electrode and can be especially low if the resistivity is high. This type of sparkover was found to be preceded by repetitive current pulses. Each pulse was found to have the same current-time characteristics and the same velocity of propagation as the single prebreakdown streamer described by Meek and Craggs2 and Parks and Cones,3 but which were produced with clean electrodes and at higher gradients."
"Since the introduction of single crystal rectifier cells, the switching action from the forward- to the reverse-biased condition, in other words commutation, frequently has been analyzed. In the early stages of germanium and silicon rectifiers, destruction of cells was often caused by this commutation action. After the application of parallel capacitors or filtering circuits, the troubles were eliminated, and correctly designed filtering capacitors provided a simple, cheap, and effective way to assure trouble-free operation."
"Actual deviations of the ordinary saturable-reactor control characteristic from the ideal 45-degree line have been measured directly by means of a differential-type test circuit, using bifilar saturable-reactor windings, which secure correct turns ratio and eliminate magnetic leakage. Three magnetic-amplifier core materials (Silectron, Orthonol, and Supermalloy) have been investigated in this way, with various values of the effective turns ratio between d-c control windings and a-c load windings."
"When facing the objective of automatically printing radio Morse copy on a teleprinter, the necessity for both signal processing and code conversion are clear. Equipment for performing four necessary functions are herein described. This equipment must: 1. Tune the receiver automatically. 2. Process the Morse-coded signal to remove noise and distortion. 3. Convert between the Morse and teleprinter codes. 4. Drive the teleprinter"
"A problem often encountered in practical network design is the synthesis of filters which satisfy various frequency-dependent requirements in the stop band and exhibit Tchebyshev behavior in the pass band. The theory of such networks, usually called general parameter filters, was founded by Darlington1 and treated in detail by German authors.2‾4 As the amount of numerical calculations encountered in the design process is considerable even for the simplest cases and becomes excessive for the more involved networks, the need for a digital computer is strongly indicated. As will be pointed out later, a digital computer supplies the fastest and most economical way of design."
"Germanium devices, when correctly used, are capable of essentially infinite life. It was commonly assumed in early higher temperature semiconductor work that silicon devices and those of materials, such as silicon carbide and III-V compounds would have similar life expectancy. That this is not realized in soft-soldered silicon devices is now well established. Evidence is presented to show that this limitation in life is due to fatigue rupture of the soft-soldered joints when they are subjected to cyclic thermal stress. A new hard-soldered structure is described which has been proved by long experience to eliminate fatigue failure completely."
"The toll network in Japan has been expanded and improved through long-term projects, utilizing various types of new equipments. The main long-distance network has been built up of coaxial cable and microwave systems, which are used to connect offices larger than primary outlets. To connect offices smaller than primary outlets, a more economical system had to be considered, and with recent acceleration in conversion to the toll dialing system, it became imperative to increase rapidly the number of toll circuits between large cities and their surrounding satellites, as well as between the principal large cities."
"A system is described in this paper which automatically and continuously measures and records parameters associated with amplitude-modulated (AM), frequency-modulated (FM), and television (TV) transmitters, either remote or local. The technical fundamentals used for recording these parameters are also discussed."
"Low-level tone-signal techniques are used for automatic calling and selection on multiparty single-line facilities. The subscribers, equipped with transistorized transmitters and receivers, transmit single tone signals for seizure, dialing, and release. These signals are propagated along the wires to the terminal equipment, where they are converted to d-c pulses and stored for interpretation. This interpretation is accomplished by relay logic in order to decide whether the call is for a party on the same line, or for a party within the PBX (Private Branch Exchange) to which the line is terminally connected. In the first case, the called number is converted into an amplitude-modulated tone, where the frequency of the carrier and the modulation correspond to the first and second significant digits dialed, respectively. This tone is then retransmitted for selection of the desired party. At the called subscriber's station, the electronic selector receiver, which takes the place of the electromechanical selector, responds only to the particular carrier corresponding to its number. In this receiver, the envelope is detected and the recovered modulation tone is amplified directly to drive one out of a maximum of five tuned ringers. A total of 60 stations can be used on one pair of wires having a maximum attenuation of 30 db (decibels)."
"The telephone service in the United Kingdom is operated by the General Post Office and supplied with equipment by a number of manufacturing companies. In general the industry manufactures to specifications issued by the Post Office. In this way a multiplicity of types of apparatus is avoided despite the existence of a number of independent manufacturing concerns offering similar products. In particular, a joint Post Office and industry organization, the British Telephone Technical Development Committee (BTTDC) is responsible for the development and standardization of exchange switching equipment, not only of its technical performance but also very often of its mechanical and electrical design and construction."
"Ideal conditions for voice frequency telephone repeater operation consist essentially of having line facilities with infinite “return loss.” In practice, these conditions cannot be achieved, nor need they be. All that is actually needed is an adequate degree of balance at all frequencies of interest between two circuit elements, such as a line and its balancing network, to permit deriving the required amount of repeater gain and still to have a 3 to 6 db (decibel) margin of gain before oscillation or “singing” occurs."
"Recent experimental results verify that easily implemented codes can detect essentially all errors occurring in digital data sent over toll-grade telephone circuits. A 2-way communications system uses these codes, first to find and then to request a retransmission of any data in error. The feedback logic is detailed herein, and the buffer required to adapt the system to various data sources is discussed. Extrapolated experimental results indicate an average delivery rate in each direction of approximately 7/8 the modem (modulation system) bit rate with a mean time to error of several hundred years. The philosophy which guided the design of this system can be applied to other media, where high noise bursts or low signal levels occur infrequently."
"A trend toward development of nonbinary digital transmission systems has been growing for several years. Much effort has been expended on attempts to optimize digital transmission efficiency, either in terms of speed, reliability, or some other parameter."
"Executives of various large corporations, for more than 20 years, continued to request some type of universal hands-free telephone service for their sizable conference rooms. Their objective was to be able to hold important consultations between conferees within such rooms and an absent person or persons located at some distant place but accessible to the conference by telephone connections."
"To the nontelephone engineer, the title of this paper may suggest difficulties involved either in raising a drawbridge or removing some dental hardware. Actually, bridge lifting is a telephone problem in exchange switching and subscriber loop layout."
"An accurate and practical solution to the design of linear negative temperature coefficient resistive networks, which will improve system performance over defined temperature ranges, is described herein. The basic circuit is a nonlinear negative temperature coefficient semiconductor, generically known as a thermistor, in parallel with a shunt. The temperature range of utilization of the basic circuit is about 60 C (degrees centigrade). Two or more of these basic circuits are connected in series to provide nearly linear characteristics over an extended temperature range. Graphical presentations of the basic circuit characteristics are used in an original manner, the graphs being easier to use and more complete than those previously published. Proper selection by a graphical method of the basic circuits connected in series, for wider temperature range use, is explained, and an analytic discussion tells how the graphs are constructed. The errors caused by circuit tolerances and self-heating, and the selection of thermistor materials, sizes, and shapes are outlined. Typical examples illustrate the use of the graphs and techniques. Application of the networks to temperature compensation and temperature measurement, as well as extension of the techniques to nonlinear applications, receive careful thought."
"A saturable-core magnetometer for measuring magnetic fields of the order of a fraction of 1 ma (milli-ampere) turn per cm (centimeter) is suggested. Its operation is based on a saturable-core element, wherein position-modulated voltage pulses are induced, their shift being linearly related to H0, the field under investigation. By means of a simple analyzer, information about the unknown field contained in the position-modulated pulses is translated into a d-c voltmeter indication. Linearity, sensitivity, and zero-drift - as influenced by parameter variation and temperature changes - are examined. Agreement is checked between experimental results and those anticipated from theory."
"The first taut band suspension instrument completely developed, designed, and manufactured in the United States was introduced by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation in June 1958. This instrument, a switchboard type with a d-c moving-coil mechanism and circular scale dial, described in detail in a previous paper,1 has been in full production for commercial and military applications for more than a year."
"Certain classes of switching functions, notably the symmetric functions, are realizable by iterative networks.1‾3 It is the purpose of this paper to generalize this concept."
"Flux reversal in grain-oriented nickel-iron tape cores has been described by several models during recent years.1,2 Some difference of opinion, however, still exists with regard to the initiation of the process.1 New evidence is here set forth that nucleation and initial growth of regions or domains of reverse magnetization occur near the tape surface for applied fields sufficiently larger than the coercive force Hc of the material. Fields at least twice the coercive force will be considered. More evidence is still needed to substantiate models for fields only slightly in excess of Hc. Initial growth will be discussed, both for cores previously saturated and for those not saturated when flux reversal was initiated. The latter case, though of particular interest in many applications of “square-loop“ magnetic cores, has not been treated adequately so far."
"The general electric company extra-high-voltage project (called “Project EHV” for short) was announced in June 1958,1 after more than a year of preliminary planning. Project EHV involves the design, construction, and operation of a complete a-c transmission system, which will carry power first at 460-500 kv and then at 650-690 kv (750-kv maximum). This is more than twice the maximum voltage presently used by utilities in the United States and Canada and 50% higher than the highest transmission voltage in the world -500 kv in the Soviet Union. Detailed planning, cost estimating, and writing of the specifications for the line and apparatus were essentially completed on May 27, 1959, when construction was begun at the site and in various plants of the co-operating companies. Construction is proceeding and energization at 460-500 kv began in December 1960."
"Electrical failure of the surface of insulating materials can occur in several ways. These include: 1. Air breakdown (flashover) which transfers to the adjacent insulation surface. 2. Thermal degradation of the surface (from arc interruption nearby, etc.) which temporarily or permanently damages the surface so that electrical failure occurs. 3. Partial volume breakdown, particularly of alminates, just beneath the surface which produces thermal or other degradation so that final failure ultimately occurs on the surface. 4. Surface degradation from electrical corona starting initially in limited surface areas exposed to voltage gradients high enough to produce localized air breakdown. 5. Progressive failure across the surface resulting from tiny arcs (scintillation) caused by conducting, or partially conducting, surface contamination."
"A system of “TKM” logic, based on 3-state threshold devices, Kirchoff adders (i.e., summing amplifiers), and linear amplifiers is proposed. It is shown that TKM logic can realize any multiple-valued truth table, and that the length of the alphabet of truth values may be arbitrary. This logic is shown to be particularly well suited to the synthesis of variable-radix adders, in which alterations of the radix are obtained by adjustments of the gain or attenuation of one or more amplifiers. When TKM is used in conjunction with a proposed “symmetric analog coding” for the representation of numbers, the generation of r-1 complements and, as a consequence, the execution of r-ary subtraction and division, are facilitated. It is conjectured that the feasibility of variable-radix adders is a step toward the realization of adaptive computation at the hardware level."
"Over the past 4 years, military groups have had under development components and accessory parts for electronic equipment destined for ultra-high-temperature and intense nuclear radiation applications. High-speed flight, an approach to miniaturization and reentry problems all promise ambient temperatures for electronic gear as high as 500 C (degrees centigrade). The anticipated launching of a nuclear-powered aircraft introduced the new environmental requirement, nuclear radiation. One of the component developments concerned is for 500 C electronic power transformers and has been sponsored by the Air Force under two contracts, AF33(616)-3623 and AF33(616)-5579. The purpose of this and a companion paper, Part II,1 is to summarize the outcome of this development in a form meaningful to design engineers. Design considerations, the subject of this paper, examines the basis for the selection of materials, their mechanical arrangement, and the calculation of coil temperature rise. Using these essential data, Part II1 then presents a digital computer optimization procedure that yields a minimum-weight transformer design."
"A design optimization technique for 500 C (degrees centigrade) electronic transformers makes possible the determination of core dimensions, flux density, and other parameters needed to achieve minimum weight. Certain constraints on these parameters, however, must be satisfied, chief of which relate to performance specifications: power output, regulation, and temperature rise."
"With the increasingly higher peak power requirements for radar, thermonuclear research, and other purposes, the electromechanical generation of such pulsed power is becoming more and more important. An electromechanical pulse generator or simply an electromechanical pulser, as such a device may be called, can take a variety of possible forms.1 However, generally any of the possible forms can be reduced electrically to a system of two or more coils, connected both inductively and conductively. Inductive coupling is basic to the functioning of the device, whereas conductive coupling can help to increase the useful power output."
"Corona field in the usual electrostatic precipitator is energized by half- or full-wave rectifiers operating at line frequencies, the rectifier output being filtered by the capacitance of the precipitator itself. Analysis of the equivalent circuits involved is somewhat complicated. The rectifier, by nature nonlinear, must be considered as well as the nonlinear electrical characteristic of the corona field. Hence, only certain easily measured quantities, such as average current and voltage, customarily enter into a determination of performance of such circuits."
"Turn-on time is the time interval required for decreasing the forward voltage occurring across a cell to 10% of its initial value after a gate current is applied. It contains two parts: (1) delay time \" the period needed for the voltage to reduce from 100% to 90%, and (2) rise time \" the period during which the voltage reduces from 90% to 10%."
"The effects of amplitude distortion are frequently of considerable importance in the design of transistor feedback amplifiers. The analysis of distortion in a transistor amplifier is inherently more complex than in the vacuum-tube counterpart because of two factors. First, the transistor has an input conductance which is nonlinear and of appreciable magnitude in the normal operating frequency range of the device. Second, the device has internal coupling from output to input connections."
"The many and varied aspects of transistor amplifier sensitivity to changes in temperature and transistor unit replacement have received considerable attention in the literature. Numerous investigations have been reported pertaining to the thermal displacement of the transistor operating point and the variation of its incremental parameters with the shift of the operating point and with temperature.1‾5, 7, 10&16 Furthermore, various schemes for stabilizing the operating point have been considered in detail,3,7,8,9,12‾16 and design procedures for specific as well as generalized bias network configurations to effect this stabilization have been proposed.3,6,8,12,16"
"Electrostatic precipitation of dust may be considered as occurring in two stages: the charging stage, in which the dust particles are charged by an ion stream, and the collecting stage, in which the charged particles are deposited on one electrode by an electric field. The two stages proceed simultaneously in the industrial-type precipitator. The efficiency of the collecting process depends among other things on the effectiveness of the charging process: the particle charge should be as large as possible."
"The tunnel diode d-c converter serves to generate direct current of a desired potential, when the d-c supply is only a fraction of 1 volt, as may be encountered in connection with silicon solar cells; thermoelectric, thermionic devices; chemical fuel cells; and others. Not only will this paper describe such a converter but also demonstrate how to analyze circuit problems involving a highly nonlinear device, such as a tunnel diode; furthermore how, by intensifying a nonlinearity, the analysis of a nonlinear problem becomes simpler. The price paid for this simplification is reduced accuracy, but this price often appears attractive because of the radical problem-simplification which can be realized."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In mid-summer of 1960, from June 27 to July 7, the first International Congress of Automatic Control was held in Moscow at the Moscow State University. There were about 1100 delegates from all over the world, and they came to hear 285 papers concerning control theory, applications, and components as well as to visit various industries and institutes and to meet the Russian scientists and the Russian people."
"The Professional Group on Automatic Control is coming into its own. The ardent work of many an individual both in the national and chapter organizations has borne gratifying, if not remarkable, fruit over the past six years. We have come a long way over a rather short time, as many important achievements can testify."
"Of the ten papers featured in this issue, half of them are devoted to theoretical optimization of control systems and the rest pertain to application of theory and physical control problems."
"Consider the usual sampled-data control system in which the sampler is followed by a zero-order hold and the transfer function is G(s) = 1/s(s+a). Saturation is represented by the fact that the forcing function applied to G(s) may not be larger than 1 in absolute value. The problem is to determine a saturating zero-order hold forcing function which forces the system from an arbitrary initial state to equilibrium in the least number of sampling periods. Such a forcing function is defined as an optimal strategy. The state plane is divided into boundary states and interior states. To each boundary state corresponds a unique optimal strategy. To each interior state correspond infinitely many optimal strategies. From the system parameters a polygonal curve, called the critical curve, is defined in the state plane. An optimal strategy is then proposed in which the required forcing function is simply obtained by computing the distance of the representative point in state plane to the critical curve. A simple computer is proposed to implement this optimal strategy. Finally, the proposed optimal strategy is shown to reduce in the limit as T→0 to that of the corresponding continuous system."
"Practical extension of time-optimal control to systems of higher order than three has been limited primarily by difficulties in physically representing surfaces in a phase space of these higher dimensions. A method is presented here for obtaining the forcing function as a function of the state variables without requiring use of the phase space concept. On line solution of a set of transcendental equations is required. Results of a digital simulation of a fourth-order, real-root, single-degree-of-freedom system are presented. In a digital solution the system operates as a series of short open-loop control intervals. The effect of including derivatives of the input for prediction is shown for second-order model inputs."
"An increased amount of emphasis on the mathematical formulation of control system performance can be found in recent literature on automatic control. There are two areas of control system theory in which the application of performance measures is of interest: 1) the evaluation of control system designs in general, and 2) the design of adaptive control systems. In the former case, the performance measure is becoming an increasingly important aid to the control system designer. In the latter case, the performance measure takes on even greater significance, since adaptive systems include, by definition, a performance measure as an essential function which permits correction of system dynamic response during actual operation. Furthermore, the over-all evaluation of the adaptive loop itself presents new problems in the choice and use of performance criteria. In the past, emphasis has been placed on various types of integrals, such as integral of error-squared and integral of the product of time and absolute error (ITAE); present emphasis is being placed on forms of integrals of a more general type; the trend for future emphasis appears to be in applications of statistical concepts and in attacking the problem of choice of the error measure in the adaptive system."
"The use of sinusoidal parameter perturbation applied to a feedback control system to obtain an adaptive scheme which optimizes the system for changes in inputs and/or system parameters is discussed. It is shown that if a parameter perturbation signal is cross-correlated with the system error squared, the correlator output can be used to adjust the parameter to minimize the mean-square error. Other error measures may also be used. Two or more parameters may be simultaneously adjusted if they are perturbed at different frequencies, and each provided with an independent adaptive loop. A computer simulation of a third-order system having two adjustable parameters was examined for a variety of inputs including random signals. It is shown that the scheme minimizes the mean-square error in all cases."
"The linear prediction theory is examined using a mean weighted square error criterion. A specific nondeterministic weighting function is used. The problem is reduced to that of solving integral equations which are written in terms of correlation functions which can be calculated by averaging over the ensemble. A complete solution is given for the problem using Gaussian statistics with no correlation between noise and true signal."
"A design method for control systems that minimizes the spectral bandwidth of the plant input signal is discussed. The plant input signal is minimized subject to the constraint that the integral square error for deterministic inputs or the mean square error for random inputs be limited to a known desired value. The control system transfer function that satisfies these requirements is derived, and the functions used in bandwidth shaping are discussed. An example of a system design using this technique is given."
"The performance of linear networks in the presence of carrier-suppressed modulation is re-examined in the light of the latest advances in theory. Both analysis and synthesis methods are presented."
"Figures of merit, besides those of performance, are discussed relative to the attitude control system of a vehicle capable of leaving and returning to the atmosphere. In addition to extreme changes in flight condition, these applications are subject to variations in configuration and performance requirements. Traditionally, control optimization has been concerned with minimizing or maximizing a variable system function such as error. Quite often these error criteria are replaced by other criteria such as invariance and the capacity for adaptability. In fact, during a complete mission including exit to re-entry it is desirable to utilize variable figures of merit. Examination of the control requirements of a modern returnable space vehicle illustrates how the various figures of merit dictate the design configuration. In those phases of the mission where self-adaptive control is employed, the figure of merit is usually determined by the particular technique selected. It is further demonstrated how the figure of merit varies with the mission phase as the control actuation configuration changes."
"The design of a feedback control system containing an element with proportional variation of gain and time constant is a common problem encountered by control engineers in practice. The problem includes the stabilization of a system, which is open-loop unstable when both the gain and the time constant of the element are negative. This paper presents a method for analyzing the transient response of systems containing the aforementioned element, and designing the systems to meet transient specifications."
"A method is presented for evaluating the transient response coefficients of response functions having poles of any multiplicity. The calculations are effected by use of a recursion-type formula with data obtained from distance and angle measurements on the root-locus plot of the system being analyzed."
"The system described by Braun is similar in philosophy to the system described by Mishkin and Haddad. In the latter, an attempt was made to drive the error and its derivatives approximately to zero by the end of each control interval. In the system of Braun, it appears the error and its derivatives are to go instantly to zero at the start of each control interval and to remain approximately zero for the duration of the control interval. This is physically impossible in any real system. That is, with finite power we cannot achieve instantaneous change in the output."
"Two digital computer programs were written last year at North American Aviation, Inc., in connection with the analysis of multirate sampled-data systems, which might be of interest to people engaged in similar analysis work. The systems under consideration were more or less like the block diagram of Fig. 1."
"The concept of stability plays a dominant role in control svsterns, However, the classical definitions-ior example, A linear varying-parameter system is defined to be stable if and only if every bounded input produces a bounded output v-r-suffer from some important shortcomings. One of them is that knowing that an output will be bounded is generally not sufficient. The exact value of the bound must also be known. In addition, the time interval of interest is often only of finite length, A case in point is that of a missile whose operation lasts only a finite time and whose variables must be restrained to certain critical values in this time interval. To overcome some of these difficulties, the following definition is proposed:"
"In the early development of the sampled-data field, it was assumed that the sampling pattern is periodic with fixed period T, that the pulse width is of negligible duration, and that these short pulses are represented by impulses. Based on this representation, several analysis methods were developed, among them the s-transform method [1]–[3], the difference equation [4]–[6], and the state-variable approach [6], [7]. Following recent extension and research in this field, these preliminary assumptions have been relaxed to a large extent, so that wider application and more general methods of analysis could be developed. In the discussion of the first category on the fixed sampling pattern, it can be easily observed that the s-transform method with its various extensions is applicable to deal with all the indicated cases."
"It is known that linear time-invariant discrete systems can be described by constant coefficient linear difference equations. One of the problems in the analysis of such systems is the test for stability. These tests involve both graphical procedures such as Nyquist locus, Bode diagrams and the root-locus, and analytical methods such as Schur-Cohn1 or Routh-Hurwitz criteria. Because of the high-order determinants to be evaluated using the present form of the Schur-Cohn criterion, many authors have used the bilinear transformation which maps the inside of the unit circle in the z = eTs plane into the left half of the w plane and then applied the Routh-Hurwitz criterion. This transformation involves algebraic manipulation which for higher-order systems becomes complicated."
"During a discussion of the IFAC Moscow Congress at the JACC meeting in Boston, it was mentioned that the Russians knew more about control work in the Cnited States than Americans know about similar work in the CSSR because they have excellent translation facilities which are not available to engineers in America. However, Nathan Cohn, representing the Instrument Society of America (ISA) announced that translations of four leading Russian journals have been made by the ISA for the past three years to benefit any individual or organization interested in Russian developments. Yet in spite of the relatively modest cost and the apparent desire to obtain translations of Russian papers, there have been very few subscribers. It was thought that perhaps there has not been enough publicity about this service. Because the Russians have been leaders in the development of control theory, it is important for control engineers to be aware of the progress that they are making. For those who are interested in obtaining more information about these ISA translations, the following ISA announcement is quoted:"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Among the major challenges to the engineer in the next decade are increased emphasis on research and development, greater automation and mechanization of our manufacturing and administrative processes, and establishment of more manufacturing and service facilities abroad."
"A brief description is presented of a solid-state device, a ruby maser, that utilizes the principles of microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation (maser). Experiments under way point to a new medium of communication in which a beam of light is used to transmit vast amounts of information from one point to another."
"THE DAY was October 21, 1879. A fragment of carbonized cotton thread in a small globe began to glow and a giant new industry was born. The man responsible was Thomas Alva Edison."
"THOSE OF YOU who know our medalist will not envy me my assignment. To compress even the highlights of Harold Osborne's career in a 10-minute span might just possibly be within the capacity of the very latest high-speed data processors. Certainly it is beyond mine."
"IN RECEIVING this outstanding honor I have a feeling of great pride and also of humility. This is a natural reaction to having one's name associated in this way with the great name of Edison, and with the long list of very distinguished men to whom heretofore the Edison Medal has been awarded. Mr. N. S. Hibshman's letter telling of this award reached me when I was nearly as far from New York as one can get on the surface of our little planet. I had no intimations of the imminence of eminence. You will note that in spite of my surprise, I accept the award quickly and firmly. And I do so with profound gratitude to the Institute for such extremely handsome recognition of my work."
"By agreement between the Bell Telephone Laboratories and AIEE, the Mervin J. Kelly Award — a bronze medal, a certificate, and $1,000 — may be made each year to an individual or group of individuals for outstanding contributions to the “advancement of the art of telecommunications.”"
"An investigation has been conducted to determine the dependence of interrupting performance of a-c circuit breakers upon the timing of contact separation. Test procedures, circuits, and results are described in this article."
"Tunnel diodes may be used to amplify, switch, or generate oscillations and can be combined with transistors to take advantage of favorable features of both devices. The tunnel diodes' basic circuit simplicity, high-speed operation, and various methods of combining them with transistors are illustrated and described."
"The fast-changing technical environment requires not only more engineers but a reorientation of curricula upon a strong base of mathematics and physics, greater volume of technical digests and abstracts to cope with the rising volume of technical literature, and increased inter-society co-operation to accommodate the dissolution of the boundaries compartmenting the electrical engineering field."
"Although the engineer has been very successful in harnessing the physical forces of nature, he has often failed to pay adequate attention to some of the mental forces that may threaten to destroy the world. In this article, some of the research which has been done in the important field of human relations is described."
"USING a few simple rules, it is possible to design a compensator which will provide a feedback control system with a pair of complex conjugate roots of a preselected value. This can be done while simultaneously maintaining any specified value of gain (Kp, Kv, Ka, etc)."
"IN ORDER to self-excite and regulate a d-c generator, a device is needed which can vary the current supplied to the shunt field of the machine so that regulated voltage results over a wide range of speed and load. In addition, it must provide some means of load sharing when one generator and its regulator are paralleled with one or more identical systems. In 71 C ambient, this can be accomplished by a carbon-pile regulator or by a switching-type regulator using germanium transistors."
"THE DUTY on electrical protective devices, among other factors, is determined by the extent of current asymmetry, which is a function of the circuit short-circuit ratio and the instantaneous value of voltage at which switching occurs. Asymmetrical current consists of symmetrical alternating current and unidirectional current. Depending on the current time constant, expressed either by the short-circuit ratio or power factor, the unidirectional current may be nearly damped out during the first half cycle, or persist for several cycles."
"OVER A PERIOD of several years a number of transformers and induction regulators supplying energy to aluminum pot-lines and similar installations have been damaged by insulation failures, apparently resulting from abnormal overvoltages. The transformers used for these applications generally step down from 13.8 kv to a secondary voltage in the range 600 to 900 volts. A basic impulse level of at least 40 kv is normal for the secondary winding. The fact that insulation failures occur on these windings is an indication of the severity of the voltage transients, and clearly shows that they are out of the range of normal switching transients. However, in many cases it is difficult to see how such voltage surges could invade the low-voltage system from the high-voltage side of the power transformers. This points to some other means of surge generation in the low-voltage circuit, and a likely cause is current suppression."
"THE AIEE North Eastern District Meeting will be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel in Hartford, Conn., on May 17–19, 1961. Electricity's part in the creation of ever widening and challenging new horizons will be the dominant theme of the meeting. In industry, in communications, and in power supply, new and expanding developments will be discussed at six technical sessions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"OUTSTANDING speakers with wide geographic representation will present 76 technical papers in 19 sessions at the AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting on April 19–21 at the Pick-Nicollet Hotel, Minneapolis, Minn."
"THE AIEE Winter General Meeting, held in New York City, January 29–February 3, 1961, at the Statler-Hilton and Governor Clinton Hotels, was well attended despite heavy snows and extreme cold. Attendance exceeded 4,500. There were 119 technical sessions at which 487 technical papers were presented."
"AN executive of one of the country's largest corporations, speaking from an intimate knowledge of the Institute, said recently, “AIEE is a large and very complex organization, the management of which is a task calling for careful definition of objectives, sound organization, and accurate measurement of performance.” Your Board of Directors has been applying itself to this task with energy and devotion. On Friday, January 27, 1961, just before the 1961 Winter General Meeting, the 11-man Executive Committee of the Board held an all-day session devoted to administrative matters to clear up the Board agenda for policy study. Then, on Friday, February 3, the last day of the Winter General Meeting, the 39-man Board put in a full day divided about equally between current business and long-range policy. The outline that follows reports in highly condensed form the essence of what the Board and the Executive Committee heard and did."
"REPRESENTATIVES of AIEE Sections met on Tuesday, January 31, during the Winter General Meeting to hear presentations by various Institute officers and Committee chairmen, and to discuss problems common to the Sections."
"THE 3rd AIEE Cement Industry Conference, sponsored by the Cement Industry Subcommittee of the AIEE General Industry Applications Committee and the Michigan Section, AIEE, will be held April 18–20 at the Sheraton-Cadillac Hotel in Detroit, Mich."
"SPONSORED by AIEE and the Professional Group on Communications Systems of the Institute of Radio Engineers, the 5th National Symposium on Global Communications (Globecom V) will be held at the Hotel Sherman, Chicago, Ill., on May 22–24."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE DREDGE ALASKA, built at the Houston, Texas, plant of Todd Shipyards Corporation for the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company, Chicago, III., with an electrical system designed by the General Electric Company, is one of the largest hydraulic dredges built in recent years."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"… Call Pythagoras and bid The sage to mark the laws divine which rule Each planet's course; and when he reads and sees Such harmony amidst the countless worlds, Trembling with joy his heart will overflow Before the sacred concert of high reason. — Oersted, The Soul in Nature"
"A broad view is presented of the road being opened to mankind by the rising influence of automation on the animate and inanimate sciences. Automation is effecting radical changes in the very nature of labor; such crucial problems as the origin of life, the fate of the earth as a planet, extraterrestrial life, are being solved with its aid. An imposing future is predicted — provided there is peace."
"TWO PROGRAMS for the IBM 650 digital computer have been developed by the Detroit Edison Company for computing the symmetrical component impedances of 3-phase 60-cycle open-wire transmission lines. One program obtains the data for a complete line with due consideration for any changes in configuration from tower to tower; the other obtains the data, on a “per mile” basis, for a fixed configuration. Fig. 1 is a block diagram of the “per mile” program. Limitations on the programs are: 1. Lines are assumed to be fully transposed. 2. Towers carry no more than two circuits. 3. Each circuit has only one conductor per phase. 4. Each tower may have no ground wires, one ground wire, or two identical ground wires"
"Devices for protection against transient overvoltages should reduce these overvoltages to a safe value well below the breakdown level of the system without causing a power outage. D-c surge protectors utilizing two types of switching elements — silicon-controlled rectifiers and 4-layer diodes — are discussed."
"A long-range view of world needs — considering such factors as population expansion, food and energy requirements, natural resources, and the rise in standard of living — indicates that the technical manpower shortage is here to stay."
"Our needs for technically trained people may shortly be expected to outrun permanently our ability to satisfy them. Possible remedial measures by government, industry, educational institutions, and the engineering profession are suggested."
"THE hydroelectric development of the lower and middle Columbia River is unique: its exclusive development by low-head run-of-river projects is not encountered elsewhere on a river of this magnitude. From tailwater at Bonneville dam to the Chief Joseph forebay at 946-feet elevation, virtually all of the head is being developed by a series of overlapping hydro projects. A similar development is being planned for the lower Snake River up to its confluence with the Salmon River (Fig. 1). Projects existing or under construction are indicated by the solid symbols; those planned for future development by the dashed symbols."
"A discussion is presented of how best to utilize the dwindling portion of the engineering curriculum devoted to the rotating machine. A course of study of electromagnetism is outlined in which the rotating electric machine is treated as a separate topic rather than as part of a unified approach to all electromagnetic apparatus."
"A recently developed static variable-frequency variable-voltage power supply operates directly from a polyphase a-c power line to drive a synchronous motor. Speed regulation is perfect because of the synchronous motor constant-speed characteristics. Use of silicon-controlled rectifiers, together with unique logic circuitry, results in an extremely simple and reliable drive system."
"SYSTEM planning programs using simulation are designed to meet the objectives of long-range planning studies, which include an accurate evaluation of the economics of alternate expansion patterns. The economic effect of unit size, the worth of greater than normal unit reliability, and variations in system service quality all have been studied."
"Analysis of pinhole phenomena reveals possibility that high voltage may develop across cable insulation although the underground secondary system has no direct connection to overhead lines. Experience has shown that lightning arresters across the system bus will materially reduce cable failures. They will also limit the transient voltages caused by switching and similar surges."
"A METHOD has been developed for plotting root locus automatically by means of an analog computer. The control ratio of a feedback control system is given by"
"AUTOTRANSFORMERS in power systems are usually Y-connected and commonly have delta-connected tertiary windings. Is the tertiary winding needed? If needed, what should be its size? These are two questions to consider when applying an autotransformer."
"A recently developed technique known as the fluidized bed coating process makes it possible to combine the best features of plastics and metals in almost any configuration. The three coatings most frequently used in the electrical industry — cellulosic, vinyl, and epoxy — are described and compared."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This photo of the United Engineering Center (UEC) was taken March 27 from the north east corner of 48th Street and United Nations Plaza in New York City, USA. Completion of the 20-story structure is expected this year. This slim tower of glass, stainless steel, and limestone rises from a broad 2-story base of glass and stone. The new building, which is 283 feet high, will provide 260,000 square feet of floor space. This structure will replace the 52-year-old Engineering Societies Building on 39th Street which houses some of the societies which will locate in the new Center. Eighteen American engineering groups will occupy the new building."
"TINY TRANSMITTER demonstrated by International Rectifier Corporation's research chimpanzee Murph and engineer Harvey Hanish is part of company's new ground monitoring equipment for checking heart conditions of astronauts in space. Electrodes taped on chimp's chest transmit heart data instantly from out in space; information is continuously recorded on oscilloscope."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, doube-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Some of the basic assumptions of the AIEE are re-examined to help the engineer obtain a true perspective of his social contribution. His responsibilities to the public, his profession, and company are examined so that his activities can redound to the mutual benefit of all concerned."
"Last year marked the 75th anniversary of the first commercial installation of the transformer. In this article a brief history of the) early days of the transformer's development is presented."
"IT HAS LONG been known that when a highly unsymmetrical (Imin ≠ Imax) current magnetizes a closed iron core in an inductor or transformer, the optimum design includes an air gap in the core to reduce saturation. The presence of the air gap has two opposing effects: (1) it increases the reluctance of the core to both the biasing (d-c) magnetization and the incremental (a-c) magnetization, and (2) the shift of magnetic operating point due to (1) reduces the reluctance of the iron to the incremental magnetization. If a permanent-magnet slab is used as a counterbiasing means instead of an air gap, the magnetic operating point may be shifted toward the maximum incremental permeability point with a gap much shorter than the optimum air gap. The direct increase in reluctance is then much smaller than in the air-gap case, and the inductance is much larger. A given core size can supply a larger inductance or, conversely, a smaller permanent-magnet-gapped core can supply the same inductance as a larger air-gapped core."
"The problems, responsibilities, and achievements of both science and technology are discussed in an effort to dispel some widespread misconceptions concerning the role of each. Both are important and each derives expanded scope and significance from the other."
"From modest attempts to transmit data over short distances, telemetering systems in the pipeline industry have been developed which can transmit practically any variable to any desired point. Although present systems are highly sophisticated, many problems remain to be solved. A review of pipeline systems from early beginnings should help clarify these problems."
"To contain and heat the deuterium plasma used in fusion experiments, strong magnetic fields are necessary. Fields are produced by a system of coils receiving a rapid transfer of energy from large capacitor banks storing large quantities of energy. The problems involved fall within the compass of electrical engineering analysis and can best be solved by the engineer in his normal work environment."
"Three crucial factors in missile reliability are design, component quality and human error, with special emphasis on component quality. Success in our missile effort will not be achieved unless there are orders of magnitude improvement in parts reliability."
"MOST available methods for converting pulse height to pulse width use high-amplitude pulses requiring linear amplifiers, but its size and economy make the low-level, 2-transistor circuit used here most desirable. It achieves linear rundown, and a conversion from pulse height to pulse width can be achieved by adding a differentiating circuit. The circuit forms a linear rundown activated by a constant current generator discharging a capacitor. Because the rundown length is directly proportional to pulse height, it can convert pulse height to width efficiently."
"This is the second installment in the series on the new epoch in electrical science that such men as Oersted and Volta brought about."
"Features of a proposed electronic method for the transmission and reception of teleprinter code are described. Advantages include high accuracy of reception, variable speed, and substantial savings in cost and maintenance."
"The relative merits of incremental and conventional digital computers in air-borne real-time control are discussed on the basis of reliability, flexibility, and the specific applications to be considered."
"IT HAS long been recognized that the efficiency of a large rectifier unit cannot be determined accurately by input-output power measurements. The “segregated loss” method has been written into rectifier standards because it reduces greatly the errors inherent in input — output measurements of high-efficiency equipments. However, when determining the losses of the semiconductor rectifier itself, we must take into account the difference of wave shape of the cell currents in normal operation and in the test circuit. The high incremental resistance of the cells precludes the direct equation of losses for the same average currents at different form factors."
"GERMANIUM DEVICES, when correctly used, are capable of essentially infinite life. It was commonly assumed in early higher temperature semiconductor work that silicon devices and those of other materials — such as SiC and the III-V compounds — would have similar life expectancy. However, among the early silicon applications, a number of installations were encountered where unusually high failure rates were recorded. A common feature of these installations was that there were present a large number of “off-on” operations each day."
"A new recording technique is described that is practically instantaneous, providing storage densities up to 40 million bits of information per square inch. Frequency response exceeds 40 mc and both image as well as sequential information can be recorded. Its versatility and practicality are illustrated by noting its broad field of application."
"The problem of designing transistor amplifier bias circuits is one of resolving conflicting requirements of operating-point stability, gain, and gain sensitivity. In this article, a procedure is developed which permits the solution of the amplifier design problem by means of an orderly sequence of calculations."
"IN recent years power klystrons, traveling-wave amplifiers and various forms of crossed-field amplifiers and oscillators have been produced in relatively large numbers with essentially reproducible characteristics. Gradually, these devices have found their way into more and more sophisticated systems applications with the logical result that they are competing with one another with regard to the most desirable set of characteristics such as weight, efficiency, bandwidth, average power capability, and modulation characteristics. The Crestatron amplifier described here affords a means of optimizing several of these characteristics in one device for certain applications."
"QUANTIZATION, or round-off, takes place whenever physical quantities are represented numerically. A quantizer is an operator that assigns a value to a variable equal to its closest integer. Analog-to-digital conversion consists of both sampling and quantizing."
"THE 1961 AIEE Summer General Meeting will be held on the Cornell University campus at Ithaca, N.Y., starting with the informal tea on Sunday afternoon, June 18, and extending through Friday, June 23."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The complexity of modern electronic systems has brought about urgent needs for increased reliability and major reductions in size and weight. Microsystems present solutions to these requirements. Beyond providing answers to the immediate problems, microsystems will revolutionize systems engineering and manufacturing design procedures and tend to encourage standardization of basic subsystems."
"There has been an ever-increasing need for smaller and smaller, yet more and more reliable electronic equipment and components. In this article, some of the important aspects of the evolution of microsystems are considered."
"Several general requirements for microelectronic systems are most likely to influence the nature of the future product of the components engineer. These requirements are grouped under three main headings: power dissipation, topology, and reliability."
"THE ampere-turn gain is a fundamental quantity of ordinary saturable reactors. In the case of an ideal core material with a step-shape B-H characteristic (rectangular B-H line), the relation between load-winding ampere-turns ILNL and control-winding ampere-turns ICNC becomes a straight line, which for identical scales of ampere-turns subtends an angle of 45 degrees with the axes. Thus, in the idealized case, the ampere-turn gain represented by the slope of the control characteristic, ILNL = f(ICMC), is KAT = (ILNL)/(ICNC) = 1."
"Integrated electronics is the new frontier in the development of the electronics industry. It characterizes microsystems in which the number of parts are considerably less than the number of equivalent components. Some of the steps in the development of microsystems leading to the process of integrated electronics are briefly described and illustrated by several working devices."
"In microsystem design, size and weight reduction are not the sole considerations. Also important are strength, reliability, design flexibility, heat drain, and costs. Means for automatic insertion of devices and simplicity of interconnection should be provided. All these influences are illustrated in the discussion of the assembly of Microseal diodes and transistors, and small passive components, first into circuit cards, then into a subsystem."
"IN DESIGNING cylindrical holding electromagnets, which consist of a ferromagnetic core, with stationary and movable portions, interlinking a coil of wire, it is desirable to proceed from the specified mechanical and electrical characteristics directly to the physical dimensions of the magnet without the use of trial-and-error methods."
"The molecular electronics approach to microsystems considers the electronic function to be performed, then attempts to synthesize its characteristics within a suitable solid material. It is expected that this approach will lead to many new concepts in the realization of electronic functions."
"A theoretical analysis is presented on the operation of a computer logic component exhibiting current commutation between two hook collectors. A quantitative theory is established for the current-multiplying hook collector and for many factors contributing to the interaction between such collectors. Appropriate equations are presented in graphical form throughout a range of physical and geometrical parameters encountered in the design of a typical 2-collector structure."
"IN RECENT YEARS, improvements in lightning arrester characteristics have permitted reductions in transformer insulation levels and have led to extensive analysis and investigation of switching surges. Before the common use of reduced BIL transformers, switching surges were of no concern in most cases, since their magnitudes were well below the insulation strength of the windings. As transformer BIL is reduced, however, normal switching surges become a factor and arresters may be universally required for complete protection."
"In this article, means of using the phenomena of molecular electronics to perform logic are explored. Emphasis is on the 2-collector transistor, with occasional indications of the logical effects of more collectors."
"JOULEAN HEAT generated when an electric current passes through a conductor is considered to be an undesirable by-product by the majority of electrical engineers engaged in designing electric apparatus and, therefore, great care is taken to reduce it to a minimum in these designs. Electric heating element designers, on the other hand, are continually searching for new ways to generate more heat. In one respect, however, both the designer of electric apparatus and the designer of electric heating elements have a common goal in that both are desirous of dissipating the generated heat with as small a temperature differential as possible between the hottest point within their respective equipments and ambient."
"An important microminiaturization technique is that of realizing complex network components by means of resistive and dielectric films. A general method for analyzing these film-type networks, built around the theory of indefinite matrices, is presented and simple rules are developed for generating subnetworks from a given 4-terminal network."
"THE 1961 Pacific General Meeting of AIEE will take place August 23–25 in Salt Lake City, Utah. Registration will commence Tuesday evening, August 22, in the Hotel Utah which will be headquarters for the meeting. Hotel reservations are being accepted by the Hotel Facilities Committee, with F. O. Wald as chairman. Mr. Wald may be contacted in care of the Utah Power and Light Company, Box 899, Salt Lake City, Utah."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The affirmative answer to the question posed in the title is underscored by cogent arguments drawn from the author's 10 years of experience as a member of a state board of engineering examiners. A country-wide listing of state boards of engineering examiners is appended to the article."
"Multifold increase in international communication is foreseen within the next 20 years. To meet this situation, the Bell System has proposed a preliminary plan involving 26 ground terminals and active satellites in somewhat random polar orbits, 3,000 miles high. Broadband channels, each accommodating 600 telephone circuits, would be provided. Experimental relaying will be in co-operation with overseas telephone administrations."
"BONDED resistors made of semiconducting silicon carbide are widely used as valve blocks in lightning arresters. During severe duty they may fall thermally; it is the purpose of this article to develop analytical means of studying the thermal behavior during transient duty."
"THE GROUNDING of supporting structures and enclosures for d-c power circuits and apparatus has been a controversial subject ever since metal-enclosed power rectifiers and switchgear came into use in the electrochemical and other industries. Many users of d-c equipment naturally followed the well-established a-c practice of solidly grounding enclosures through a low-resistance conductor. Relatively few of these equipments included sensitive grounding protective relays. Many cases of serious injury and damage resulting from ground faults that might have been avoided by the use of grounding protective relays have been described earlier.1"
"To offset the low cultural and intellectual level of television programs in the United States, Dr. Du Mont proposes a Government-sponsored network to inject an antidote of high-level programming into the present banal fare offered the public."
"The Westinghouse — American Electric Power extra-high-voltage test line at Apple Grove, W. Va., was recently energized at 775 kv. The chief objectives as well as the physical features of this project are outlined."
"This is the third article of the series on the contributions of Oersted and his contemporaries to electrical science."
"An analysis of the fundamental concepts of the quantity calculus is attempted in order to answer the controversial question whether rationalization of electromagnetic equations is to be understood as a change of units or of quantities. It reveals that, from any point of view, the question can be answered only in the first sense."
"The simple speed-indicating device described possesses low inertia, low friction, no residual output at zero speed, and a d-c output voltage precisely proportional to speed. Although this tachometer is still in the prototype stage, it is anticipated that an instrument can be produced which would be superior to the types now available."
"THE DELIVERY of required voltage to the feeding point of distribution feeders, as limited by the circuit and load parameters, is the subject of this study. For this it is necessary to relate the simultaneous interactions of the following variables: station bus voltage, feeder load, feeder voltage drop, and voltage regulator range. The physical sequence of the essential components of a single-phase feeder is shown in Fig. 1."
"IN AWARDING the Lamme Medal today, we honor not only the recipient, but also the memory of one of the pioneers of the electrical engineering profession — Benjamin Garver Lamme."
"IT IS an honor and privilege to have been given the opportunity to outline the career of one who has earned the distinction of being awarded the Lamme Medal."
"IN ACCEPTING this fine gold medal commemorating a distinguished electrical engineer, Benjamin G. Lamme, I am gratefully aware both of the fortunate circumstances which time and again led me down an interesting trail of professional effort and of my enormous indebtedness to others — my associates, teachers, and students at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, Columbia, and especially MIT, where I have been privileged to work for nearly 30 years. I am indebted, as well, to a vast historical background of science and engineering, sparkling with such names as Thales of Miletus, Von Guericke, Faraday, and Roentgen."
"Although parametric amplifiers are commonly considered as components for use at microwave frequencies, there is no inherent frequency limitation. The gain and bandwidth relationships for a negative-resistance parametric amplifier can be used at a 60-cycle signal frequency."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A bold and imaginative approach to the use of nuclear energy — the wheel of space travel — is necessary if its potential is ever to be realized. If its true nature can be grasped, a vast realm of development will open for exploitation by many future generations of scientists and engineers."
"Since over 80% of our electrical engineering undergraduates intend to follow professional engineering careers, rather than careers in research and teaching, it is believed that a re-evaluation of the goals of electrical engineering education is required."
"The NEAR system, a recently developed means for rapidly alerting the population in case of emergency, operates by an alarm signal transmitted through the power lines. Operational requirements of the system and technical features of the receiver are discussed."
"THE General Electric Extra-High-Voltage Project (called “Project EHV” for short) comprises a complete prototype transmission system which operates at 500 kv, and will operate later at 700 kv (750 kv maximum). It was announced1 in 1958, but technical work and acquirement of the right of way had been proceeding since early 1957. The cost of the entire project is estimated at $7,500,000 and is being contributed by 11 co-operating manufacturers and one utility. Construction work on the site was started in May 1959 and energization at 500 kv of the North Substation and adjacent section of the line took place in December 1960. In 1962 the voltage will be raised to 700 kv. Plans call for testing until the summer of 1963."
"This is the fourth and concluding article of the series on the discoverer of electromagnetism and his epoch."
"THE value of the ratio of asymmetric to symmetric rms current is an important parameter in the evaluation of asymmetric current effects on electric protective devices. For the simple resistance-reactance circuit (Fig. 1), the ratio of asymmetric to symmetric rms current, for the first current loop, for different values of power factor of the circuit, and for varying points of short-circuit initiation on the voltage wave has been evaluated accurately. The instants of short-circuit initiation on the voltage wave which lead to the maximum values of the ratio of asymmetric and symmetric rms current for different power factors of the circuit can also be found."
"A control system must be reliable to the extent that component failure is infrequent, signal loss and component failure can be monitored, and servicing and check-out are easy. An electronic system having these features as objectives, and designed for adaptation to automatic start-up and computer-supervised operation, is described."
"HIGH-voltage motor-starter fuses, which afford short-circuit protection, are used in conjunction with a contactor and relays co-ordinated to protect the motor from excessive long-time overloads."
"The discussion, begun by F. B. Silsbee,1 is continued on the question whether the revealed differences between concrete and abstract quantities and units require separate names to avoid any ambiguity. The origin of these differences is clarified but the author contends that new names are not justified."
"Strong intellectual challenge is the most effective means of student motivation. Electrical engineering education during the past few years has been developing in precisely this direction. A 5-year experimental curriculum that helps stimulate the student's will to learn through this kind of challenge is described."
"IN A-C circuit-interrupting devices, the post-arc period immediately after current zero is of paramount importance. This period is characterized by the rapid cooling and deionization of the hot gases between the contacts, which build up the dielectric strength of the gap. Simultaneously, however, the circuit transients resulting from the interruption of the current impose a rapidly increasing voltage across the contact gap. This so-called recovery voltage may break down the gap and re-establish the arc."
"The conductive-sheet analog field plotter is a versatile instrument for the study of various types of 2-dimensional field patterns. By means of a field plotter, one can frequently optimize the design of a device without having to fabricate several experimental models. Thus, a substantial savings in both time and money can be achieved."
"IN 1960, a double-circuit 220-kv all-aluminum tower line, 2.8 miles in length, was erected as a part of the Philadelphia Electric Company's transmission program for the new Eddystone generating station."
"THERE HAS BEEN considerable demand for switchboard-type a-c ammeters and voltmeters of sturdy construction, good readability, small size, and low cost, as well as for instruments having uniform pointer positions for given electrical quantities, permitting scale interchangeability and comparison of readings."
"THIS YEAR, the AIEE Fall General Meeting will be held in Detroit, Mich., October 15–20, with headquarters at the Statler-Hilton Hotel. The technical program, inspection trips, and social activities will occupy the entire facilities of the Statler-Hilton during the meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Artist's conception of the 150-foot-diameter dish antenna for the Stanford radar telescope. It will be used for cosmic-distance measurements, surface explorations of the moon and planets, and for obtaining ionization data"
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The 2.19-million-kw Niagara Power Project, now well on its way to completion, will be the largest hydroelectric installation in the Western Hemisphere, if not in the world. The salient electrical design features of the project are described."
"Nearly all branches of engineering and science are to some degree involved in the design, manufacture, installation, and operation of electric conductors. Some highlights in the development of electric cables are recounted."
"Increased efficiency is the main benefit of superconductivity. Some power is needed to operate the refrigerator but it is extremely small. Reduction in transformer size is also important. Other advantages include an improvement in power factor, extended life, and automatic limiting of short circuits."
"Some interesting examples are presented of electrical measuring techniques in three principal areas of medical science: basic physiology; diagnosis of disease; and treatment of disease. Intracellular recordings, electrocardiography, flow-recording techniques, pacemaking, and defibrillation are among the specific methods discussed."
"On-line data processing systems are used for large-scale operations such as transportation reservations, bank transactions, and inventory control. Experience has shown that a system-oriented rather than a hardware-oriented approach is required in their design. Over-all characteristics and design techniques are described briefly in this article."
"A recently developed method for monitoring leakage by sensing molecular density instead of pressure is a major step forward in the protection of high-density hermetically sealed equipment."
"It has been proposed that AIEE turn over its traditional standards-making activities to the American Standards Association (ASA). The author, chairman of the AIEE Standards Committee, believes this would work to the detriment of the Institute, ASA, and electrical engineering itself. He sets forth personal arguments he hopes will generate a healthy discussion."
"The use of photoelectric devices to control street lights has grown rapidly in recent years. Many new types of devices have been developed but, in several areas, there is uncertainty as to how they can best be used. An analysis of the character of natural light at dusk and dawn is presented, and criteria for control of street lights is defined so that the user may evaluate the control devices to best advantage."
"A review is presented of the final report of the ASTM Wood Pole Research Program. The Report, massive and thorough, has as its basic purpose the dissemination of reliable knowledge to promote more efficient utilization of wood poles"
"Notice to Authors Strict compliance with the “Author's Guide” will save you time, delays, and unnecessary correspondence. For a copy, write to E. C. Day, 345 East 47 Street, New York 17, N. Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researcher"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Fuel cells will become practical initially in watt sizes, then in kilowatt and in megawatt sizes. As their development advances into the kilowatt range, they will stimulate brisk competition among the oil industry and electric and gas utilities for the opportunities of being the “single energy” source. When the megawatt size is reached, they will favor electric utilities over other energy suppliers Although the basic concept of fuel cells is not new, only in the past decade or two have scientists and engineers returned to it with renewed interest. This interest has resulted in part from the enormous rate at which we are depleting our fossil fuels and in part from the tantalizingly high operating efficiency promised by fuel cells."
"A system of marine navigation for channel, harbor, and bay areas has been developed that is independent of weather and darkness, and of human error. Two transmitters, operating on different frequencies, feed two cable loops located in the bed of the channel. Signals picked up and displayed on visual indicators guide watercraft along a 2-way traffic lane established by the cable loops Despite the progress in the field of communications in the last few decades, little advancement has been made in marine navigation. Present methods rely upon complex systems of buoys and markers which have become virtually impossible for a layman to understand and are even difficult for an experienced seaman to follow."
"In an effort to overcome some of the outstanding shortcomings of presently used electromechanical tripping devices, a static type using semiconductors has been developed. Advantages include greater accuracy, simplified field testing, greater flexibility, and reduced maintenance Low-voltage air circuit breakers rated at 600 volts and less are used as protective and switching devices on plant distribution systems. They may be installed in metal-clad switchgear, on switchboards, or they may be separately mounted. Designed to interrupt currents of 15 to 100 kiloamperes at 600 volts (and higher at lower voltages), these breakers are necessary for complete system protection where the greatest degree of service continuity is desired."
"By application of digital techniques to a speed-regulating system, it is possible to regulate the controlled variable to accuracies not attainable by other methods. The development of a typical system is described The development of digital technology over the past 20 years has opened the way to vast new areas of industrial uses. The number of such uses is already large and is growing at an accelerated rate as day by day the potential of these techniques gains wider recognition."
"Significant reduction of coil resistance is possible through use of a divided-winding technique. Since the two portions of the winding have equal resistance and the same number of turns, they may be connected in parallel as well as in series One of the most frequent problems in electrical engineering is the design of a coil to produce a magnetic field within a pole. The device may be a relay, a field coil, a holding magnet, a transformer, or an inductor. In general, the flux through the pole is the desired result; the power dissipated in the resistance of the coil is the price that must be paid. For some applications, such as relays, high-frequency transformers and ferrite-core inductors, efficient design leads to a coil with an outer diameter large compared to the pole diameter. In such cases it is possible to obtain a lower resistance per given number of turns by constructing the coil from two or more sizes of wire, with the smaller sizes on the inside, than by winding it with wire of one size. The improvement is generally not large but is often significant; there are substantial fringe benefits, and the added cost and complication are slight."
"A recently developed manufacturing process known as stitched wiring permits economical fabrication of circuits by automatic or semiautomatic methods The technique is now being used in the manufacture of multichannel telephone and telegraph carrier equipment With the advent of transistors and similar solid-state components, an investigation was undertaken of the feasibility of using printed or etched circuit boards in telephone-type multichannel carrier equipment. The result of this study was the development of the manufacturing process here described. It permits automatic or semiautomatic fabrication, and maintains excellent standards of reliability in the finished product. It offers a degree of repairability comparable to more conventional wiring."
"A satisfactory radio-influence level (RIL) can be achieved in a 345-kv transmission line using 945-MCM ACSR conductor bundled at 18-inch spacing, standard clamps, triangular space plates, and a horizontal phase spacing of 27 feet. Attenuation tests show that RI readings at one site are not materially affected by precipitation on the line a few miles away The Ohio Edison Company conducted laboratory tests (previous to the construction of 70 miles of the 345-kv line) to determine the corona and RI levels of the line hardware to be used on its 345-kv transmission lines and has conducted field tests on the completed transmission line to evaluate the selection of hardware. On January 31, 1961, the Sammis-Star North 345-kv transmission line was energized for RI testing; see Figs. 1 and 2. The tests ran for approximately 8 weeks."
"The needs of the space age have imposed a severe burden on information-gathering media, forcing a new approach to communication and control systems design. These systems are now tailored for system-to-signal compatibility and must reject unwanted statistical signals that enter as unavoidable disturbances. For this purpose the general and/or special purpose computer is an indispensable tool Communication and automatic controls, two disciplines which have matured quite rapidly during the last two decades, have acquired enough importance by now to initiate a true revolution in applied science and the associated industrial activities. The commencement of the space age is a most dramatic proof of their importance. Neither satellite orbiting nor space probing is imaginable without controls of high accuracies for the keeping of vehicles on predesigned trajectories, or without communication links of comparable efficiencies for endowing the vehicles with a scientific or other purpose."
"An equation, based on the highest switching surges and including safety factors, is developed for the limit of approach to live parts of transmission lines. The effect of temporary protective gaps is shown, and the mechanism of shocks experienced by linemen during loose contact with a tower is discussed. Such shocks, although harmless, are annoying and can be avoided by the use of conducting shoes Live-line maintenance is performed by many utilities with a high degree of safety at all voltage levels now used. It will be expedient to extend this practice to lines operating at voltages of 460 kv and over, but in so doing it seems advisable to analyze the possible hazards which may be encountered and to see how the present degree of safety can be maintained."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"President Warren H. Chase of AIEE and President-Elect Patrick E. Haggerty, Jr., of IRE at the AIEE Fall General Meeting in Detroit discuss plans looking toward consolidation of the two Institutes. Dr. Haggerty reported to the AIEE Board on October 20 that the IRE Board had two days before unanimously approved a resolution to proceed with merger studies. The AIEE Board also approved unanimously. The Resolution calls for the formulation of specific proposals on which each Board and the membership of each society must take action as required by their constitutions and charters. The Resolution as approved by the Board of AIEE follows. For President Chase's message on the subject, turn the page."
"The impact of microelectronics on the electronics development laboratory will be most dramatic, according to R. F. Redemske, Servomechanisms, Inc. VP. Highly automated vacuum equipment operating in air-conditioned rooms will turn out quantities of evaporated thin film devices in considerably less space than now occupied by electronics plants."
"Year-end progress reports from AIEE technical committees covering the six broad fields of engineering activity — communication, general applications, industry, instrumentation, power, and science and electronics — underscore what has become one of the chief characteristics of our time: an ever quickening pace of technological development coincident with the dissolution of traditional boundaries separating the fields of adjacent engineering disciplines."
"Ever since 1948, Electrical Engineering has published an annual pictorial review of some of the interesting and significant engineering developments of the year. Through the years, it has become increasingly more difficult to keep pace with our exploding technology within the confines of a limited number of pages. As a result, even with the addition of more pages, a relatively small number of significant developments can be covered. This year is no exception. Once again we are indebted to those who answered our request for illustrations. We regret that we could not use all of them. We are especially grateful to Bell Telephone Laboratories for supplying the sketches used as illustrations on some of the following pages."
"D-C control system design for generating stations built on the “unit” principle is discussed from the standpoint of segregation, reliability, and continuity. Localization of the d-c control circuit and an interposing 48-volt direct-wire supervisory system minimizes failure while retaining local control for emergency operation because of loss of control panels, circuits, or other central control room equipment From the Fall of 1951 to the middle of 1961, Consolidated Edison has added seven turbine — generators, which total 1,870 mw, to its system. There are presently in various stages of construction, four more units totaling 1,230 mw of additional capacity, with service dates to the Fall of 1963. Each of these units is, or will be, designed on the “unit” principle, that is, each unit is, or will be, completely independent of its neighbor in any of the generating stations in which it is located."
"The possibility of generating electric power by the electromagnetic braking of a high-velocity gas jet is discussed. Outstanding problems are assessed and suggestions are put forward for the solution of some of them, but the need for more research is emphasized The continued economic expansion of our society depends upon the growing availability of distributable power, and most of the burden of this increase will fall upon the electric power generating industry. The output of electrical generating plant doubles about every 10 years, but the demand is still greater than the supply. In spite of the vast amount of electric energy (about 1012 kw-hr) produced every year, the efficiency of modern fossil fuel power stations is only about 35 per cent. Any method for increasing this efficiency would be of great importance. The major loss of energy in the conventional process occurs during the conversion of thermal energy in the working fluid to mechanical energy at the electric generator; i.e., in the turbine part of the system. This conversion efficiency could be increased by raising operating temperatures, but there is a practical limit in machines operating with high mechanical stresses."
"Because the heart is a dynamic system whose rate changes with stimuli and time, it lends itself well to study by means of the analog computer. Experiments have been made on both the steady-state and dynamic response of the heart to vagal and sympathetic nerve stimulation The human heart is a very complex muscle-pump system which is controlled from several different areas of the body and by many factors. Because of the experimental difficulties and the complexity of the system itself, no complete mechanical or electrical model of the system has been constructed."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The conference papers listed here have been accepted by AIEE Transactions and will be open for written discussion."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Year-end reports from 38 technical committees record many noteworthy developments in the six broad fields of activity covered: communication, general applications, industry, instrumentation, power, and science and electronics."
"Advertisement."
"The importance of matrix inversion has become rather apparent in solving power system problems digitally. Computation of the inverse matrix is quite involved, however, and even with the largest computer, the inversion time runs high. The outright inversion of an n by n matrix requires operations proportional to the cube of n. For this reason, its use has been limited to certain repetitive-type problems such as the short-circuit study. In many instances, by taking advantage of favorable network configurations and using network techniques, matrix inversion can be obtained much more efficiently than with the outright inversion method."
"Electrical engineering as a science dates from the second half of the 19th century. The development of the telegraph industry, with its technical problems that were overcome only through fundamental research in electrical phenomena, furnished the greatest impetus to the growth of the profession and the establishment of its professional societies."
"The possibility of reversing single-phase squirrel cage induction motors simply by reversing the supply voltage at the terminals of the motor with a reversing switch has been investigated through experiments performed by the author and was found feasible. A very strong reversing torque was produced by reversing the voltage when the stator magnetizing current was near its maximum peak value. The motor was found to stop and reverse within 10 to 12 cycles."
"A discussion is presented of the principles, criteria, and techniques employed to carry out successfully an investigation into the practicability of multipurpose missile system test equipment. The prototype system subsequently built has demonstrated its operational flexibility, simplified testing procedures, and greater ease of maintenance."
"Operation of electrical connectors at altitudes in the range of 100,000 to 200,000 feet presents special problems insofar as electrical breakdown is concerned. Test criteria and means for achieving improved performance are discussed."
"The AIEE at the age of 75 is still growing and is still willing to adapt itself to the changing requirements that accompany that growth. One of the means of strengthening the Institute while accommodating recent growth is the program of Institute Technical Groups (ITG's), authorized as a result of the recent specific suggestion of the Special Task Force on Institute Activities and Organization, headed by Prof. W. A. Lewis."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 1961 AIEE Winter General Meeting to be held at the Statler-Hilton Hotel, meeting headquarters, and the Governor Clinton Hotel, New York, N.Y., January 29–February 3, will feature one of the largest technical programs in the history of the Institute. Social activities for which the Winter General Meeting is well known will again be outstanding. A group of varied and interesting inspection trips has been arranged, closely allied with the general session."
"The Edison Medal Committee of the AIEE has awarded the Edison Medal for 1960 to Dr. H. S. Osborne (AM '10, M '15, F '21, Member for Life), consulting engineer who retired in 1952 as chief engineer of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Dr. Osborne was AIEE president in 1942–43."
"Formal presentations of the Eta Kappa Nu Association awards to the Outstanding Young Electrical Engineer of 1960 and honorable mentions will be made at a banquet on January 30, 1961, during the AIEE Winter General Meeting. The banquet will be held in the Governor Room, Hotel Governor Clinton, 7th Ave. at 31st St. Dinner will start at 7 p.m., and the cocktail hour promptly at 6 p.m."
"The 7th National Symposium on Reliability and Quality Control will be held January 9–11 at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa."
"More than 260 engineers from 37 states, Canada, Great Britain, and West Germany, attended the AIEE 2nd Power Industry Computer Application Conference, held November 9–11, at the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel in St. Louis, Mo."
"United Engineering Trustees, Inc. (UET), has announced at its headquarters in New York City, the election of W. F. Thompson, of New Haven, Conn., as president."
"The annual president's report of the corporation and its Departments for the fiscal year October 1, 1959, to September 30, 1960, has been issued for the 56th year of the United Engineering Trustees, Inc. (UET) to the Board of Trustees and the Founder Societies."
"J. H. Anderson (AM '36), formerly director of test and inspection, Electro-Motive Division, General Motors, La Grange, Ill., has been named manager of manufacturing facilities."
"A 2.7-mile-long power line to serve a microwave transmission station high in California's rugged coastal mountains was erected this Fall in only 10 hours by a 305-hp Hiller 12E utility helicopter."
"The U. S. Weather Bureau put into operational use recently an electronic computer-plotter that mechanically draws a complete weather map of the Northern Hemisphere in less than 3 minutes."
"A discovery that yields new scientific concepts and may make possible a new family of electronic devices was announced recently by the General Electric Company (GE). An electronic process known as “tunneling,” which has previously proved useful in carefully prepared semiconductor materials, has been observed for the first time in devices of simpler configuration. These devices consist of two metal films separated by a thin insulating layer, with one or both of the metal films in the superconducting state, that is, offering no resistance to passage of an electric current."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Industry's first harnessing of aircraft jet thrust as a source of stationary power began recently at Possum Trot in the hills of Kentucky near Clementsville."
"Institute members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, doube-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An approach to the mechanization of letter sorting called “codesorting” is presented. This approach utilizes a computer as an integral part of the system. The operational characteristics and requirements of the computer are emphasized."
"Machine-controlled presentation subsystems have been developed for the purpose of displaying information at electronic speeds. These systems transform the continuous flow of facts and data received by an organization into selected, significant information, which is then presented in capsule form to the decision maker for implementation."
"An idealized form of the radiant heat pump (RHP) is shown in Fig. 1 (a). The box has square ends, it is long and somewhat tapered, and is completely lined with perfectly reflecting surfaces. There is a plate suspended at each end. Each plate almost fills its end, and almost touches. The plates have a black-body coating. At roughly room temperature, 27 C, the radiant emission from each square inch, all in the infrared, would be 0.3 watt. Let both plates be brought to the 27 C temperature when first placed in the box."
"Cost comparisons are given for systems with primary distribution of 4.16 and 12.5 kv, as well as the more recently introduced higher voltages of 20.8 to 34.5 kv. Load densities varying from 1,000 to 32,000 kva per square mile are considered in the study."
"The Need for an accurate, reliable method of determining wire ratings has been apparent for some time. Present current ratings have been in use for many years and are unduly conservative because of the large safety factors included. The idea of the large safety factors undoubtedly came from the desire to allow for all possible uses of the wire. This does not make any allowances for different environments or service for the wire. With the increasing importance of weight and cost considerations, an accurate, reliable, and easily used method of determining wire ratings has become a necessity."
"The sharp increase of population in the San Francisco Bay area in California has expanded industry and greatly increased home ownership. The resultant demand for telephone circuits has created a cable and conduit problem which The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company is attempting to solve by means of an experiment that intensifies the utilization of the existing cable plant."
"The design and construction of elaborate electronic systems for instrumentation and control of test and research facilities is guided by principles and practices of standardization which reduce system cost and completion time. A summary of these standardization principles and practices is presented."
"The Joint Subcommittee on Development and Research, Edison Electric Institute and Bell System, has issued a 1960 weighting characteristic for telephone influence factor (TIF). This factor is dimensionless and provides an index of the inductive influence of a power system wave shape. Fig. 1 shows the new curve in comparison with its several predecessors."
"This is a fault-sensing and switching system serving as an automatic guardian of the quality of a broadband (1,300 kc) transmission channel. Acting upon a loss in transmission level or an increase in noise, it transfers a communication traffic load from a failing regular channel to a normally unassigned standby channel. Protection afforded by standby channel can be shared by three regular channels."
"The AIEE North Eastern District Meeting will take place at the Statler Hilton Hotel in Hartford, Conn., on May 17–19. Planning for this meeting has been under way for more than a year under the leadership of C. T. Hughes, retired vicepresident of the Connecticut Light and Power Company."
"The Joint District Meeting of South East District 4 and South Central District 13, scheduled for April 5–7 will be held at the Jung Hotel in New Orleans, La."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 1961 international solid-state circuits conference will be held February 15–17 at the university of pennsylvania and the sheraton hotel in philadelphia, pa."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 4th International Conference on Medical Electronics, combined with the 14th Annual Conference on Electrical Techniques in Medicine and Biology, will be held July 16–21 at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York, N. Y."
"The 2nd Symposium on Engineering Aspects of Magnetohydrodynamics will be held at the University Museum, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., on March 9–10. This symposium is being sponsored jointly by AIEE, the Institute of The Aeronautical Sciences Inc., the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the University of Pennsylvania."
"Ethical responsibilities in the recruiting of engineering college graduates, both on the part of the prospective employer, as well as the engineering graduate, have been a matter of interest and action on the part of the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) for many years. Proposed recruiting codes have been produced and reviewed with other interested placement associations, business groups and engineering societies, including AIEE and the Engineering Council for Professional Development (ECPD)."
"The forward march of our technological progress and economic growth requires the services of ever larger numbers of engineers working in industry, education, Government, and private practice. The first step toward increasing the engineering population to meet future needs is to attract additional qualified high school students to the study of engineering. This objective is being carried out by the Guidance Committee of the Engineers Council for Professional Development (ECPD) through a network of state committees which work directly with the schools."
"Progress continues toward the full realization of the stated objectives of the Boards of Directors of the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) and AIEE formally to extend the areas of collaboration in the interests of greater efficiency in the service of the profession."
"The AIEE Nominating Committee∗ met in the Boston Room, Statler-Hilton Hotel, New York, N. Y., 9:00 a.m., January 30, 1961, during the Winter General Meeting of the Institute, to nominate candidates for AIEE offices to be voted upon by the membership in the Spring of 1961. Representatives receive travel allowance. Alternates are required to attend only if called upon to serve in place of their representative."
"A. H. Morgan, chief, Radio Broadcast Service Section, Boulder, Colo., Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards, spoke before the Denver Section, AIEE, at its November meeting. His subject was “Time and Frequency Standards and their Wide Distribution.”"
"Conductors, energized at the world's highest voltage, are aglow with corona at General Electric's Project EHV. Corona, a discharge of electricity, is emitted because the three single conductors are arranged for a transmission of 460,000 volts, but are being energized at the new world high of approximately three-quarters of a million volts. Conductors coming into the transmission tower from upper right are without corona because they are bundled in groups of four — the proper arrangement for transmissions up to 750,000 volts. Later, all conductors will be arranged in this manner."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A significant scientific advance which, for the first time, will permit continuous generation of coherent light waves for possible space communications and scientific and industrial uses was announced recently by International Business Machines Corporation (IBM)."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"New weapons and weapon systems, differing radically in concept from our present weaponry, are urged as a means to gain a decisive lead over the USSR. To achieve this goal, research and exploratory development, especially in electronics, should be greatly expanded."
"The reasons for and the extent of the worldwide effort to harness light element fusion reactions for power production are described. A discussion of the physical problems to be surmounted and the different approaches being pursued in various world laboratories is presented. Future possibilities are considered."
"To obtain the highest breakdown strength over insulators in vacuum, the method of joining the dielectric to the negative electrode is of high importance."
"A description is presented of some control shield designs used commercially at 345 and 460 kv, along with results of laboratory tests indicating the trend of the art for multiconductor systems above 460 kv. Improvements in electrical performance and reduced capital costs are shown possible with towers designed for new suspension hardware developed for multipleconductor bundles."
"Counter-scaler units are used in many areas of electrical engineering and the physical sciences where measurement and control of pulse-type signals are required. Component circuits and operation are described of a scaler unit that can achieve any desired scaling factor by the use of feedback in cascaded binary circuits."
"This article describes a semiautomatic resistor test method and explains how this method implements the gathering of data necessary for reliability predictions. Also explained are the constructional details of the test system, including the various units and associated hardware."
"NAVIGATION LIGHTS provide the observer with the information required to determine the position or orientation of the aircraft and, thus, its direction of travel, so that a collision avoidance maneuver may be executed. One way to improve the aircraft navigation lights is to increase the intensity of the lights so they may be observed from a greater distance."
"RING buses as herein discussed are divided by circuit breakers into sections, each of which provides termination of a source or load. Each source or load may be connected to its section by a motor-operated air-break switch. Such a ring bus poses problems not encountered with a straight bus. A fault trips both circuit breakers of a section. When the circuit breakers trip, it is important that the ring be restored as rapidly as possible, since a true bus does not exist. If the ring should become open at another location, several problems may develop, depending on design. Generators can be isolated, the system split apart, relaying handicapped by separating zero-sequence sources, or loads dropped unnecessarily. It is important that a faulted line be isolated and the ring restored as rapidly as possible to shorten the vulnerable period. The best method of accomplishing this is to automatize the two circuit breakers and the air-break switch."
"Data presented herein make possible the evaluation of grounding resistances of switch yards of all practical sizes. Included is the consideration of the influence of all significant design parameters, such as conductor size and depth of the grid below the earth's surface."
"The voltage comparator described was designed for the purpose of measuring low-frequency noise in transistors. In addition, it can be used to study any noise phenomenon within the 50-to 5,000-cycle spectrum."
"This article summarizes several general approaches to automatic regulation and economy dispatch that have evolved in recent years and suggests a system of classifying them by their basic scope and method."
"At the Annual General Assembly of the Engineers Joint Council (EJC) on Thursday, January 19, 1961, EJC Vice-President G. E. Holbrook, chairman of the Council's Technical Planning Committee, reported that EJC is preparing to take leadership and urged active support of the member societies in resolving the important task of developing means to co-ordinate and minimize repetitive presentation of technical material. AIEE President Clarence Linder followed with comments which are of interest to our membership."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researcher"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"RE-ENTRY BODY attached to separation cone atop the test stand ready for the Discoverer re-entry body drop test at Lockheed's Santa Cruz Test Base. Note camera mounts on I beams. Cover photo shows re-entry body the instant following separation from the ejection cone."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper is a discussion of the system aspects of radio systems designed to use the new types of Personal Radio Equipments which have been, and are being, introduced to the market in increasing numbers and types. Several actual applications are discussed. These examples cover the two basic types of equipment now in use, which are two-way non-selective call units, and one-way selective calling paging units. The basic capabilities of the personal equipment are examined insofar as they pertain to Personal Radio System Design. The limitation and advantage of this equipment as well as the new uses and applications of this equipment are treated."
"The Citizens Radio Service is defined by the Federal Communications Commission as a radiocommunication service of fixed, land and mobile stations intended for personal or business radio communications, radio signalling, control of remote objects or devices by means of radio, and other purposes not specifically prohibited. Its stated purpose is to provide for the use of radio facilities by any citizen of the United States for private shortdistance radiocommunications, radio signalling, or the control of remote objects or devices by means of radio. The author traces its beginning, its progress, and its present situation, - and makes some predictions on its possible future."
"The assignment of frequencies by the Federal Communications Commission in 1958 for use by the Telephone Industry opened the way for obtaining more efficient plant operations through vehicular communications. The mobile communication system described in this paper was designed to serve the needs of the construction and maintenance forces in the Southwest District of the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania. The system employs decentralized dispatching which permits the supervisory personnel to use the service directly from their respective job locations. This is accomplished by incorporating the talking and signaling functions of the radio system into the standard Bell System 500 type telephone set normally used for the wire line service. Since the dispatch points are located in administrative offices where loudspeaker operation must be avoided, mobile to base station dial signaling is employed. Similarly, dial signaling from base to mobile was used to protect the public from indiscriminate loudspeaker operation. Arrangements are also provided for mobile to mobile calls on a dialing basis. This feature is of significant value to the foremen who supervise a number of cable or line crews throughout a relatively large area."
"The trend toward personalizing vehicular radio sets has been accompanied by major engineering problems. Of these, one of the most challenging is that of designing an efficient antenna to occupy a small space. Due to these size limitations, personal radio antennas will be referred to as small antennas. This paper will describe a series of tests made under laboratory conditions followed by a coverage study made under service conditions in city streets to evaluate the relative performance of small antennas and accumulate propagation data for system design. The laboratory measurements included a study of the properties of ferrite loop antennas, coils, whips and short wire antennas. The field measurements covered actual recorded field strength data from personal carried transmitters using reference quarter-wave whips. It was concluded that ¾-wave whips even when working against as poor a ground plane as the set chassis offered the best performance. However, the 20 to 25 db of shadow loss found in city streets plus a 10 to 15 db antenna loss even with whips will severely restrict the coverage of personal transmitters. Other steps may be necessary if adequate areas are to be reliably covered."
"The Western Division of Collins Radio Company has developed an electromechanical bandpass filter for use in the low frequency IF of split channel FM mobile receivers. The “Mobile” Filter has a 455 kc center frequency and nominal 3 db and 60 db bandwidths of 13 kc and 26 kc respectively. The filter is fixed tuned, enclosed in a third of a cubic inch package and was engineered with the idea of low price without compromise in performance. The Mobile Filter gives both the equipment designer and user excellent selectivity and stability, so essential when operating under split channel conditions, along with a flat amplitude response and low loss."
"Through the use of coils wound on subminiature ferrite bobbins, threaded ferrite cup cores and of newly released P.A.D.T. transistors, the T.F. strips of an FM communications receiver have been packaged into two compact, hermetically sealed, pre-tuned components. This ensures built-in optimum performance, reliability and standardisation of an important section of FM receivers for all frequency ranges and simplified maintenance. Similar developments for other sections of FM communications equipment and for Citizen's Band Radio are referred to in this paper."
"A mobile radiotelephone must include a selective ringing decoder which signals the subscriber when his particular telephone is being called."
"A centralized method of testing Mobile, Test and Base Station Transmitters “Off the Air” has always been considered desirable. With the inauguration of 450 Mc. narrow band common carrier telephone service with its more stringent requirements, a centralized method of testing has become almost a necessity. The Centralized Mobile Telephone Test Panel described herein can be used to evaluate the overall performance of a Mobile telephone system and can also be used as a tool to insure proper routine operation of a system. Provisions are made in the CMTTP for automatic sampling of each radio channel with statistical evaluation of ON-OFF frequency operation of mobile transmitters. The present unit is arranged to monitor on the 450 Mc. and Personal Signaling (Bellboy) services only. However, the test panel can be readily adapted for the 40 and 150 Mc. channels as well."
"Control circuitry integrate pieces of communication equipment into VHF communication systems. The control functions for simpler systems are adequately provided by standard remote control units, using options to provide for a variety of needs. More complex systems require special control circuitry and control consoles whose design is part of the overall system design. A duplex backbone system such as used on cross-state turnpikes is typical of such complex systems. Party line vs. multi-channel design of such systems is contrasted and use of various devices such as receiver voting discussed. Console design is illustrated by discussing features of the Massachusetts Turnpike Control Console. Range of control design is indicated by mention of two-way mobile telephone requirements and the potential field of remote control from portable control consoles, such as remote control of a switching locomotive."
"A signaling, supervision and radio technique suitable for multi-channel access in the VHF MTS band is proposed. The logic is based on the continued use of 600/1500 cps transitional signaling and certain existing methods of transmitting supervisory signals to the base terminal. Mobile identification is provided but is neither required or excluded. The availability of a mobile radio equipment which does not detriorate as a result of continuous channel switching is assumed. Signaling tone at either frequency is used to mark the idle channel on which the next call will appear or on which the mobile may seize the terminal. If the mobile is not locked on a channel marked idle, the busy indication is given. The logic of this technique is further detailed in a Table and is illustrated by tracing sequences of calls including special cases such as carrier fade, simultaneous seizure and the persistent caller with no answer. To illustrate feasibility a suitable mobile decoder and control unit is described which provides decoding, supervision and logical control. Component content of this design is tabulated. A possible configuration of a preferred mobile radio transceiver is proposed which employs synthesis type channel switching, linear detection and full duplex operation. The 13 crystals employed are shared by transmitter and receiver and only one is a high accuracy type. It is the object of this paper to encourage the adoption of a multi-channel access standard to serve the interval preceding the development of the broad band service by showing compatibility with existing technique and the feasibility of the required equipment."
"This paper introduces the subject of speech level control as applied to radio-telephone service by presenting statistical data describing talker level variations and anticipated levels at the telephone central office. Because speech measurements are difficult to make, mention is made of speech to sine wave relationships that are convenient for system line-up. Next, maximum levels are established for the output of the controller and application to the wire-line or the radio transmitter. The operational characteristics of three available types of level controlling devices are discussed. These are: the Agamp and Vogad which were designed specifically for control of speech levels into radio transmitters; the clipper-limiter commonly used in radio broadcasting; and the Compandor which is familiar in telephone applications. Recordings were made of these devices in operation. Analysis of these recordings as related to the “ground rules” established in the text allowed conclusions to be drawn concerning the most advantageous use of each. In discussing the use of level controlling devices, it is necessary to determine the nature of the signals that are to be controlled. Where telephone facilities are to be used, consideration must be given to plant practices. These practices as well as the transmitter input requirements will establish the output level limits for the device. Having an idea of the input and output requirements and taking into account unusual noise and environmental conditions, the next step is to examine the characteristics, and cost of available units to determine the extent to which they meet the system application."
"A plea for proper setting of deviation and frequency before a group having the stature of the PGVC would appear to be as necessary as a strong pitch for motherhood before the local PTA. Certainly everyone believes in it. Many two-way systems users have not, however, realized the full importance that these parameters have attained since the tight tolerances of the split channel have been imposed upon us."
"This paper deals with performance parameters used in designing a communication system, black boxes and all, rather than with the circuit parameters needed to design the individual equipments which make up the total system. There is a common language for use in the Land Mobile Services which should, but does not yet, have the stature of CCIF and CCITT specifications used by system designers In the field of point-to-point communications. The Electronic Industries Association (EIA) specifications for Land Mobile equipment are examined and their applicability to system design work is discussed."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An objective assay of this present issue shows the following key attributive factors: It has taken a long time to come into being, it is medium-to-long in size, and (we hope) it will prove long in quality."
"The responses of an ideal radio noise meter to continuous sine wave, recurrent impulses, and random noise are evaluated and tabulated. The ideal meter consists of a narrow-band linear low noise super-heterodyne network followed by a detector which responds to the envelope of the intermediate frequency and a dc voltmeter which indicates the detector output. Four detector circuits — peak, quasi-peak, average, and rms — are considered. Their “ideal” characteristics are defined in the text."
"The detailed study of interference of unwanted radio signals having arbitrary modulation, with a specified co-channel signal carrying the desired intelligence, forms the basis for this paper. Detailed information about the modulation characteristics, as well as the transfer function of the receiver from antenna to output channel, are needed in order to predict acceptance ratios, or what this author has called TSI ratios. In some cases, masking of one intelligence by another needs to be taken into account, in others, beat note interference is the prime culprit, while in still others, the mechanism is far more complex. Representative TSI ratios are deduced and presented for a large number of systems, but the set of figures is by no means complete."
"A digital computer has been programmed to evaluate the interference existing at each receiver in a large-scale army deployment involving about 20,000 receivers and transmitters. In order to reduce data handling problems, spurious responses are considered to be due to separate receivers and transmitters. Propagation path losses are statistically tailored to the terrain. The model is suitable for a parametric analysis of path loss, selectivity, spurious emissions, sensitivity, etc."
"Spectrum conservation and interference reduction are not mutually complementary in a field area complex. Spectrum economy implies minimum utilization of RF channels, whereas interference-free operation requires an extensive number of channels. A certain minimum level of interference is tolerable in practice. Therefore, it follows that a system designer achieves realistic spectrum economies by designing the frequency assignment plan for a “calculated risk” level of interference. Frequency assigners have, in fact, been doing just this sort of thing on a “rule of thumb” basis. An evaluation is made of what the use of such a practical rule means in terms of the probability of interference. The analysis is based on a statistical propagation model called “Universal Terrain.” A procedure is established for conserving spectrum when unlike combinations of equipment are employed. Curves of propagation loss and interference statistics are presented."
"The problem of ignition interference and its reduction has been emphasized in Europe, due to the simultaneous growth in both the number of motor vehicles, and in the number of FM and TV receivers. The paper reports the results of a large number of interference measurements made on automobiles and motorcycles. The data include the effects of various suppression schemes. As a result of these measurements, and taking into account existing European standards, a draft of an international standard was prepared for submittal to CISPR. This proposed standard covers both methods of measurement and limits."
"A common problem in measurements of harmonic content of transmitter outputs is the one of ensuring that the measurement is not erroneous, due to the presence of sufficient fundamental-frequency voltage input to generate a spurious response in the measuring instrument. Particularly there is the case of excitation of an instrument, tuned to fo, by a strong enough component of fo/2 to give square-law action."
"A topic of concern in the measurement of “antenna conducted” spurious and harmonic outputs of transmitters is the means of coupling the measuring instrument to the output line when the output is coaxial. A variety of techniques is observed in current specifications and practices. Essentially, they amount to a “probe” method, in which an inductive or capacitive pickup device (this includes waveguide-below-cutoff “Tee” attenuators) responds to the field in the line, a directional coupler which is connected to respond to the forward wave, or some sort of attenuator or voltage-divider network which is integral with a dummy load."
"A number of interesting problems arise in the measurement of insertion loss in a 50-ohm system of RFI filters while the rated ac or dc current is applied. This measurement is desirable when series inductors with cores other than air are utilized in the filter. Current standards do not, to the writer's knowledge, require that filters be tested for insertion loss in the condition in which they are applied in practice, in this respect. It is the purpose of this letter to detail some of the considerations in what is an RF measurement in the presence of low-frequency ac, or dc (designated power frequency in this letter)."
"One of the major functions of the FCC Laboratory is the prevention or reduction of interference caused both by radio communications equipment and by other equipment employing radio frequency. In both instances, the problems are very similar, except that radio communications users are generally more cognizant of the interference problem. The writer has hesitated to prepare a paper on the subject because much of the material and many of the recommendations may seem obvious to those experienced in the interference field. However, over the years, the same difficulties have arisen over and over again, so it appears that perhaps the gathering together of information and the presentation in a recapitulative tutorial manner may be of considerable practical use."
"This paper is believed important to Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) analysis. An example shows how the Electronic System Evaluator (ESE) is programmed to simulate a typical transmitter, including the nonlinearities causing the spurious and harmonic spectral components. The spurious spectrum measured on the ESE model closely approximates measured characteristics since the physical phenomena causing the spurious spectrum are included in the model."
"This convenient (a little larger than pocket-size) book is essentially a handbook describing briefly sources of interference and methods of controlling such sources primarily through the techniques of suppression and shielding. Included, however, are general discussions of radio noise and interference, methods of conducting interference investigations and of making quantitative measurements, and the principles of suppression. There are also detailed chapters dealing with the origin and specific methods of suppression of noise on power and distribution lines, high-voltage equipment, electric railway systems, wire communication systems, commutator motors and generators, thermostats, fluorescent lights, sign flashers, oil burning furnaces, electrostatic discharge, small generating plants, industrial, scientific and medical apparatus, arc welding equipment, elevators, and vehicles. The concluding chapters discuss interference in ships and in aircraft, and also radio interference standards in legislation."
"An experimental 150-MC personal signaling system has been set up in New York City to evaluate over-all technical performance and explore subscriber reactions to the system. The system includes pocket receivers equipped with tuned reeds and central office arrangements adapted for direct customer dialing. This paper describes the system in over-all terms, and tells how it was engineered. It also compares this system with the 35-MC systems and discusses traffic and radio transmission problems."
"In the present paper general formulas for the electrical admittance of a piezoelectric crystal, in terms of its resonant frequencies and static and motional capacitances, are derived and applied to the investigation of the effect of electrode shape on the spectrum of resonances and the capacitance ratio of the crystal. Particular attention is given in two cases of practical importance, namely, small piezoelectric coupling and thin crystal plates."
"The asymptotic behavior of the virtual delay in a single-server queue with order of arrival service is studied, under no restrictions on the stochastic nature of the arrival process and the service times, except for a weak stationarity condition. This behavior is shown to be governed by a functional equation closely analogous to the “fundamental equation” of branching processes, already used in special queueing models. A generalization of the Pollaczek-Khinchin delay formula is derived for the case in which delays do not build up."
"The equation x(t) = s(t) − k×F(x)(t), where s(·) is a given signal, F(·) is a nonlinear function, k(·) is the response of a linear system, and∗ denotes convolution, describes a general class of servomechanisms. Properties of a solution x(·) can be established by finding a fixed point in a specific set of a function space, using Schauder's theorem."
"The TE01 losses in long two-inch inside diameter circular waveguide lines were measured over the frequency range of 33 to 90 kmc using shuttle-pulse techniques. Experimental results obtained with two types of waveguide one solid-wall copper and one helix are presented. Loss curves for both types are given, along with the theoretical loss curve. Statistical results on TE01 loss variations due to mode conversion in the solid wall guide are also given. A new method for making shuttle-pulse loss measurements with a single backward-wave oscillator is described."
"Measurements of sky noise temperature at a frequency of 6.0 kmc have been made for various conditions of absolute humidity and precipitation. For an antenna beam position 5° above the horizon, the sky noise temperature was found to increase about 15°K from winter to summer due to the change in absolute humidity. During periods of rain, with the antenna beam pointed to the zenith, sky noise temperatures as high as 130°K have been observed, compared with the usual background value of 3° due to oxygen and water vapor. Theoretical calculations of sky noise temperature for typical dry and humid summer days are presented."
"The theoretical prediction of the Hall constant in metals appropriate to high magnetic fields depends, in part, on a repeated computation of a specific topological invariant: Each of several parallel two-dimensional planes in crystal-momentum space must be analyzed to find, on a single sheet of the Fermi surface, the number of nonintersecting closed contours that surround an arbitrary point. This number is related to the effective sign of the charge of the “relevant” electronic carriers in the plane — carriers whose contribution to the Hall constant is based on their orbital area. Applications of the technique discussed in this paper have been made to the Pippard model for copper, and various carrier contours are illustrated that were found in the course of three calculations of the Hall constant in cases where the magnetic field direction lay along a principal crystallographic axis."
"The use of various organic materials in submarine cable structures has brought about an interest in the anticipated behavior of such materials in a sea water exposure. Organic materials have been exposed in the laboratory at atmospheric pressure to marine bacteria at both 20°C and 5°C under aerobic conditions and 20°C under anaerobic conditions. The utilization of the test materials by the bacteria has been determined by either measurements of oxygen consumption or hydrogen sulfide production. None of the polyethylenes, synthetic fibers, or other thermoplastics such as polytetrafluoroethylene, polycarbonate, or polyamide was utilized by either aerobic or anaerobic microorganisms. All the elastomers tested were utilized by aerobic bacteria, but a majority of them were resistant to attack by anaerobic bacteria. Jute fibers served as a carbon source for both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. In general, the poly(rinyl chloride) materials plasticized with an external plasticizer served as a source of energy for aerobic microorganisms at both temperatures, and six of these were also utilized by anaerobic bacteria. It appears that the added external plasticizer was responsible for the attack, since further tests showed the pure resin and the internally plasticized poly(rinyl chloride) to be resistant to both types of bacteria. Comparison of the data from 20°C and 5°C aerobic tests indicates greater microbial activity at the warmer temperature. Calculated rates of utilization of the susceptible materials showed that the elastomeric compounds were generally consumed ten times as fast when incubated at 20°C as at 5°C. The poly(rinyl chloride) compounds when compared similarly showed approximately a five-to-one ratio, while jute fibers were utilized twice as fast at 20°C than at 5°C."
"Samples of Marlex 50 crystallized from dilute solution (yielding single crystals) and in the bulk form were irradiated by high-energy electrons and the solubilities compared. The single-crystal specimens remained fully soluble after a dose of 20 megarads, which rendered the bulk two-thirds to three-quarters insoluble. Since the initial free-radical concentration was identical and the chemical changes induced were not widely different in the two kinds of specimens, it is suggested that intramolecular crosslinks, occurring in a larger number in the single crystals, are responsible for this behavior. At high doses the same solubility limit is approached by both specimens, which is ascribed to the possibility of chain cutting becoming increasingly ineffective in the single crystal. In the light of these findings, the limitations of the conventional treatment of radiation effects are discussed and the possible significance of the present results for morphological problems is pointed out. A number of further effects are reported in connection with melting behavior and spin resonance spectra that are at variance with results in the literature."
"Samples of Marlex 50 were crystallized from solution in the concentration range of 0.1 to 2 per cent and were irradiated with a dose of 20-megarad electrons. If crystallized at 70°C the materials were largely soluble, but if crystallization was conducted at 85°C the samples became two-thirds insoluble at from 0.4 to 0.6 per cent concentration upwards. Morphological examination of samples crystallized from 1 per cent solution revealed that the mode of crystallization was lamellar in all cases, but in the case of 70°C crystallization the lamellae were largely separated while in the 85°C case they were grown together in a compacted mass. After the latter was broken up by ultrasonic treatment this sample stayed fully soluble after 20-megarad electron irradiation. This finding indicates that the crosslinks are formed predominantly at the lamellar interfaces tying the lamellae together when these are in close contact. This might imply that the radiation is most effective at the sites where the chains fold. The present exploratory work shows the importance of the mode of packing of the lamellae, and indicates that this might be an important factor in distinguishing between the different morphologies observed in general."
"Some aspects of the transmission of Gaussian pulses in a frequency-division multiplex system have been calculated. It is assumed that each channel transmitter includes an amplifier, which may be nonlinear, with input and output filters, and that each channel receiver includes a linear amplifier with a thermal noise source at its input plus input and output filters. The influence that (a) transmitting amplifier compression, (b) maximally flat channel-dropping filters of first or second order, and (c) distribution of filtering in the system have on the signal-to-noise ratio, time crosstalk, and frequency crosstalk is calculated."
"In pulse transmission systems, pulses modulated in various ways to carry information may be transmitted by amplitude, phase or frequency modulation of a carrier, and with each type of modulation various methods of detection are possible. An important consideration in many applications is the performance of various modulation and detection methods in the presence of phase distortion or equivalent envelope delay distortion, which may be appreciable in certain transmission facilities. The principal purpose of this presentation is a theoretical evaluation of transmission impairments resulting from certain representative types of delay distortion. These transmission impairments are reflected in the need for increased signal-to-noise ratio at the detector input to compensate for the effect of delay distortion. The performance in pulse transmission by various carrier modulation and detection methods can be formulated in terms of a basic function common to all, known as the carrier pulse transmission characteristic, which is related by a Fourier integral to the amplitude and phase characteristics of the channel. Numerical values are given here for the carrier pulse transmission characteristic with linear and quadratic delay distortion, together with the maximum transmission impairments caused by these fairly representative forms of delay distortion with various methods of carrier modulation and signal detection. These include amplitude modulation with envelope and with synchronous detection, two-phase and four-phase modulation with synchronous detection and with differential phase detection and binary frequency modulation."
"The detection of a completely known signal which may or may not be present in a finite sample of gaussian noise is considered from two points of view. The first examines the performance of a maximum likelihood detector operating on a finite set of discrete measurements of the stimulus as the set becomes large. The stimulus is either signal plus noise or noise alone. Examples are presented for signals in bandlimited noise, using as measurements either equispaced amplitude samples or derivatives at one instant in time. For both, the detectability groups without bound as the number of measurements is increased. The second point of view bases detection on a continuous measurement (linear integral operator) which maximizes the detectability. Solutions have been obtained when the noise has a rational power spectral density. The detector utilizes a cross-correlation between stimulus and signal which is well known and a mechanism, designated extrapolation detection, which involves evaluation of derivatives of the stimulus. The contribution of the derivative measurements to the detectability is examined as the noise approaches bandlimited noise and is found in many cases to grow without bound."
"G. E. Schindler, Jr., was appointed editor of the Bell By System Technical Journal, effective January 1, 1961. Mr. Schindler studied chemical engineering at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, received the bachlor of science degree from the university of Chicago and received the master of arts degree in English literature and languages from the University of Pittsburgh. After additional graduate work at the University of Chicago, Mr. Schindler joined Bell Telephone Laboratories in 1953. He was editor of the Bell Laboratories Record from 1957 to 1959, and the most recently was the Public Relations department of the A. T. & T. Co."
"A theoretical investigation has been undertaken to study diffraction of electromagnetic waves in Fabry-Perot interferometers when they are used as resonators in optical masers. An electronic digital computer was programmed to compute the electromagnetic field across the mirrors of the interferometer where an initially launched wave is reflected back and forth between the mirrors. It was found that after many reflections a state is reached in which the relative field distribution does not vary from transit to transit and the amplitude of the field decays at an exponential rate. This steady-state field distribution is regarded as a normal mode of the interferometer. Many such normal modes are possible depending upon the initial wave distribution. The lowest-order mode, which has the lowest diffraction loss, has a high intensity at the middle of the mirror and rather low intensities at the edges. Therefore, the diffraction loss is much lower than would be predicted for a uniform plane wave. Curves for field distribution and diffraction loss are given for different mirror geometries and different modes. Since each mode has a characteristic loss and phase shift per transit, a uniform plane wave which can be resolved into many modes cannot, properly speaking, be resonated in an interferometer. In the usual optical interferometers, the resolution is too poor to resolve the individual mode resonances and the uniform plane wave distribution may be maintained approximately. However, in an oscillating maser, the lowest-order mode should dominate if the mirror spacing is correct for resonance. A confocal spherical system has also been investigated and the losses are shown to be orders of magnitude less than for plane mirrors."
"Multimode resonators of high quality factor will very likely play a significant role in the development of devices, such as the maser, which operate in the millimeter through optical wavelength range. It has been suggested that a plane-parallel Fabry-Perot interferometer could act as a suitable resonator. In this paper a resonator consisting of two identical concave spherical reflectors, separated by any distance up to twice their common radius of curvature, is considered. Mode patterns and diffraction losses for the low-loss modes of such a resonator are obtained analytically, using an approximate method which was suggested by W. D. Lewis. The results show that the diffraction losses are generally considerably lower for the curved surfaces than for the plane surfaces. Diffraction losses and mode volume are a minimum when the reflector spacing equals the common radius of curvature of the reflectors. For this case the resonator may be termed confocal. A further property of the concave spherical resonator is that the optical alignment is not extremely critical."
"In this paper an expression is derived for calculating the average conductivity of a diffused layer in semiconductor material as a function of the surface concentration of the diffused impurity and the background impurity concentration. Curves are presented depicting the relationship among these parameters for the case of germanium. Included are curves for both diffused impurity types for the complementary error function, gaussian, exponential and linear impurity distributions."
"Expressions are presented for the magnetization and pull relations of the mating flat magnetic reeds used as contacting members in reed relays. The results of an experimental study expressed in dimensionless form give the force or pull between the reeds in terms of their dimensions, the gap between them, and the flux density. Since the attainable flux density is limited by saturation, the pull expression leads to conditions which must be satisfied by the reed and gap dimensions to provide desired levels of contact and retractile force. The ampere-turn sensitivity of a relay using mating magnetic reeds depends on the flux required and on the reluctance of the magnetic path through the reeds. Expressions are given for the reluctance in the case of an air return path and in that where the air return is partially replaced by a shielding member. Expressions are also given for the operate time of such reed relays. This depends on the concurrent flux development and motion of the reeds. The time of flux development varies inversely with the power input to the coil, but the motion time cannot be less than that required when the flux density is raised abruptly to its maximum value at the start of motion."
"The problem of protecting apparatus against lightning surges from connected transmission facilities has become more complex with the use of solid state devices in apparatus design. Consideration of the protection requirements for such apparatus has indicated that existing information concerning the incidence and characteristics of lightning surges is insufficient to develop optimum protection measures. A recently completed field investigation provides additional information in this specific area. The results of this field investigation and supplemental laboratory surge tests indicate that, in well-shielded underground cable pairs, electrical surges do not exceed approximately 90 volts peak, and that transistorized apparatus capable of withstanding such surge amplitudes needs no further protection. In aerial and buried cable, however, transistorized apparatus requires protection up to the full sparkover potential of 3-mil protector gaps, i.e., to about 600 volts peak. A firm basis for testing and evaluating transistorized apparatus from the lightning surge voltage standpoint is presented."
"A general method is presented for applying error correction to synchronous binary digital systems to improve reliability. It includes the familiar scheme of triplication and “rote taking” as a special case. In principle, the method permits the system to operate continuously, even when a fault is present or maintenance is being performed. An efficient maintenance routine, including rapid repair of faults, is an essential adjunct to the scheme if the potentially large increase in reliability made possible by error correction is to be realized. The percentage redundancy needed to realize the scheme decreases as the complexity of the system to which it is applied increases, but may amount to triplication of equipment even for moderately large systems. The paper describes some error-correcting codes to implement the scheme, discusses error-correcting circuits in a general way, indicates how to estimate the redundancy, and presents a formula for determining the reliability improvement obtainable with a particular maintenance routine. In a companion paper,1 D. K. Ray-Chaudhuri develops a general theory of minimally redundant codes for this application."
"Several authors have considered the possibility of increasing the reliability of large and complex binary digital systems by introducing some redundancy in the system. In a companion paper, Armstrong1 proposes a scheme for applying error correction to a synchronous digital system. In this paper we develop a general mathematical theory for generating minimally redundant error-correcting codes for the scheme in question. This results in what are called “minimally redundant reliable systems.” The problem of constructing minimally redundant reliable systems whose output is free of error when there is a fault in at most one block of the system is completely solved. An example is considered in detail showing how the mathematical theory can be actually applied."
"Helix waveguide, composed of closely wound insulated copper wire covered with an absorptive or reactive jacket, transmits circular electric waves with low loss. Mechanical imperfections, such as curvature and deformation, cause mode conversion and degrade the transmission. Generalized telegraphist's equations describe propagation in an imperfect helix waveguide with coupling between the many propagating waves. The coefficients of coupling depend strongly on the outside jacket. However, the sum of the squares of the coupling coefficients is independent of the jacket for circular electric waves. As a consequence, the average circular electric wave loss in a helix waveguide with random imperfections is also nearly independent of the jacket and the same as in a metallic pipe."
"In a perfect helix waveguide the circular electric wave loss is increased by eddy currents, finite pitch of the helix, radiation through the wire spacing and effects of the wire coating. Only the contributions from eddy currents and pitch are large enough to limit wire size and spacing. Experimental helix waveguides have tilted turns. These tilts cause coupling between circular electric and unwanted modes. From the coupling between modes in curved and in offset helix waveguide, the coupling in a helix waveguide with tilted turns is found. For helix waveguide with slightly irregular winding of arbitrary form, generalized telegraphist's equations are derived. Tilts and other irregularities in the winding increase the circular electric wave loss. The average increase is a function of the covariance of irregularities. Winding tilts with an exponential covariance and an rms value of 0.6° increase the TE01 loss in 2-inch inside diameter waveguide at 55 kmc at the most by 10 per cent of the loss in a perfect copper pipe with smooth walls. Present fabrication procedures insure a smaller wire tilt than this."
"On August 12, 1960, a 100-foot-diameter spherical balloon was placed in orbit around the earth by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The objective was to demonstrate the feasibility of long distance communication by means of reflection of microwaves from a satellite. It was intended that a two-way coast-to-coast voice circuit be established between the Jet Propulsion Laboratories facility at Goldstone, California, and a station provided for this purpose by Bell Telephone Laboratories at Holmdel, New Jersey. Similar tests were also planned with the Naval Research Laboratory and other stations. Construction of the Holmdel station was begun early in 1959. This paper describes the general organization and operation of the station, and discusses the results of the Project Echo experiments that took place between the launching of the balloon March 1, 1961. Successful voice communication wvas achieved a number of times using a variety oj modulation methods, including frequency modulation with feedback, amplitude modulation, single-sideband modulation, and narrow-band phase modulation. Careful measurements were also made of the loss in the transmission path."
"This paper describes system calculations made in preparation for the Project Echo communication experiment and their adaptation to the problem of interpreting the results of the experiment."
"The 10-kw transmitter operating at 960 to 961 mc which was used at the eastern terminus of Project Echo is described. This transmitter is located on Crawford Hill near Holmdel, New Jersey. The 10-kw output feeds into a waveguide line leading to a 60-foot dish antenna. Exciter-driver units are available to drive the power amplifier with various modulations, such as wide-deviation FM, low-index phase modulation, single-sideband or double-sideband modulation with or without carrier, 960.05 or 961.05 mc constant-frequency cw and radar on-off pulses at 961.05 mc. The main output amplifier consists primarily of a four-stage, externally-tuned-cavity, water-cooled klystron operating at a beam voltage of 16 to 18 kv. The transmitter has been operated during many Moonbounce, tropospheric scatter, and Echo I tests with very satisfactory results."
"A tracking horn-reflector antenna, a maser preamplifier (or standby parametric preamplifier), and a special FM demodulator were combined to form a low-noise receiving system which was used to achieve a high-quality voice circuit via the Echo I passive satellite. This paper describes the 2390-MC receiving system located at Holmdel, New Jersey."
"This paper describes the mechanical features of the horn-reflector antenna used for receiving signals reflected from the Project Echo balloon satellite and presents in some detail the electrical characteristics (radiation patterns and gain) measured at a frequency of 2390 mc. Theoretically derived characteristics which agree very well with the measurements are also presented; details of the calculations are given in the appendices."
"Reflected 2390-MC signals from the Echo I satellite were received by a horn-reflector antenna and amplified by solid state traveling-wave masers. This paper describes the design of the dual channel maser amplifiers for this experiment∗ Each maser has sufficient gain (> 33 db) to override the noise of the following stage. Unconditional stability is obtained by the use of distributed ferrimagnetic isolator elements. Their instantaneous bandwidth is 13 mc, centered at 2390 mc. The effective input noise temperature is 8°K."
"The Echo I satellite receiving system at Holmdel, New Jersey, required a 2390-MC standby receiver system to maintain operation during possible failures of the primary maser receiver. This paper describes the details of the two matched parametric amplifiers that were used to provide the standby receiver. The use of this system in the initial Moonbounce experiments and in Project Echo is described. The details of an emergency operation at the beginning of a balloon pass are also presented."
"The FM receiving demodulators used in the Echo experiment are described in this paper. These receivers have negative feedback applied to the local oscillator to reduce the FM modulation index in the receiver intermediate frequency amplifiers. This technique results in a threshold performance which is superior to that of a conventional FM receiver."
"This paper is concerned with the radar employed at Bell Telephone Laboratories, Holmdel, New Jersey, site for tracking the Echo I satellite. The radar was originally designed for the sole purpose of antenna pointing. Recently, however, it has also been employed to measure earth-balloon-earth path loss at regular intervals of time in order to keep track of the condition of the balloon. The performance of the system and some of the data obtained are discussed. There is a general description of the system followed by more detailed descriptions of the various components."
"A 961-MC lower-sideband up-converter has been specially designed to serve as preamplifier for the satellite-tracking radar used in Project Echo.∗ The amplifier and its power supply are separately boxed and are installed directly behind the tracking antenna. The amplifier has been functioning most satisfactorily and has been used in routine manner to track the Echo satellite from horizon to horizon. This paper describes the design considerations, and details the special steps taken to ensure that the amplifier meets the particular system needs of low noise, absolute stability, insensitivity to temperature fluctuations, and high input-power level before onset of gain compression. The satisfactory operation of this amplifier confirms the great potentiality of parametric amplifiers for stable, low-noise, high-frequency receivers.†"
"The Project Echo experiment employed large steerable communication antennas at the ground terminals. These are highly directional transmitting and receiving antennas which must be continuously and accurately pointed at the passing satellite. While the dynamic control of antennas has not been required in prior Bell System communications, it will play an important role in future systems utilizing many orbiting repeaters."
"Motion picture cameras equipped with telephoto lenses were installed on the Project Echo transmitting and receiving antennas located at Holmdel, New Jersey. When the Echo satellite was visible, a camera obtained a photographic record of the pointing accuracy of the antenna. These data were then used to correlate variations of signal strength with deviations in antenna pointing angle."
"A new hands-free telephone, known as the 3A Speakerphone System, is described. It provides, by means of switched-gain techniques, almost complete freedom from distant-end talker echo and singing. The gain-switching action is virtually free of clipping or blocking — objectionable side effects that are often introduced with voice control of gain. The switching threshold is varied automatically in accordance with room noise to avoid blocking in the receive channel. Performance characteristics are shown, with particular emphasis being given to the parameters chosen to meet rather stringent performance objectives."
"A computer program known as BLODI, which accepts for an input a source program written in the BLODI language, is described. The BLODI source language corresponds closely to an engineer's block diagram of a circuit and is easily learned, even by persons not familiar with computing machines. The input code consists essentially of designating the connectivity of a number of boxes drawn from an alphabet of about 30 types. These types include amplifiers, delay lines, counters, etc., which are familiar to designers of electronic circuits. The principles of the compiler are explained and applications are discussed."
"A program for synthesizing music and psychological stimuli on a digital computer is described. The sound is produced by three operations: (a) A compiler generates the programs for a set of instruments. (b) These instruments are “played” by a sequencing program at the command of a sequence of “note” cards which contain information analogous to that given by conventional music notes. (c) The computer output, in the form of numbers on a digital magnetic tape, is converted to audible sound by a digital-to-analog converter, a desampling filter, and a loudspeaker. By virtue of the general nature of the compiling program a great variety of instruments may be produced, and the instrument programs are quite efficient in terms of computer time. The “note” cards are arranged to minimize the effort necessary to specify a composition. Preliminary compositions indicate that exceedingly interesting music and useful psychological stimuli can be generated."
"The variable-capacitance diode is one of the most promising nonlinear elements for low-noise parametric amplifiers. In practice, however, these diodes have a small series resistance, and this limits the minimum obtainable noise figure; for the better diodes, the effect of the shunt conductance can be neglected. Taking the contribution of this series resistance into account, this paper discusses the minimum noise figure of parametric amplifiers under various conditions. It is shown that the minimum noise figures are basically determined by a dynamic quality factor of the diode, which will be defined in this paper, under the assumed model of a series resistance as the only parasitic element. Identical minimum noise figures are obtained for lower sideband amplifiers operated with optimum idler frequency, for those with the idler load at 0°K, and for the upper sideband up-converter. In terms of the over-all systems noise figure, however, the lower sideband amplifier is superior to the upper sideband up-converter, for here the gain is limited by the ratio of output to input frequency. Experimental values are given for the figure of merit of various diodes. Universal curves are also given which demonstrate noise behavior of the various systems as a function of the network parameters and component temperatures."
"A high-resolution electrostatically deflected cathode ray tube is required for the flying spot store of an experimental electronic switching system. This tube is used to obtain random access, by optical means, to 2.5 × 106 bits of information stored on a photographic plate. High degrees of both resolution uniformity and faceplate optical quality are required to achieve large storage capacity and error-free performance. In this paper the design criteria for optimum gun performance and minimum deflection focusing are analytically and empirically evolved. A novel result of this work is a dual shield placed between the two pairs of deflection plates, which substantially reduces beam aberrations due to the deflection fringing fields. A precision tube is described that fulfills the flying spot store design objectives and has performed reliably in a field trial at Morris, Illinois."
"Theorem: An arbitrary symmetric N × N matrix of real rational functions in the complex-frequency variable (a) can be realized as the immittance matrix of an N-port network containing only resistors, capacitors, and N negative-RC impedances, and (b) cannot, in general, be realized as the immittance matrix of an N-port network containing resistors, capacitors, inductors, ideal transformers, and M negative-RC impedances if M < N. The necessary and sufficient conditions for the immittance-matrix realization of transformerless networks of capacitors, self-inductors, resistors, and negative resistors follow as a special case of the theorem. In addition, an earlier result is extended by presenting a procedure for the realization of an arbitrary N × N short-circuit admittance matrix as an unbalanced transformerless active RC network requiring no more than N controlled sources. The passive RC structure has the interesting property that it can always be realized as a (3 N + 1)-terminal network of two-terminal impedances with common reference node and no internal nodes. The active subnetwork can always be realized with N negative-impedance converters."
"For Poisson input to a single server, it is shown that the stationary delay distribution function for last-come first-served service is equal to the distribution function for the busy period (the interval of time during which the server is continuously busy) only for exponential distribution of service time. A similar argument shows that the identity persists for a group of fully accessible servers, each with exponential distribution of service times — a result which has been a curiosity for some time. Finally, the delay distribution for last-come first-served service and a single server with constant service time is derived."
"It is supposed that at a telephone exchange calls are arriving according to a recurrent process. If an incoming call finds exactly j lines busy then it either realizes a connection with probability pj or balks with probability qj (pj + qj = 1). The holding times are mutually independent random variables with common exponential distribution. In this paper the stochastic behavior of the fluctuation of the number of the busy lines is studied."
"A method of performing recursive least squares data smoothing is described in which optimum (or arbitrary) weights can be assigned to the observations. The usual restriction of a constant data interval can be removed without affecting the optimum weighting or recursive features. The method also provides an instantaneous (i.e. real time) estimate of the statistical accuracy in the smoothed coordinates for a set of arbitrary data intervals. Optimum gate sizes for arbitrary predictions can be determined. These features greatly increase the flexibility of recursive least squares data smoothing, and several applications are discussed."
"An insertion loss and phase measuring set has been developed for making small-signal measurements on transistors and general two-port networks with maximum inaccuracy of 0.1 db and 0.5 degree over a frequency range from 5 to 250 mc. In order to realize accuracy substantially independent of test frequency, the measurement information is heterodyned to a fixed intermediate frequency, where detection is performed with the aid of adjustable loss and phase-shift standards. Use of a rapid sampling technique to compare the unknown with a high-frequency standard eliminates errors from circuit drifts and also reduces the magnitude of the “instrument-zero line” to a small value. Besides discussing the over-all operation of the new test set, the paper presents the design approaches used in solving problems related to purity of terminations as seen from the unknown, automatic control of beat oscillator frequency, conversion, signal-to-noise, and design of loss and phase standards. Particular attention is given to the features of the set which especially adapt it to the measurement of transistor parameters."
"A new direct-reading ac bridge circuit has been developed to measure semiconductor bulk and sheet resistivity, using a four-point (or other appropriate) probe. The range of resistivity which can be measured is from 0.001 to 10,000 ohm-cm. Resistivity is read directly from resistance decades and a ratio multiplier, eliminating voltmeter and ammeter errors — the final reading being the result of a bridge-balancing operation for each measurement. Stability and sensitivity provide better than 0.5 per cent electrical accuracy, with mechanical point spacing being the controlling limitation on the over-all accuracy of the measurement. The use of ac eliminates the influence of rectification, thermal, or contact potentials on the measurements, and also provides sensitivity more readily than with dc. The four-point probe and test specimen are the only nongrounded elements. An Appendix compiles four-point probe conversion factors for thin circular and rectangular slices of material. New tables are presented for slices having a continuous diffused skin all over, and thus also conducting across the back."
"The probability of error in the detection of RF pulses embedded in a combination of Gaussian noise, time crosstalk from the tails of two neighboring pulses, and frequency crosstalk from an adjacent channel, is calculated. It is shown that for a given probability of error it is possible to maximize the pulse repetition frequency and simultaneously to minimize the channel spacing and signal-to-thermal noise by operating the system at a signal-to-thermal noise level close to the level of the combined time and frequency crosstalk."
"The time and frequency crosstalk between Gaussian RF pulses sent via adjacent frequency channels over the same transmission medium is calculated. Shapes of the transfer characteristics of the transmitting and receiving filters vary from Gaussian to approximately that of a third-order maximally flat filter. The results permit one to design the transmitting and receiving transfer characteristics of adjacent PCM channels in such a way that the product of pulse spacing and channel spacing is minimized."
"This paper gives a general description of the TH system, which is a long-haul system operating in the 5925–6425 mc band. It discusses the considerations governing the major design decisions, which lead to an FM system of eight channels in each direction, six working and two protection. Each channel has a 10-MC potential baseband width. The paper continues with a discussion of noise considerations, primarily from the viewpoint of telephone transmission. Fluctuation noise and modulation noise are the principal sources, with interference between radio channels a minor factor."
"This article discusses the considerations governing the general over-all physical arrangements of the TH system, which lead to differing treatments for the radio equipment, FM terminals, and protection switching equipment. It describes the general mechanical features of these divisions, from the sliding-rack bay used for the radio equipment to the extensive use of plug-in units for protection switching."
"A general description of the electrical and mechanical features of the TH radio system is given in the two preceding articles.1.2 This paper describes the broadband radio receivers and transmitters in detail. Special attention is given to the new features: the receiver modulator with germanium diodes and its associated preamplifier with a noise figure of 10 db; the IF main amplifier in which nearly all adjustments have been eliminated; the amplifier-limiter with unusually low AM/PM conversion; the high-power transmitter modulator using a varactor diode to avoid conversion loss; and finally the 5-watt traveling-wave tube amplifier."
"The TH microwave carrier supply system furnishes all of the carrier frequencies required at a radio repeater station. All the frequencies are harmonically derived from a common, highly stable, 14.82593-MC crystal oscillator, to avoid interference problems. Total reliance on a common generator of carriers for an entire station calls for a highly reliable and adequately protected carrier supply. To this end, a complete standby supply is arranged with fast automatic switching to replace the regular supply when needed. Special emphasis is placed on conservative circuit design, careful selection of components, adequate monitoring and trouble detection facilities, and provisions for routine maintenance."
"The FM terminals form an important subsystem of TH radio, as the link between the 0.10 mc baseband signal and the 74.1-MC FM signal. Severe requirements arise from the design objective of 16 terminal pairs in tandem in 4000 miles. The FM transmitter design uses a 6-kmc reflex klystron as a frequency modulator, the output of which is heterodyned down to 74 mc by another 6-kmc source. Automatic frequency control, with a 74.13-MC crystal oscillator as reference, provides the required frequency stability. In the FM receiver, an IF amplifier-limiter is followed by a balanced FM discriminator which uses parallel resonant discriminator networks. Improved linearity is obtained by special design of a common interstage network. The video amplifiers are balanced and use high-performance electron tubes. The over-all gain of a terminal pair is 8 db, between 124-ohm balanced video circuits."
"The basic source of power for the TH radio equipment is reliable 230 volts ac obtained from a bank of special motor-alternator sets. These are normally driven by commercial ac power but switch automatically to battery drive on loss of commercial power. This firm ac power is distributed to the individual units of equipment where local rectifiers, of various types and sizes, produce dc power of the required voltage and stability. One of the more advanced of these is the 2900-volt regulated supply for two traveling-wave tubes."
"The operation and maintenance of the TH and TD-2 radio relay systems require communication facilities along the route which can be used for the transmission of voice, protection switching and alarm signals. Special narrow-band microwave facilities, referred to as the auxiliary radio channels, which have been developed as an integral part of the TH system to supply this need, are described in this paper."
"It is the purpose of the automatic protection switching system to ensure continuity of service over the TH system. The protection system prevents any signal loss from occurring in case of fading, and it will restore service a short time after transmission equipment has failed. The over-all reliability of the TH system is thereby very substantially improved. Switching is done in switching sections. These usually contain a number of repeater stations, in which case the switching is normally done at IF. When a channel has to be switched, it is replaced over the full length of the switching section by a protection channel. Protection is also provided for FM terminal transmitters and receivers; in this case the switch is at IF on one side and at baseband on the other. In addition to the IF and baseband switches themselves, the system comprises monitors of various sorts, logic circuitry at each end of the switching section, communication facilities between ends over the auxiliary radio channel, and manual controls. In contrast to the rest of the TH system, which uses mostly electron tubes, the switching system employs solid-state devices entirely."
"To maintain the high performance objectives of the TH radio system under operating conditions requires the regular use of accurate field test equipment. The necessary test instruments are incorporated into mobile test consoles, one for each major subdivision of the TH system. Three of these are described in some detail in this article: 1) the broadband radio transmitter-receiver test set: 2) the FM terminal test set: and 3) the protection switching test set."
"Theoretical questions concerning the possibilities of proving theorems by machines are considered here from the viewpoint that emphasizes the underlying logic. A proof procedure for the predicate calculus is given that contains a few minor peculiar features. A fairly extensive discussion of the decision problem is given, including a partial solution of the (x)(Ey)(z) satisfiability case, an alternative procedure for the (x)(y)(Ez) case, and a rather detailed treatment of Skolem's case. In connection with the (x)(Ey)(z) case, an amusing combinatorial problem is suggested in Section 4.1. Some simple mathematical examples are considered in Section VI. Editor's Note. This is in form the second and concluding part of this paper' Part I having appeared in another journal.1 However, an expansion of the author's original plan for Part II has made it a complete paper in its own right."
"A complete set of bandlimited functions is described which possesses the curious property of being orthogonal over a given finite interval as well as over (− ∞, ∞). Properties of the functions are derived and several applications to the representation of signals are made."
"The theory developed in the preceding paper1 is applied to a number of questions about timelimited and bandlimited signals. In particular, if a finite-energy signal is given, the possible proportions of its energy in a finite time interval and a finite frequency band are found, as well as the signals which do the best job of simultaneous time and frequency concentration."
"The collection efficiency in solar cells is trealed by a new method in which all the effects of the solar spectrum and the absorption curve are contained in a single funetion readily obtained by numerical integration. The method is illustrated by a detailed study of the effects of surface recombination, body recombination and junction depth in silicon cells. The method is also generalized to include built-in electric fields, and calc Illations are given for silicon. Sufficiently strong fields 10 improve the collection efficiency markedly can be produced in some compollnd semiconductors from a gradient in the energy gap. A disclLssion is given of the dependence of the collection efficiency on the absorption curve of the semiconductor. It is shown that silicon has a very favorable absorption curve in camparison with GaAs or InP. Finally, a treatment is given of the minority carrier collection in a two-Junction cell, and calculations arc presented for silicon. It is concluded that this structure may be important for cells with high energy gaps and short lifetimes."
"Erlang's classical model for telephone traffic in a loss system is considered: N trunks, calls arriving in a Poisson process and negative exponential holding times; calls which cannot be served at once are dismissed without retrials. Let N (t) be the number of trunks in use at t. An explicit formula for the covariance R (·) of N (·) in terms of the characteristic values of the transition matrix of the Markov process N (·) is obtained. Also, R (·) is expressed purely in terms of constants and the “recovery” function, i.e. the transition probability Pr {N(t) = N|N(0) = N}; R (·) is accurately approximated by $R(0)e^{r_{1}^t}$ with r1 the largest negative characteristic value, itself well approximated (underestimated) by − E{N (·)}/R(0). Exact and approximate formulas for sampling error in traffic measurement are deduced from these results."
"Resonance of higher-order modes in waveguides can be advantageously used to make band-rejection filters of unusually low loss and simplicity. The region where the resonance takes place can be obtained either by a local change of cross section of the waveguide or by the inclusion of dielectrics. Mode-conversion band-rejection filters can be combined to build channel-dropping filters which are of particular interest in the millimeter wavelength region to separate bands of TE01° into TE10□. In this paper the necessary design relationships for channel-dropping filters using mode-conversion band-rejection filters are derived. It also contains a theoretical derivation of the intrinsic Q of band-rejection filters in round and rectangular waveguides. Finally, the experimental results obtained with different mode-conversion band-rejection filters at 12 and 56 kmc, and with a channel-dropping filter from TE01° to TE10□ at 56 kmc, are given."
"A TE01° hybrid junction that operates similarly to the Riblet short-slot hybrid is described, but because the modes involved are circular-electric, the hybrid can be telescopically mounted, allowing for adjustment to almost any power division. The experimental results show that, centered at 55.6 kmc, the frequency range is larger than 20 per cent. Adjusted for equal power division, the balance is better than 0.5 db and the unwanted reflections in the driven and balanced (isolation) arms are at least 23 db below the input signal. Using the hybrid together with band-reflection, band-transmission or high-pass filters, it is possible to build low-loss channel-dropping filters. In particular, the use of simple cutoff waveguides permits the design of filters with almost rectangular transfer characteristics."
"A constant-resistance filter capable of dividing a very wide band into two subbands is described. It can handle one octave in the millimeter region with only 1.5 db insertion loss for each subband. The splitting transition takes place in a very narrow band (160 mc). Two of its components are important devices: an elbow and a hybrid junction. Both are quasi-optical and work with TE01° mode in 2 inch diameter waveguide."
"An Esaki diode-resistor logic, powered from a three-phase supply and involving OR gates, is analyzed. Practical switching times are of the order of 10|R−|C. The voltages at which the current maximum and the current minimum occur set an upper limit on the achievable logical gain. For a sum of fan-in plus fan-out of 3, the margins on key diode and circuit parameters must be better than ±2 per cent, with all margins assumed equal. The margins can be ±3.5 per cent for a fan-in plus fan-out of 2, which, however, restricts the applications to shift registers, flip-flops, and the like."
"Small uniform deformations of the cross section of helix waveguide perturb the circular electric waves slightly. From these perturbations the added circular electric wave loss is found in a uniformly deformed helix waveguide. For a nonuniformly deformed helix waveguide Maxwell's equations are converted into generalized telegraphist's equations. By an approximate solution for small deformations, mode conversion and circular electric wave loss are found. Random imperfections with small correlation distance cause an average circular electric wave loss that is nearly independent of the wall impedance which the helix jacket presents to the waveguide interior. It is therefore nearly the same as in metallic waveguide. Near 50 kmc, the rms value of elliptical diameter differences should not be more than 0.0015 inch in order that on the average not more than 10 per cent of TE01 loss in a perfect 2-inch inside diameter copper pipe is added to the TE01 loss in a helix waveguide of the same inside diameter."
"Helix waveguide, composed of closely wound insulated copper wire covered with an absorptive or reactive jacket, transmits circular electric waves with low loss. Mechanical imperfections, such as curvature and deformation, cause coupling between the circular electric waves and unwanted modes and degrade the transmission. In designing a helix waveguide for a particular application, a jacket must be found that minimizes the transmission degradation. Unwanted mode characteristics and their coupling coefficients must be known; these quantities are given by the roots of a transcendental equation involving complex Bessel functions. A program has been set up for automatically finding the complex roots by iterative approximation. Starting from the known roots at infinite jacket conductivity, the characteristic equation is solved for all practical values of wall impedance of the jacket and all modes of interest. The representation of the mode characteristics as a function of wall impedance leads to a definite designation of modes in heterogeneous waveguide. The TEpn modes of helix waveguide with n ≠ 1 can have only a limited attenuation. These limits determine the design of mode filters. Manufacturing imperfections increase the average TE01 loss independently of the wall impedance. Random curvature with large correlation distance is produced by laying tolerances, but its contribution to the average loss is minimized in a helix waveguide with very large wall impedance."
"A q-level alphabet is defined as a row vector space over a finite field with q elements. The letters of the alphabet are the rows of the vector space, each consisting of n symbols from the ground field. The weight of a letter is the number of nonzero symbols it contains. The minimum weight of the letters of the alphabet, excluding zero, is denoted by d. A relationship is established between the alphabet and a set of points S in a finite projective space. There is a many-one correspondence between the letters of the alphabet and the hyperplanes of the space. The weight of a letter is simply related to the incidence of the set S with the corresponding hyperplane. Two sets of points in a finite projective space are called equivalent if they are related by a collineation of the space. Two alphabets are called equivalent if there exists between them, as vector spaces, a weight-preserving semi-isomorphism. It is shown that these definitions mean the same thing and reduce to the usual definition when q = 2. An inequality is established between the dimension of the alphabet and the parameters d, q, n. This gives a lower bound for n in terms of the other parameters. It is shown that this bound cannot be achieved by alphabets with repeated columns. A method is given for constructing a class of alphabets which attain this bound. It is shown that for the case q = 2 these are the only alphabets (in the sense of equivalence) for which the bound is attained."
"Experiments are performed that demonstrate some of the functional properties of short-term storage in the visual system, its decay, readout and erasure. Results indicate that the visual process involves a buffer storage which includes an erasure mechanism that is local in character and tends to erase stored information when new information is put in. Storage time appears to be of the order of one-quarter second; storage capacity is more difficult to assess."
"The following basic theorem concerning active RC networks is proved: Theorem: An arbitrary N × N matrix of real rational functions in the complex-frequency variable (a) can be realized as the short-circuit admittance matrix of a transformerless active RC N-port network containing N real-coefficient controlled sources, and (b) cannot, in general, be realized as the short-circuit admittance matrix of an active RC network containing less than N controlled sources."
"The light-transfer characteristics of the vidicon cannot be used directly to predict light-transfer characteristics of a television-film system. The practice of setting the darkest excursions of the video portion of a TV signal to black level, or cutoff of the TV picture tube, changes the effective light-transfer characteristic of the vidicon. Additional gamma correction of the electrical signal is required to reproduce film properly on television. The type of correction necessary for the proper reproduction of film meeting the new proposed specifications for density range and transfer characteristics of television film is described."
"The current methods of obtaining night effects in daylight photography are reviewed critically, and a number of possible improvements are explored. An original given two stops overexposure and printed using a printing master is shown to give a desirable reduction of tone scale, less color saturation, and a more realistic night effect. The required compromise between realism and tone compression is explained. Night scenes photographed using artificial lights and moonlight are discussed briefly."
"When soft, manned landings on the Moon become practicable, efficient visual aids for group briefing and topographic instructional purposes will be needed. It is considered that stereoscopic photographs of the lunar surface which do not require the use of individual viewing devices would prove of value in this connection. The paper accordingly outlines a proposal for the production of such pictures from information transmitted from an orbiting space vehicle."
"High-speed computers are used to solve explosion and shock problems. Each problem is set up as a grid system, each point having the physical characteristics of the corresponding position in the explosion system. Periodically the new positions of all calculated points are simultaneously displayed as dots on an oscilloscope screen, photographed, and later animated, providing rapid visualization of the motion. A motion picture shows such animation including comparison of a corresponding explosion event recorded at one million frames per second by a Beckman & Whitley Model 189 Framing Camera."
"Certain economic advantages result from the use of reversing projection equipment in review-rooms, remotely controlled from the auditorium. The essential features of such equipment are described."
"Two new equipments for producing artificial reverberation are discussed. One is used to increase the effective reverberation time of churches or other auditoriums where the natural reverberation time is below the desired value. The other is intended for audio studio application to introduce special effects. The artificial reverberation is produced in a magnetically recorded multiple-output memory system. In the auditorium application, the reverberation information is fed to a series of side-wall speakers which simulate a series of reflecting surfaces, each set receiving its own distinctive reverberant information. In both auditorium and studio applications, the reverberation time and reverberation frequency response can be controlled over a wide range."
"In Great Britain, lighting control has assumed great importance both as an instrument of dramatic expression and for monitoring picture quality. The lighting supervisor (director) often works the control directly without the intervention of an electrician. The quality of automatic memory derived from the inertia of electromechanical dimmer systems has simplified the design of these controls and in consequence has caused many users in Britain to be reluctant to adopt all-electric forms of dimmer such as the thyratron and silicon controlled rectifier which suggest multipreset networks."
"A sync generator which uses only semiconductors as amplifying or switching devices is described. The standard EIA outputs are formed by a unique method of pulse selection from a single pulse train and the start and duration of each portion of these waveforms has a precise time relation to the originating pulse train. Examples of the circuit design are given and some of the electrical and mechanical features are discussed. The design methods described have been used in a sync generator having the assigned type number R20861A."
"Just as paperbacks have enlarged the field of publishing, 8mm sound film, “another milestone in the communications revolution,” may extend the boundaries of the motion-picture industry. Some major technical and economic obstacles must be overcome before the potential of 8mm for home entertainment, community service, religion, medicine, science, business and industry, government and education can be fully realized."
"Although increased interest and activity have been shown in the use of 8mm sound films, Following the introduction of several projectors, much research and development had been done in the past by those interested in 8mm films. This paper presents a historical resume of the work of the late Lloyd Thompson and some of his early development. Particular attention is given to the sound projection equipment that he introduced and to the film procedures that he utilized to make release prints."
"There are properties of 8mm magnetic film which permit exceptional life as well as initial economy in adaptation. Equipment advantages in comparison to previously existing machines are presented. Results of life test runs are presented as well as results of other tests. Various applications of 8mm equipment are described in detail."
"The development of 8mm sound film suggests important advances for film in education, including increased use resulting from decentralization of film libraries, increased use of film by small groups and individual learners, expanded lists of titles, new uses in research and exploitation of local production possibilities. Many of these advances are critically dependent, however, on the availability of vastly simpler, lighter and cheaper projectors and viewers, and on improvements in 8mm sound cameras."
"Our present pattern of educational use of film involves film rentals, special projection rooms and passed-around projectors. Can 8mm serve as the agent to change this to a pattern in which an adequate library of films and the necessary projection facilities remain in, and are an integral part of, the classroom? If so, what will be the scope of such a shift? What are the requirements before such a shift can take place?"
"New techniques in motion-picture production now require compact camera and sound equipment. A self-contained, battery-operated and transistorized tape recorder is described which provides synchronization with both spring-driven and motor-driven cameras. The 13-lb recorder may be used in conjunction with 35mm, 16mm or 8mm cameras, and the resultant sound may be transferred to sprocketed film for editing and subsequent release, or it may be synchronized with projectors for double-system viewing."
"A low-frequency (30-cycle) sine wave is recorded along with the audio when making the release print. This signal may then be picked up during high-speed (400 ft/min) examination of other physical defects. Thyratron-actuated relays stop the machine in the event of a dropout, splice or reduction in signal output level indicating an alteration in the soundtrack. The operator may then start up again at 24 frame/sec and listen for any objectionable erasure or re-recording."
"Silent 8mm color reduction prints were produced almost 25 years ago. Constant improvements in methods and materials led to many commercial uses. Although a paper on 8mm magnetic sound was first presented to the Society in 1947, little progress was apparent until late 1959. The Geo. W. Colburn Laboratory adapted existing equipment and designed and built new equipment to meet the demand for quality 8mm color sound prints in volume at a cost substantially lower than that of 16mm prints, despite the many additional operations involved."
"Methods used at Technicolor for preparation of 8mm magnetic-sound release prints made from 35mm Eastman Color Negative or 16mm Ektachrome source material are discussed."
"Although the idea of coating a stripe of magnetic material on the edge of motion-picture film was the subject of American patents as early as 1919, it was not commercially feasible for 8mm film until recently. Successful 8mm sound projectors became possible after the development of high-precision, long-wearing magnetic heads and low-cost compact electronic components. Two machines for coating magnetic stripes on film have been produced by Soundcraft, the first for coating 16mm raw stock, and the second for coating 8mm processed film."
"Magnetic sound recording on 8mm film demands close tolerances on both stripe dimensions and magnetic-audio performance because the system requires a narrow stripe and a low film speed. The requirements of good design of a striping machine are reviewed with particular attention to positive film positioning and stripe placement at the striping point, constant speed film drive and minimum film tensions. A coating head and a corresponding high-viscosity magnetic dispersion are described that together define stripe width, thickness and contour. This system has been used by the Eastman Kodak Co. to provide 8mm Sonotrack coatings since May, 1960; the quality control data from this operating experience indicate good production control. Operating techniques are presented for the guidance of processing laboratories who may wish to design similar striping systems."
"Photographic soundtracks for 8mm motion pictures offer a major advantage in cost as compared with magnetic tracks in all applications that require large numbers of release prints. Contrary to the general belief, photographic soundtracks can give at least as good quality as magnetic sound stripes. A demonstration system using a Kodak 8mm Magnetic Sound Projector modified to reproduce photographic tracks is described, and performance data are given."
"Optimum quality 8mm release prints usually are obtained by direct reduction from 16mm negative. Most 8mm reduction printers are the step type, operating at relatively show speeds. This paper describes a continuous 8mm optical printer running at 250 ft/min. Quality advantages of reduction printing are combined with production advantages of continuous printing. Sprockets on a common driveshaft and a U-shaped optical system are used."
"The advent of video tape has provided a means for the rapid intercontinental exchange of television programs wherein the transmission delay need not exceed the travel time of modern jet aircraft. However, the difference in picture scanning parameters employed by various nations often prohibits broadcasting the video signal in its original form and necessitates a conversion to the appropriate transmission standards. Problems related to the design of converters for this purpose are discussed and the equipments used by CBS are described."
"High-intensity light sources have been developed for military applications in optical ranging, communications and navigation. These sources provide a small-area electric spark with a peak brightness of approximately 50 million candles/cm2, and a duration of less than 0.5 μsec. These sparks may be operated at resonant frequencies or triggered accurately by triggering electrodes. Normal frequencies of operation up to several kilocycles are possible under certain conditions. Spectrographic measurements indicate an effective blackbody temperature of the order of 30,000 K. Developmental work has included experiments with spark atmospheres of various compositions and pressures."
"A new technique for the velocity measurement of controlled trajectory particles, projectiles, models or other objects has been developed for laboratory use in the study of ballistic phenomena. One principal advantage of this system is that the velocity of individual objects throughout a wide velocity spectrum can be measured for any given firing of the accelerator. The system employs a standard Fastax streak camera for film transport. Collimated light fields are placed along the trajectory through which the projectile or particle will pass. A narrow vertical slit, near and perpendicular to the trajectory, provides a submicrosecond shutter when image demagnification times rate of film travel equals or approaches the object velocity. A series of mirrors rotates the slit image 90°, enabling the light field to produce a ribbonlike exposure along the entire length of film. A projectile entering the light field creates an instantaneous shadow at the slit and is recorded as such on the film. This is repeated at two or more carefully spaced stations along the trajectory. With the projectile images and time-base markers produced simultaneously, it is necessary only to measure image displacement and determine rate of film travel to calculate object velocity."
"Image dissection techniques have been considered. A small fiber optics image dissection camera has been built. It will take ten pictures in a sequence at rates up to 105/sec using visible light. It is expected that it will be equally suitable for recording sequences of x-ray pictures at similar rates."
"The overall planning of the project to provide a participation experience as an introduction to Colonial Williamsburg was previewed in an illustrated lecture in 1955. The evolution and completion of the system are now presented in two brief papers comprising first a sketch of the history and basis for the film presentation system and then a description of the system and facilities."
"THE PROPOSAL FOR a very special type of motion-picture presentation for Colonial Williamsburg specified a practical and economical system that would be able to project an illusion of reality beyond that of a conventional “movie.” The effect, as nearly as possible, would be that of living re-enactment of events just prior to the American Revolution. Also the presentation to the visitor to Colonial Williamsburg had to be unusual, differing from all of the comparatively new types of film projection being introduced at about the time this program was started. If Cinerama, CinemaScope or even just the most modest wide-screen developments, all comparatively new at the time, could have been exclusively used by Colonial Williamsburg the problem might readily and quickly have been solved. But we had to have something more than any of these systems could achieve and we had to accomplish it without any radical changes in any of the equipment, optics, or film developed to this time. We chose to use available equipments and processes in a new way to take advantage of this unique opportunity. Our goal was to build a theater and to produce a film, using the greater film area per frame available, that would enable the viewer to feel that he was “at the scene” and participating in the events shown on the screen."
"Data on the energy absorption characteristics of color and black-and-white release films are presented. Calculations are made of the relative energy absorbed by these films when projected with a high-intensity carbon arc in conjunction with a silver or dichroic reflector. The results are compared and their significance and implications are discussed. The spectral distribution of the incident energy and its important bearing upon the performance of color films are reviewed."
"In the new CBS-KNXT studio plant, located in Hollywood, a special-purpose digital computer designed by TRW Computers Co. is used to control the sequential switching among the various program components. Automation of the switching functions during the recurrent station-break “panic periods” allows the operator to devote his primary attention to maintenance of quality. The use of a computer has resulted in a highly flexible system with a number of convenient operating features. In addition to a detailed description of the KNXT installation, operational experience gained in this pioneer effort is reviewed."
"The vidicon has not generally replaced the image orthicon for live broadcast work in spite of the fact that its resolution is as good or better, and its effective sensitivity now approaches that of the image orthicon. This is primarily due to the basic difference in the picture characteristics of the vidicon and the image orthicon. — The secondary electron redistribution characteristics of the image orthicon, which are at times criticized as producing an inaccurate picture, can contribute to making the picture appear to be a somewhat better picture than the TV system is normally capable of producing, when the human eye and brain are considered as part of the system. These characteristics also compensate for some of the basic aberrations in a TV electron-optical system. Basic differences in the signal characteristics generated by the image orthicon and the vidicon are described in detail. Methods for obtaining the best performance from each are suggested."
"Ten-step staircase test wedges on 2 by 2-in. slides and 16mm film have been manufactured to predetermined density values. A general account is given of a method of correlating subject reflectance with negative density, preparation of flashed paper strips to serve as a master copy and the problems associated with producing a predicted scale of densities."
"There are several uses of “light pipes” made of fiber optics in the motion-picture laboratory. Illuminating systems for motion-picture printers based on the use of fiber optics have been found to have many advantages. Several other applications of fiber optics in both color and black-and-white printing are noted."
"A system consisting of image-intensifier tubes in cascade has been used to record photographically the very faint images of high-energy particle tracks in scintillating crystals. This system, currently in use on experiments in high-energy particle physics, is sufficiently sensitive to record single photoelectrons from the first cathode of the system, and capable of a time resolution of a few microseconds. A short time storage allows an electronic gate to be controlled by the event of interest, so that of JO6 events/sec occurring, only that one event of particular interest may be recorded. The image-tube system is described together with a summary of relevant properties of available image tubes and lenses. The limitations due to noise and resolution and the improvements to be anticipated from image tubes are discussed."
"New apparatus has been built using image dissection principles and spark illumination. It can take a sequence of twelve shadowgraphs, each of exposure duration less than 1 μsec, and with the intervals between successive pictures anything convenient from a few seconds to 2 μsec. The resolution is 600 lines across the field each way. An alternative system using lenticulated film allows one to take small pictures with a resolution of 25 lines/mm. A number of ways are described of unscrambling the composite records."
"A photoelectronic image tube usable as a high-speed shutter is being developed. The tube is a magnetically focused image intensifier, in which the photoelectron beam is made to pass through two metal meshes mounted a few centimeters from the photocathode. The first mesh acts as a control grid while the second serves as an auxiliary electrode. Its introduction increases the control sensitivity and makes the electron focus less dependent on the control mesh potential. Shutter tubes having an on-off control voltage range of about 3 v and a resolution of 15 to 18 line pairs per millimeter have been made. The loss of electron current due to the meshes is less than 20%. Curves are presented showing the electron penetration under various conditions of cutoff."
"High-sensitivity closed-circuit television equipment can be used as an aid to recording a scene where the effective exposure limitation is below the capability of direct photography. The monitor presentation is photographed by normal techniques. The effective speed of such systems has been increased rapidly during the past three years. Equivalent ASA ratings in excess of 100,000 are now available. — The sensitivity of a well-designed closed-circuit television equipment is determined primarily by the pickup tube and the optics. The most sensitive tube available for the past several years has been the image orthicon or its variations. The sensitivity has been increased to the point that the statistical variation in light photons received is a limitation. The characteristics of these tubes, mode of operation and relative sensitivity are discussed."
"A rotating-mirror streak camera with 0.015 in./μsec writing speed, f/1 aperture and spherical reflection optics (save for a fused-quartz window) has been constructed. The camera, which is equally useful in the ultraviolet and visible light ranges, has a rotating mirror driven by a 1500-rps electric motor. A technique for molding film to the required spherical focal surface has been developed. — The camera is used to study the electrical breakdown development rate and structure of 2-m air gaps by high-voltage discharges, particularly the very high-speed low-luminosity processes which precede the final brilliant arc phase. This last arc phase must be suppressed in order to avoid severe fogging of the record. Techniques are described for superimposing reference points on the image to define time axis, gap axis, spark position in space and writing speed. Photographs show the appearance of the filamentary corona, the growth of the glow discharge at velocities exceeding 108cm/sec and the discontinuous stepped progress of the spark leader."
"During the past five years our Society's interests have been changed beyond prediction by plans to explore and use outer space. The established areas of our industry have continued predicted trends: film and video-tape uses have increased in television broadcasting and closed-circuit television; audio-visual interests have grown and now include 8mm sound film; and our occupation with photographic and electronic systems in research, engineering and documentation has grown. Our role in the Space Age has been to develop weather and communication satellites and systems for lunar and interplanetary space exploration for which we have designed TV and motion-picture systems. These will have an impact on the industry particularly in the education and high-speed photography fields and by way of miniaturization and ruggedization."
"Representatives from the national standardizing bodies of ten countries met at Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, to carry on the work of ISO/TC 36, Cinematography. The work covered a wide range of subjects affecting, in various ways, international business in the field of cinematography. Five current situations outlined illustrate important aspects of the work. Seven Working Groups were authorized to continue work on the uncompleted projects. Continuation of these activities is important to United States industry in this field."
"A simple principle of a simultaneous recording of both streak and framing record of the same event makes possible direct separate frame observation during streak recording of high-speed events. The system permits progressive, full-frame identification from the same observation point of phenomena often difficult to identify with certainty on a streak record alone."
"Motion-picture production requirements for lightweight synchronous location equipment demand battery-operated cameras and magnetic recorders. The speed variations of the location equipment are recorded on a low-frequency control track at the center of the 1/4-in. tape perpendicular to the program modulations. The recordings are reproduced and speed corrected with a playback synchronizer originally designed for a high-frequency carrier system of synchronous recording. The modifications of the synchronizer for this additional use are described and performance data given."
"A systematic study covering six variables shown by preliminary tests to be most important in splicing “Cronar” polyester base by the application of ultrasonic energy showed complex interactions. However, a good operating range was found which yielded useful splices, without scraping of the emulsion, with as little as 0.010-in. overlap and splices as strong as the base itself at an overlap of 0.030 in. The splicer designed and used in these studies could handle 8, 16, 35 and 70mm films and hence permitted tests covering a wide range of conditions of use."
"Many new television camera tubes, both image orthicons and vidicons, have been introduced into the market in 1960 and 1961. The performance of these tubes is discussed in terms of their suitability for different applications and the conditions under which they must operate. In the image-orthicon line, the trend is toward specialization, with new tubes designed to produce better black-and-white pictures and for new camera designs, or to produce color pictures in black-and-white studio-lighting levels; others were designed for very-low-light-level remote pickups where lighting conditions are extremely adverse. The performance of the new vidicons reflects recent improvements in sensitivity; lower gamma characteristics produce better tonal renditions and low-light sensitivity. In addition, several new types have been introduced for special pickup work for both broadcast and industrial TV uses."
"The author's task in preparing a full technical paper for publication and a shortened version for oral presentation is outlined in step-by-step detail. The form is that of an actual technical paper. Although the procedures outlined are those used specifically by the SMPTE, some of the suggestions offered will apply in general to all technical articles intended for publication or oral presentation."
"A method has been developed for the rapid processing of motion-picture film by the application of thin coatings of viscous chemical solutions. The chemical treatments are carried out in an atmosphere saturated with water vapor at an elevated temperature. The physical and photographic quality of black-and-white positive film processed by this method is equal to that obtained from conventional processing. The chemical solutions used for these treatments maintain their properties over extended periods of storage under normal conditions. The usual problems of chemical control are eliminated, thus permitting automatic operation of the processing system."
"A rapid simplified processing machine for 16mm black-and-white positive films employs thin coatings of viscous solutions for the developing and fixing treatments at a temperature of 125 F. The film is processed to a precontrolled density and contrast at an operating speed of 36 ft/min, and a dry-to-dry time of one minute. Packaged chemical solutions are used, metered to the film from a five-hour storage capacity within the machine. The only service connections required are electricity, hot water, and drainage."
"Generation of video waveforms by live and telecine cameras is reviewed, together with the basics of picture and waveform monitoring devices. The degree of industry standardization in North America is reviewed. Monitoring procedures are discussed, and the need for accurate control of video peak-to-peak voltages is justified by considering them relative to transmitter and video-tape recorder modulation, film recording, network transmission and the retention of picture esthetics from source to audience. Accurate interpretation of the oscilloscope display is emphasized, black-and-white references are considered and the relation of these to face tones and glints is discussed. The effect of white clipper operation is considered. Some recommendations are offered."
"Conversion from the rate of 60 television fields per second to 24 film frames per second in television recording is generally accomplished by omitting from the record every fifth consecutive half-field. Consequently, there is a picture splice across the center of every other film frame. In a camera having a properly adjusted mechanical shutter, all points of the picture receive the correct total exposure. However, the exposure intensity and time relationships differ for points inside and outside the splice, and this can lead to a density difference across the splice. This form of shutter-bar has been eliminated in the new experimental recording film described."
"A microdensitometer has been designed and built along modest lines for photographic research. It has a resolving power of about 850 lines/mm when the scanning aperture is 1 micron wide and 40 microns long. The response is linear down to 0.1% transmission for the same aperture. By narrowing the aperture, the resolving power can be increased to 2000 lines/mm. Visual readings can be taken on a self-contained meter or a recording can be made on chart paper with rectangular coordinates."
"Operation of lighting stages or TV studios becomes too complicated for the operator even with present preselection systems. Equipment involving a control console; remote-controlled magnetic amplifiers, or silicon controlled rectifiers; intermediate triple electromagnetic memory; punched-card machine; and repeater normal typewriter is used to reproduce automatically all lighting “states” determined during rehearsals. The operator controls the transfer from one state to the next one by pushbutton action."
"The 1960 Progress Committee would first like to pay its own special tribute to the preceding Chairman, the late Lloyd Thompson, who enlarged and inspired the Committee over the past five years. His untimely passing occurred on December 24, 1960, and he will be greatly missed by his many friends on the Progress Committee, even those who knew him only by his friendly letters."
"When time-motion curves are plotted from high-speed films, the feeding steps of the tracing paper must be exactly proportional to the time interval between frames. Ordinarily the length of each feeding step must be determined by a preliminary measurement of the frame rate. This inconvenience is avoided by the procedure described here, which consists in photographing on each frame of the film a timing instrument with a rotating scale. The film, analyzer is equipped with a duplicate of the timer dial, and the rotation of this duplicate dial is proportional to the movement of the tracing paper. As the film is advanced from one frame to the next, the paper is advanced independently until the dial on the analyzer stands at the same position as the image of the dial on the new frame of the film. The feeding step of the tracing paper is thus automatically proportional to the time interval between the new frame and the preceding one. The ratio of the rotation of the dial to the linear feed of the paper can be varied to give any desired time scale for the resulting time-motion curve."
"During 1960 and the concentrated activity for the Fifth International Congress on High-speed Photography, sponsored by the SMPTE, Congress Chairman Max Beard was able to lay the groundwork for eventually establishing the relationship between supply and demand for education for high-speed photography. A questionnaire was sent to 199 colleges and universities; 124 replied — their answers and supplemental data are being organized by Mr. Beard."
"Two proposals initiated by the Video Tape Recording Committee are published here for a three-month period of trial and comment."
"Many video-tape productions require post-production addition of music and sound effects to the original dialogue. Various methods have been used to accomplish this. Three methods have been successfully at Station KTLA. Method 3, developed at Ryder sound Services, Inc., is designed to achieve maximum control and is used to accomplish intricate mixing, scoring and dubbing operations, A variation of this method, devised for less stringent requirements, is used to avoid editing of sprocketed film. A proposed method, based on the use of a multichannel audio-tape recorder using 2-in, tape, is also discussed."
"A new method has been devised for synchronizing cameras and sound recorders. Equipment which has been designed and developed specifically to meet the requirements of this new system includes sync generators for cameras; echelon synchronizing heads for 1/4-in. tape recorders; and Re-Synchronizers for dual-film projection on 1/6-in. tape. The method is applicable to 35mm, 16mm and 8mm photography. Its adaptability suggests the expansion of its use to the amateur field as well as to industrial and educational fields."
"A new cartridge- type projector for home motion pictures is described This projector makes possible the showing of a full-length feature film in a condensed form without the need of threading The specific method of obtaining a film to be enclosed in a cartridge is described and based on this system applications for the educational field are outlined."
"The problem of how to design a camera tube to operate at light flux levels lower than those presently used without reduction of the signal-to-noise ratio is examined. It is shown that any increase in photocathode sensitivity or mesh transmission allows a corresponding reduction in the light required for equal performance. On the other hand, increases in the secondary-emission ratio of the target or the first dynode, even if indefinitely large, can only produce a limited reduction in the light required for equal performance."
"The recently developed temperature-and-field emitter is useful in applications requiring both high resolution and high speed. The cathode has been applied to a family of new x-ray tubes operating at currents and voltages up to 2000 amp and 600 kv, respectively. Earlier tubes, operating at a pulse length of 0.2 µsec, provide radiographs with good resolution through as much as eight inches of aluminum in a single pulse. — The extension of these techniques to a pulse length of 50 mµsec is described. Resolution and film density are sufficient for a number of hypervelocity mechanisms. The performance of the tube and x-ray system is described."
"In high-speed and ultra-high-speed photography, comeras utilizing single-stage electronic image-converter tubes have proved to be very useful. These electronic cameras however, have the disadvantage of small light gain, so that a high brightness of the primary image is required. The use of a multistage image-intensifier tube, such as the Astracon, overcomes this difficulty. — A high-speed camera of “ultimate light gain,” employing two Astracon tubes, has been built. With this camera, it is possible to record single photoelectron events on photographic film. The performance of this camera is discussed as a specific application of the Astracon tube, in high-speed photography at extremely low light levels."
"A double-drum, high-speed framing camera capable of photographing fast-moving mechanical and electrical machinery for quantitative analysis produces 1304 pictures, each 5 by 8 mm on a 1850-mm length of unperforated 35mm film. The camera can record at 8000 to 42,000 frames/sec, with an aperture ratio of f/7, and resolves 80 lines/mm. Synchronization of image motion with the moving film is accomplished by rotating an inner drum carrying secondary objective lenses at the speed necessary to cause the image to move at the same velocity as the film on the outer drum."
"Time-lapse photography has many applications including medical research, law, industry and agriculture. A discussion of medical research describes studies of normal and malignant cells of tissue and blood; human capillaries and studies on human eyes with an automatic “eye movement” camera. Time-lapse photography has also played an important part in a patent litigation. Microscopic studies at low and high temperatures (freezing of motor oil, and baking) are discussed. This technique is also used in the study of plant growth."
"The influence of unusual environmental conditions on the performance of commercially available vidicons is reported. It is found that increasing the faceplate temperature to 90 C does not affect the resolution, increases the dark current and decreases the sensitivity when the dark current is held constant. Data are presented for the durations of application of greater than normal cathode radiation at which image burn is produced, It is found that the envelopes of most commercial types of vidicons do not fail at pressures below 50 atmospheres. The only observed effect of nuclear radiation was the reduction of sensitivity caused by browning of the glass faceplate."
"Auxiliary equipment has been designed and built in an experimental form which will automatically control the light shutter of a Bell & Howell printer. By means of silicon solar cells, a contact-making voltmeter and a 22-step selsyn transmitter device the aperture control of the printer is varied in accordance with the opacity of the negative being printed."
"Three different types of image-converter cameras have been designed over the past several years with various characteristics but all emphasizing fast exposure rates. The three cameras all use the Mullard converter tube type 1201 with the short-persistence blue phosphor for photographic recording. The first camera produces a sequence of six rectangular images having an aspect ratio of about 5:1. The exposure time of 0.4 μsec was used and a fixed exposure interval of 5 μsec. This camera takes one group of six exposures at a time with a relatively long recovery time. — The second camera has considerably advanced characteristics. This camera makes six exposures on a single frame at rates varying from 2 × 106 to 2 × 104 exposures/sec. The frame rate extends from zero to 5000, the upper limit depending on exposure rates. Exposure durations have these values: 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0 and 10.0 μsec. Repetition-rate and exposure-time duty cycle may not exceed 20%. Deflection of the image takes place on both axes, producing two rows of three exposures. — The third and latest camera design is similar to the second, having exposures of 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0 and 10 μsec and corresponding exposure rates of 2 × 106to 2 × 104exposures/sec. The sequence of pulse and shutter pulse generator is very similar; however, the sweep is wholly on one axis and therefore similar to that of the first camera described. The mechanism of sweep generation is quite different, however, the basic sweep form being generated by a diode-pump counting circuit. Displays of 4 or 8 images may be selected."
"This electrostatic deflection image-converter system has speeds up to 5 × 106frames/sec, and exposures as brief as 5 × 10-8 sec. The number of frames in a subseries can be 4 or 8. The total number of frames in a series is 16. The exposure time for each frame can be varied during the series. The maximum exposure variation from 1st to 16th frame is a factor of 20. Frame size is 5 mm × 5 mm. Resolution is 30 lines/mm. The equipment can also take a series of four streak records at controllable intervals. A discussion is given of the effective aperture ratio of the converter plus input and output lenses, for various electrical and optical magnifications."
"This paper describes three new framing cameras, each of which combines a high-speed rotating four-face mirror with a low-speed rotating film drum. Typical features of one camera are: continuous writing system, 120,000 frames/sec, 200 exposures per run, 1 μsec minimum exposure time, rotating mirror motor-driven at 90,000 rpm, rotating film drum of 60-cm diameter motor-driven at 900 rpm, effective aperture f/9, frame size 5 mm × 20 mm. A second similar camera can operate at twice as many frames/sec. Exposure time can be maintained at the minimum value, and 200 exposures per run can be taken at low framing rates. A third camera is being made to take 2000 frames at 106frames/sec."
"This transparence method makes it possible to obtain photographic records of explosive phenomena which have a considerable destructive effect and a very intense self-luminosity. It consists mainly in replacing the sparks of the Cranz-Schardin method with explosive flashlamps that are located in air rather than in argon. The intensity of the luminous flux supplied by these lamps has made it Possible to arrange recording conditions to eliminate completely the parasitic soft luminosity of the object. The synchronization of the various explosive lamps is assured by the use of a detonating cord. The framing rate can attain 1,000,000 frames/sec with an exposure time of the order of 10-1 μsec per image."
"The SMPTE Video-Tape Recording Committee has developed a Recommended Practice for transverse track video-tape recording which results in a constant recorded video-track length per TV line period. Adherence to this Recommended Practice will improve the interchangeability and interspliceability of recorded tapes. The Recommended Practice establishes the proper position of the vacuum guide with respect to the axis of rotation of the video heads as a function of the vacuum guide radius. The background for this Recommended Practice is outlined and the relationships that are specified in it are explained."
"During the recording process in a magnetic TV-recording system, the time relationships of the various parts of the signal waveform are transferred to the recording medium in elements of space. This operation, and the inverse, which occurs on reproduction, may cause undesirable time-displacement errors in the reproduced picture. The factors influencing these errors are outlined and discussed. Methods of reducing the errors and of increasing the time stability of the output signals by electromechanical and electronic means are described."
"The equipment is intended for the transmission of short lengths of 16mm news film over a program channel in very long cables or radio link systems. The time of transmission is 100 times the normal running time of the film. The corresponding reduction in bandwidth together with other economies in frequency enable the signal to be restricted to a video bandwidth of 4.5 kc which occupies a band between 0.5 and 5.5 kc for transmission over the circuit. The equipment has been successfully used over the transatlantic cable."
"A simple modification to the gate shoe of a 16mm Bell & Howell Model J Printer is described. A rayon velvet pad is positioned over the printing aperture in such a way that more intimate film to film contact is produced. This also reduces spurious film movements at the aperture."
"The constant-time, variable-intensity sensitometer was designed for investigating the response of photographic film in the microsecond exposure region. The fastest time available is 1.5 /μsec with 2 w/sec of energy per flash. Exposure times of 15 and 150 μsec at identical energy level per flash are also available."
"The problem treated in this paper does not refer to the process of timing color negatives, but to the necessity of maintaining uniform color quality from print to print. A definite color balance for a given set of printing conditions must be established. This balance will often depend on unknown quantities such as shifts in relative color sensitivity of print materials from one emulsion number to another. General stability conditions of an additive printing process are mentioned. A system of controlled chance is defined. Essentials of the system proposed are enumerated and described. Some mathematical reasons for the selection of an adequate number and sequence of possible printer-light trial combinations are discussed. Economic considerations are discussed briefly."
"The extraordinary brilliance of a focused maser beam makes it an ideal source for short exposure high-magnification micrography, and for shadowgraph and schlieren work. In addition, the monochromatism of the beam makes the maser light source exceptionally useful in interferometry. Pictures have been taken to demonstrate some of the capabilities of maser light sources."
"At the Fourth International Congress on High-Speed Photography five separate papers were presented describing various aspects of the high-speed photographic work carried out at the British Atomic Weapons Research Establishment. The present paper describes three applications of the Type C5 camera at speeds up to 8 × 106frames/sec on such events as Ø-mode discharges and externally illuminated effects of explosions."
"The concept of informational sensitivity is derived intuitively as the gradient g = dD/dE divided by the product of Selwyn granularity $\\mathcal{G}$ and the square root of the area s of the spread function. When the diameter of the camera lens and the size of the final picture are held constant, the relative focal length of the camera lens for equal detail rendition varies directly with the product $\\mathcal{G}\\sqrt{s}$. The required exposure time then varies inversely with informational sensitivity $g/\\mathcal{G}\\sqrt{s}$. For a stationary camera, detail rendition improves as the focal length of the camera lens increases. But the exposure time also increases, and when the camera moves relatively to the scene, detail rendition is thus diminished from this cause and is optimum for a certain focal length. Examples are given to confirm these conclusions."
"Certain events which can be studied photographically have associated with them a high degree of self-luminosity. To study the surface phenomena of these events, a high resolution, 50-mμsec Kerr cell camera and synchronized light source have been developed. A three-polarizer Kerr cell, having an optical transmission ratio of better than 106:1, is employed to prevent undesired exposure of the film due to the relatively long duration light from the self-luminosity which would bleed through a standard two-polarizer cell when closed. The cell is activated by means of a transmission line pulse generator capable of producing a 60,000-v square-wave pulse. — The light source consists of three commercial xenon filled flash-tubes which are energized by means of a hydrogen thyratron pulser. A transmission line network is incorporated into the flashtube pulser to produce a high-voltage synchronizing pulse when the flashtubes are ignited. This pulse is applied, via a length of delay cable, to the trigger electrode, of the spark-gap switch which activates the Kerr cell shutter. Synchronization is accomplished with an accuracy of 5 μsec. The camera has been used to photograph the early stages of electrically exploded metal foils, and hypervelocity impacts in a ballistics range."
"Recent work on an electron microscope image intensifier has established that thin films of amorphous selenium can give charge multiplication in the region of 2000 when bombarded with high energy electrons. A sealed-off tube achieving prescanning amplification in a similar selenium film is described. — In the “writing” function, electrons from a semitransparent photoemissive cathode are focused and accelerated into a 10-μ self-supporting selenium film. The provision of an electron transparent signal plate on the front surface of the film enables charges to be driven to the rear whence they are removed by a low-voltage scanning beam which returns the surface to reading gun cathode potential. Electrostatic scanning is used in combination with retarding field electrodes to achieve orthogonality. — Overall sensitivity is dependent on both photo-cathode efficiency and charge multiplication in the selenium—which is itself a function of the writing electron voltage. It can be shown theoretically that the use of a suitably restricted bandwidth and optimized amplifier conditions should enable single photoelectrons to be detected. Tests on experimental tubes have shown that prescanning gains of 500 should be practicable. In this case the tube should be capable of detecting 40 incident photons per cathode image point per frame."
"Today's needs in TV film recording are related to the cathode-ray-tube parameters of phosphors, screen, aluminizing, spot size, and operating characteristics. The spectral emission and decay characteristics of phosphors pertinent to photography are described; the effects of the physical characteristics of the phosphor and screen are evaluated in relation to problems of uniformity and impurities. Methods of exposure and the response characteristics of commercially available film are evaluated. The relation of phosphor screen characteristics to film in the optical system is shown."
"The Video Tape Analyzer is used in the production of video tape and conveniently measures these tape parameters: (1) number and characteristics of dropouts; (2) comparative frequency response; (3) comparative noise figure; (4) comparative sensitivity and output level; and (5) ability of tape to resist mechanical abrasion. Since the VTA neither records nor stores picture information, analysis is accomplished during one run-through of the tape; therefore tape handling is reduced, analysis time is decreased, and no synchronizing circuitry is necessary. The VTA's operation is described."
"The characteristics of the rear-projection screen are examined in detail. Numerical constants are provided that define these characteristics for practical screens and convert foot-candles to footlamberts. A procedure is given by which an optimum screen may be specified for a specific application. Human factors are discussed and numerical values provided for viewing brightness and contrast for various types of projected material."
"Location recording (defined as a recording made with a completely self-contained recording channel that can be moved from one location to the next) is a subject of particular interest to the independent producer. Methods of recording devised to make the best use of presently available magnetic recording channels are discussed. Suggestions are made as to how best to produce material of a consistently high quality for final re-record or transfer."
"Quite recently, oil wells have been drilled on studio properties, creating new noise and vibration problems. Solutions to these problems include the suitable location of each drilling site relative to studio activities; acoustical insulation of drilling derricks and associated machinery, and the mounting of machinery on vibration isolation mountings. These, as well as other noise and vibration problems involving freeways, airplanes and electric power stations, are described in this paper."
"The xenon-arc discharge is very susceptible to a magnetic field and the arc can be defected to extinction. In this way a lamp can fulfill a dual purpose, by emitting light radiation while functioning as its own circuit breaker. Investigations have centered around a 2-kw design of a compact-source xenon lamp with increasing gas pressures and with lamp currents of up to 1000 amp. By the use of a magnetic field to extinguish the arc and thereby break the lamp current, substantially square-wave pulses of light are obtained in the region of 10 to 100 msec. With these high lamp currents the lead-acid battery provides a satisfactory source of power and with light flashes of up to 50 kw the arc characteristics and the light efficiency output have been studied. Comparisons are also made with earlier discharge lamp designs which are of particular interest for high-speed photography. — Magnetic arc switching is already being used successfully as a means of providing an occulting light in the Dungeness Lighthouse. Higher flash powers are switched with shorter durations enabling higher-speed camera operation and entering afield where rotating mirror cameras demand still higher light intensities."
"Various techniques have been developed which greatly increase the usefulness of the sweeping-image smear camera in detonation and shock-dynamics research. When self-luminosity is insufficient, several methods are used to enhance the light, e.g. Scotch Tape on explosive, surfaces, air or argon gaps, etc. When required, external light is supplied by exploding wires, explosive flashlamps, etc. The sharp change in the intensity of light reflected from, the surface of highly reflecting, opaque materials is used to record the arrival of shocks at the surface. When the reflectivity of the test surface is low, a covering of thin aluminized-plastic film is used, clearly signaling shock-arrival times. Very weak disturbances are observed by schlieren techniques, using either transmitted or reflected light. Multiple slits, or grid systems of various configurations can be used to increase the quantity of recorded information. “Light pipes” of optically clear filaments can be used to transmit light signals from points inaccessible to direct observation, to positions of alignment within a single slit, or to other convenient configurations. Other techniques are described, such as velocity-synchronization, shadowgraphing, time-dependent spectroscopy, and the use of color film."
"The advantages of a streak camera having continuous receptivity and employing only one rotating element are discussed. The essential element of such a camera is a prism-mirror combination which is rotated at high speed. Various arrangements of this combination are possible, and have been investigated with a view to compensating for the aberrational and “splitting” effects. The theory of image formation through the combination is reviewed and alternative schemes are discussed."
"The sources of uncertainty in the interpretation of photographic records obtained by many of the techniques employed in high-speed photographic instrumentation are examined. The need for a good physical understanding of the events being studied is shown to be an essential requirement in the analysis of the photographically recorded luminous output to that event. — Difficulties which arise in the analysis of rotating-mirror streak-camera records are described and the simultaneous use of associated equipment to overcome these difficulties is recommended. The need for “mental conditioning” to avoid the pitfalls of misinterpreted high-speed photographic recordings is demonstrated. The nature of the cameras, the recorded light and the physical characteristics of the events being studied must be carefully analyzed to avoid typical misinterpretations, several of which are illustrated in this paper."
"When a flashlamp is required to flash at high rates, the charging circuit is required to supply more current. Eventually, a condition arises where the flashlamp does not deionize but goes into a continuous arc that is called “holdover.” Conditions for the limiting frequency in terms of circuit and lamp volt-ampere characteristics are given. Experimental data on several flashlamps are presented. Circuits which force a flashlamp to operate at high frequency even if it does not deionize are discussed."
"The operation of three-electrode, hard-vacuum, flash x-ray tubes is discussed, with particular reference to the use of these lubes in the so-called low-voltage circuit. It is noted that these tubes can give out pulses of x-rays which are very short compared with the “ringing time” of the associated electrical circuit. — A theory is put forward to explain this and other tube characteristics. The theory postulates the production of a plasma jet, which is “pumped” from the trigger arc towards the anode by means of the electromagnetic pinch effect. The x-ray exposure time corresponds to the transit time of this jet. The theory also requires that there should be an initial delay after the breakdown of the trigger before there is any appreciable rise of current in the tube. Some evidence of this is given together with some x-ray shadowgraphs illustrating applications of the flash technique."
"In a continuation of experiments reported at the last High-Speed Congress (1958) the authors study the conditions that determine the maximum frequency of periodic discharges through a flash x-ray tube. With the earlier device, using direct triggering of the tube and simple R-C or R-L-C recharging, the limit frequency is about 5000/sec. To get a higher rate, it is necessary to isolate the anode from the discharge condenser during the pauses. — In the new circuit this controlled separation is attained by a quenched spark gap, which is periodically triggered by an electronic pulse generator. The device allows a precise control of frequency and total frame number. A capacitive voltage divider assures the synchronized pulses to the tube trigger electrode. With an apparatus following this principle, periodic x-ray flashes up to 12,000/sec and a total number of 60 were produced. Image separation is accomplished by means of a drum camera running at 80 m/sec. As applications, the authors show a frame series of the initiation of a squib and of the liquid metal transition in arc welding."
"For certain applications of flash radiography, particularly diffraction studies, the x-ray intensity of a single flash is not sufficient for direct photographic registration. A further increase of flash specific intensity is not to be expected because of the limited current density at the anode and the required short flash duration, so an improvement of sensitivity of registration might be expected to open new fields of application to flash radiography. One possibility of realizing this is given by the electronic x-ray image intensifier. The authors study the possibilities of application of such a device in flash technique. — A slight loss in definition must be accepted, but this is nearly the same as in the stationary case. The image blur due to development of space charge in the electron optics by high impulse loads is negligible for dose rates up to 105 roentgen/sec. Using an objective of extremely high aperture and highly sensitive film, the gain in sensitivity is about a factor of 50, compared with direct registration using a highly sensitive film. The method will be of interest not only for single-flash photography but also for cinematography with x-ray flashes."
"An unorthodox circuit technique is described, in which a standard pentode amplifier is operated “below the knee” of the plate characteristic to obtain a reversal of transfer characteristic slope. Projecting selected amplitude increments of a video signal over this reversing characteristic and deleting remaining video portions not in the immediate vicinity of the reversal, results in a signal having “off” response to levels on both sides of the input incremental level and a suprisingly well defined “on” response to the included level. The contour or “outline” signal thus derived may be added to the input signal to form a composite display in which the level of the contour may be continuously varied for observation or analysis."
"For evaluating TV Systems and for studying image enhancement techniques, there is a need for simulator equipment with adjustable and measurable parameters. Because results must be duplicated from day to day and from month to month, reliability is of importance in designing the equipment. Also, when evaluating systems of high resolution, the resolution capabilities of the evaluating means must be better than the system under evaluation. The mechanical and electrical design must be flexible so that, when new ideas present themselves, they may be developed and added to the existing equipment. A TV Imagery Simulator which fulfills these requirements has been built by the Astro-Electronic Products Division of RCA and has been in use for over two years."
"The design of the interior surface of a studio or review room for acoustical control is partly a matter of science and partly the exercise of an art. A specified reverberation characteristic can be obtained with fair accuracy, but other problems are solved mainly by judgment. Several examples will be discussed where it was attempted to maintain as high a ratio of engineering to rule-of-thumb as possible."
"Variations in Ektacolor process control strips indicate that a method of producing reliable strips is needed. Present process controls are examined to determine the requisites of such a method. It is found that the prime requisite is a short stabilization period. This means forced aging. Heat is selected as the aging agent. Experiments are performed to find the proper temperature and exposure time. Further experiments are made to obtain images in a near-normal balance range. Reliability of results is discussed."
"The first application of a digital computer to television automatic switching control has been developed under CBS auspices and went into operation on December 31, 1960. The resulting system offers a considerable advance over previously-used techniques with respect to functional capacity, ease of revision of program schedule, and adaptability to changes in operating practice. In meeting these stringent requirements, the computer approach proves to be economically sound, offering features unattainable by other means except at prohibitive cost. The present paper describes the theoretical considerations relevant to this application."
"An automatic television program system has been designed wherein events are stored in beam switching tube memory elements, along with the time each event is to remain on the air. As each event goes on the air, its time begins to count down 10–9–8–7, etc., to zero. When it reaches zero the next event is automatically switched on the air and its allotted time starts counting down. In case the operator desires to cut short an event which is on the air before its allotted time expires he may do so and immediately place the next upcoming event on the air by pushing a “take” button on his control panel. Similarly if he desires to extend the allotted time of an event on the air he may push a “hold” button which will stop the countdown, allowing the on-air event to continue until he is ready to put the next event on the air, which he does by pushing the “take” button. This provides split second automatic timing with straightforward manual override."
"The Unit produces and distributes 16mm feature-length dramatic motion pictures on religious and educational themes, travelogues, documentaries, and promotional short subjects. Comprehensive courses leading to Bachelor and Master degrees in Cinema are offered. The studio and equipment facilities are on a scale perhaps unique among institutions of higher education. Unusual Films provides the “laboratory” for practical experience in all phases of motion pictures for students in the Division of Cinema of the Bob Jones University School of Fine Arts."
"After five years of research and planning, the new motion-picture studio for the Department of Motion Picture Production of the Brigham Young University began operation in the Fall of 1958. With the aim to produce pictures of highest quality at reasonable cost, for the University and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Morman) the studio was designed to carry an idea through from script to screen. The basic unit of this new facility is an 80 by 100-ft soundstage. Adequate space is provided for all activities relating to motion-picture production such as animation, art department, set construction, set storage, sound recording and dubbing. Included are separate offices for writers and production personnel. Modern equipment was selected for suitability and to meet the highest standards of perfection."
"Studies were made of flashtubes with a limited discharge column (capillary tubes); and with an unlimited discharge (lamps with spherical bulbs), in a minimum inductance circuit. The investigations included extreme cases of the construction and supply parameters. Discharge characteristics in capillaries are similar to those in wide-diameter tubes, though corresponding values of specific resistance occur at electric fields some 5 to 10 times higher. — The specific resistance of plasma becomes almost constant (equalling ∼ 0.02 ohm cm) at E ≳ 120 v/cm. The discharge extinction voltage is approximately inversely proportional to the inner diameter of the tube. The increase of the light efficiency stops at E ≅ 400 v/cm (reaching very high values of about 40 lm/w). The dependence of the flash duration r on construction data and on supply parameters was determined, over a wide range of conditions. Within narrow limits of parameter modifications the following expression may be used: τ = AU0-0.6 (C1)pd-q — Here A is the proportionality coefficient; U0, the initial voltage on the supply condenser; C, the condenser capacity; I and d, the length and the inner diameter of the tube; p and q, approximately constant exponents, which change respectively from 0.5 to 1 and from 0.5 to 2, for wide variation of the parameters. The influence of the inherent discharge circuit inductance on the luminous characteristics of tubular lamps is almost insignificant. The working temperatures of quartz and glass tubular lamps, which are on long-duration stroboscopic duty (750C and 250C respectively) are attained at mean powers of about 10 and 1.8 w/cm of tube length, respectively. The tubes perform for a few seconds (without forced cooling) at powers of 40 and 4 w/cm, respectively. — The load factor, (CU4)max, which determines load limits in single-flash operation conditions, does not depend on the diameter, d, for glass tubes in the range from 0.5 to 11 mm, and for quartz tubes in the range from 0.5 to 2 mm. The time necessary for the deionization of the gas gap in capillary quartz tubes, dissipating ∼ 2 w/cm increases from 80 to 270 μsec for an increase of the initial electric field from 140 to 280 v/cm. At higher power the deionization period drops from 500 to 300 μsec. Accordingly, the critical flash frequencies of such tubes (without any additional commutation element in the discharge circuit) are equal to 12 kc/sec at low wattages, and of about 3 kc/sec at higher wattages. — To investigate extreme discharge performances in lubes with spherical bulbs, various low-inductance condensers and tube designs were tried. These included disc-shaped, pot, and cylindrical ceramic condensers; cylindrical and spherical quartz condensers; cylindrical film condensers; disc-shaped and coaxial lead-ins, connections and electrodes. As a result data were obtained for discharge circuits of the minimum possible inductance. Investigations were made of discharge column expansion velocities, and of discharge characteristics for various supply parameters. Construction data and supply parameters for tubes with a flash duration of 0.1 μsec, a flash frequency of 3 kc/sec, and a power of 1 kw were established."
"Design details are given for two submicrosecond flash sources for photography by reflected light, silhouette and schlieren techniques. The source for reflected-light photography uses a “guided” air spark operated at 18 kv with 0.05 μf to produce a 0.4-μsec flash with a peak light of 5 million candlepower. The flashtube, a special design, is described, together with its power supply and trigger circuit. The trigger circuit can be operated by a microphone, phototube, contactor or other electrical signal, and incorporates an adjustable time delay. A photograph taken with the unit is shown. — A small spark source capable of producing flashes of about 10 mμsec duration for silhouette and schlieren photography is described. Relative peak light output and flash duration are given as a function of pressure for air, nitrogen, oxygen, carbon dioxide, hydrogen and argon. Gap resistance is given as a function of gap length, for air."
"The previously described f/10 sweeping-image camera has been equipped with a series of refined accessories to adapt it for a wide variety of explosive research problems. In order that the camera may be used with an assortment of objective lenses, it has been equipped with the following adjustable accessories: camera and lens mounts, demountable lenses, remote-control focusing, slit holder mount, field lens mount and viewfinder. Attachments which help in obtaining the correct relative adjustment between the object and the final image are an illuminated-slit projector, a precision mount for the astigmatism correcting lens, and a sweeping-image viewer. To safeguard personnel in the event of a mirror explosion during camera operation, an armor plating has been installed. This work was done under the auspices of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission."
"When television recording on 2-in. magnetic tape was widely adopted by broadcasting organisations on both sides of the Atlantic, it was realised that this constituted a major contribution towards a method of programme exchange. However, the fact that tape recording involves the storage of the video-signal wave-form rather than the corresponding picture (as in film recording) poses a further problem. Because of the differences in television standards, some method of converting the signal from one set of standards to the other becomes necessary. — A satisfactory solution to this problem has been used in Europe for several years, where three sets of scanning standards (819, 625 and 405 lines) are in use. However, the common feature of a 50 cycles per second (cps) field frequency has led to a comparatively simple conversion system, and articles have been published1-3describing the conversion problem and equipment suitable for use in such circumstances. — Further investigations have now led to the development of a converter suitable for use between standards having 50-cps and 60-cps field frequencies."
"Radio Transmitters: Definitions of Terms"
"The following topics are dealt with: camera tube; chrominance channel bandwidth; chrominance signal component; color sync signal; deflection yoke; dc restoration; dc transmission ; flyback; geometric distortion; horizontal hold control ; linearity control; luminance channel bandwidth; monochrome channel bandwidth; nominal line pitch; picture tube; resolution wedge;vertical hold control; staircase signal; limiting resolution and gray scale."
"FM and television broadcast receivers are frequently potential sources of interference to other FM and television broadcast receivers as well as to receivers in other services. In the range of 300 kc to 25 Mc, this interference can arise from high-level receiver signals such as the IF and, in television receivers, the horizontal deflection system. This standard defines a method for obtaining a measure of the interference conducted by the power line from these various interference sources in the frequency range of 300 kc to 25 Mc. It supersedes and replaces the following three standards: \"IRE Standards on Receivers: Methods of Measurement of Interference Output of Television Receivers in the Range of 300 to 10,000 kc, 1954\" (54 IRE 17.51), \"IRE Standards on Methods of Measurement of the Conducted Interference Output of Broadcast and Television Receivers in the the range of 300 kc to 25 Mc, 1956\" (56 IRE 27.S1), and 'Supplement to IRE Standards on Receivers: Methods-of Measurement of Interference Output of Television Receivers in the Range of 300 to 10,000 kc, 1954 (54 IRE 17. S1)\" (58 IRE 27. S1). This standard describes standard input signals, the equipment set-up and measurement techniques."
"Construction Drawings of Line Impedance Network Required for Measurement of Conducted Interference to the Power Line from FM and Television Broadcast Receivers in the Range of 300 kHz to 25 MHz as Specified in IEEE Std 213-1961."
"Standard methods for the measurement of electromagnetic field strength in radiowave propagation are described in detail. These are for frequencies below 1000 MHz, and include the standard-antenna method and the standard-field method."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"The general format of the Digest has not been changed this year and, in keeping with the policy established last year the chapter headings are the same. The chapter on “Molecular and Ionic Interactions in Dielectrics” has been divided into two separate chapters, however, entitled “General Theoretical and Experimental Work” and “Chemistry”. It was felt by the authors that, even though a certain amount of duplication might occur the separation was logical and would result in greater ease of preparation."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The best indication of the increased appeal and importance of dielectrics and insulation systems is the phenomenal growth in the volume of literature in the field during 1961, especially in the areas of ferroelectrics and conduction processes. Much of the work might be classified as “cookbook” type chemistry, however, and it appears that a more generalized definition of the problems and the fundamental requirements of materials would provide a better sense of direction in the numerous investigations. Interest in high temperature applications and the behavior of materials under the conditions of outer space continued to be high and is perhaps the only unifying theme in the work reported. The literature appeared to show a good balance between entirely new materials synthesized for these purposes and the modification or engineering of relatively more well known materials to fit the present day and future needs. There was perhaps somewhat less emphasis on the theoretical or fundamental approach to dielectrics which resulted in a greater concern with the application of existing theories and methods to explain observed phenomena. One very evident trend is the increasing contribution of foreign scientists both to fundamental research and to application work in the areas of dielectrics and insulation. A number of conferences were held abroad this year and fortunately the reports of these and other work is increasingly available in this country. A marked increase in work in ceramics and conduction processes was evident in Russia and the work appears to offer significant contribution. This only serves to make the job of “keeping up” more difficult than ever. Several worthwhile review articles again appeared with the express purpose of keeping work in the proper perspective and pointing the way to basic understanding of the behavior of materials and the interrelation of their chemical, physical and electrical properties."
"Instruments and Measurements: Chemical Analysis, Electric Quantities, Nucleonics and Process Control edited by von Koch and Ljungberg1 contained, in two volumes, the proceedings of the Fifth International Instruments and Measurements Conference held in Stockholm in 1960. It included papers on electric and magnetic quantities, precision electrical measurements and microwave apparatus and techniques. The Proceedings of the URSI Thirteenth General Assembly edited by Hagen2, which was concerned mostly with radio propagation, had a major section on radio standards and methods of measurement."
"The organization of this chapter follows that of previous chapters written by Illinger and Lovell and Forest in past issues of the Digest of Literature on Dielectrics. Several more tables are included. The values listed were taken from the original literature in virtually all cases."
"This year the “Theoretical Chapter” has been split into two separate chapters. As a result of this dichotomy, there is bound to be more duplication than usual, but we hope that things will become more orderly by 1962, as the nature of the two chapters becomes more clearly defined."
"A considerable number of investigations of the optical constants of elements at optical and infrared frequencies were reported. The indices of refraction of liquid and solid argon were measured between 84 and 95°K and 84 and 74°K, respectively1, The dielectric constant of liquid He3 under pressures from 0.2 to 29.5 atm, in the temperature range 0.14 to 1°K was determined2. Measurements of the reflectivity of crystalline Ge in the 7.6 to 18.0 ev region were employed to calculate the index of refraction and the extinction coefficient in the range 0 to 18 ev3. In the infrared region, the optical constants4 and the temperature dependence of the index of refraction5 of Ge were characterized. Hodgson6 reported the optical constants of liquid Ge, Sn and Sb between 4000 and 27000 cm−1, and the same properties were measured for Sb at longer wavelengths, up to 12 µ, at temperatures between 110 and 290°K7. In the frequency region of the intrinsic absorption edge in polarized light, a determination of the optical constants of single-crystal, hexagonal Se was reported8. The optical constants of colloidal Au were measured by Rőmer and v. Fragstein9, and Hodgson10 further reported these quantities for liquid Ag from 4000 to 17000 cm−1. Hass and Waylonis11 measured the reflectance and transmittance of Al films in the visible and ultraviolet spectrum. A numerical calculation of the optical constants of the noble metals of f.c.c. structure, on the basis of the band model, was given by Suffczynski and Michaelson12."
"Examines conduction phenomena in solid dielectrics."
"Based on a preliminary notice a review of work on electron avalanches and avalanche growth in gases by Raether1 was mentioned in the 1960 digest. The publication year has since been changed to 1961 and it is, therefore, also included in the bibliography this year. Several other papers on electron avalanche growth and their statistics appeared. Dibbern2 used photomultiplier techniques to study the electron components of single electron avalanches in methane and nitrogen and their mixtures and gave drift velocities for electrons in some nitrogen-methane mixtures. Legler3 treated the statistics of electron avalanches in electronegative gases theoretically by assuming high fields and large gas amplification. The results were found to agree well with experiments. Electron detachment from negative ions was studied experimentally by Schlumbohm4 who also found good agreement with theory. Kluckow5 treated current growth in a Townsend-discharge theoretically for three different cases by assuming: 1) discharge initiated by a single electron, 2) discharge initiated by a great number of electrons released during the build-up time and 3) discharge initiated by almost simultaneous release of 103 to 106 electrons from the cathode. The latter case could be realized by shining a short flash of ultraviolet illumination on the cathode and in a second paper Kluckow6 treated this case for hydrogen gas. Positive ion currents and conditions for breakdown were also evaluated in this paper."
"The literature in 1961 showed a shift of interest from barium titanate to more complex oxide ferroelectrics. The Russians led in the volume of this effort, with several symposia proceedings devoted to the present subject matter."
"This chapter reviews publications on the electrical insulating properties of elastomeric and plastic materials during 1961. Because of the vast amount of information on this subject, it was necessary to be selective in the choice of publications in order to avoid repetition of data and references to purely commercial announcements. A number of studies on electrical insulating materials, including methods of testing, applications in components, and the influence of environments was reported. Some new polymers are being developed for use in cryogenic and high-temperature applications, and as semiconductors. These and a variety of other pertinent subjects are discussed in this chapter."
"In this chapter, literature concerned with the dielectric properties and insulation applications of polymer films and fibrous materials is reviewed. Although the primary concern is with articles which appeared in 1961, reference is made also to some earlier work not mentioned previously in the Digest. Some articles, for example, those concerned with water absorption, are mentioned because of their important relation to the insulating properties of fibers and films."
"As is usual, the work included this year under liquid dielectrics covers a variety of topics ranging from theoretical work on pure liquids to the applications of impregnated insulations. For the convenience of the reader, these topics have been grouped under the following headings: 1. Dielectric Strength and Breakdown Phenomena 2. Electrolytic Conductance, Dielectric Loss, and Dielectric Constant 3. Ionization and Gassing of Oils 4. Transformer and Cable-Oil Technology and Testing 5. Capacitor Dielectrics 6. Impregnated Insulation Design and Technology 7. New Books"
"A comprehensive treatment of principal insulation materials appeared in Modern Dielectric Materials edited by Birks1. A portion of this work is devoted to the fabrication, dielectric and other properties, and application of ceramic, glass and mica insulation. Introduction to Ceramics by Kingery2 is an excellent, up-to-date text based on understanding through the crystal chemical and phase equilibrium approach. Chapters on “Electrical Conductivity” and “Dielectric and Magnetic Properties” emphasize the mechanisms responsible for the electrical behavior of ceramic and glass systems. The properties of several polycrystalline materials are covered by Ryshkewitch3 in Oxide Ceramics. Electrical data are not extensive, but conductivity values for pure materials are given. Alumina, spinel, magnesia, beryllia, zirconia, zircon, thoria and ceria are treated."
"After a review of the past three issues of the Applications chapter, the author realized that too little attention had been paid to the growing literature in countries other than the United States. In the current chapter, therefore, a more extensive review of the foreign literature has been made, and, in view of the increased length of the chapter, certain United States references have been omitted. Some of the latter are either not of major importance or are continuations of work already reported for which an opportunity for review will occur in subsequent years."
"The provisions of this Recommended Practice apply to the construction and application of controllers for alternating-current motors in the medium-voltage classification (601 to 5,000 volts). Although many of the specifications herein have been influenced by the conditions peculiar to the processing areas of the industries, it is probable that they may be applied to all purchases of controllers for a given company in order to promote uniformity. They are intended as minimum requirements, and should be supplemented where special needs exist."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"Considerable advances in the understanding of transport phenomena in solids have been made in recent years by the extensive study of semiconducting materials such as Ge and Si. Compared with this development, the large range of more highly insulating solids has received far less attention. At present, little detailed information is available on the mechanism of charge transport, which in some cases appears to be fundamentally different from that normally found in semiconductors."
"The electrical properties of polymeric materials depend not only on the chemical composition but also on the structural features associated with the type and degree of molecular order. In the fabrication of polymeric films and fibers various thermal and mechanical treatments alter the physical structure, resulting in profound effects on the electrical properties such as conductivity, specific inductive capacity and dielectric loss. Herein are discussed the relationship between structural variables and the direct current conductance in films from polyethylene terephthalate. This polyester, which is the condensation polymer from ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid, is known commercially in the oriented, crystalline film form as \"Mylar\"* polyester film."
"Some of the fundamental problems associated with the electrical behavior of insulators involve contacts, space-charge effects, and high field phenomenon. CdS has a band-gap of 2.4 ev and ultra-pure crystals having relatively low imperfection densities are available. This paper is a review of some of the important features of conduction in insulators that are observed in CdS. The idea we wish to emphasize most here, is that of conduction by carrier injection. Insulators can pass relatively high current by this mechanism, and as methods are developed for producing better crystals, analytical techniques and devices based on this mode of conduction will become more important."
"The field distribution in \"technical\" chlorobenzene between parallel electrodes, and its dynamics after application of the voltage have been studied by means of the electrooptic Kerr effect. Figure 1 represents the optical set up, composed of a light source 1 (mercury lamp or sliding spark), a vertical slit 2, in the focal plane of a collimator 3, an interference filter 4 followed by a polarizer 5 oriented at 45°, the Kerr cell 6, a quarter-wave plate a rotary power compensator 8, an analyzer 9 and finally a photosensitive surface 10."
"The photoconductivity properties of polyethylene, polystyrene, and an epoxy formulation have been measured at gamma-ray intensities in the range 1.0 rad (H2O)/min to 3.0 × 105 rads (H2O)/min. The source of gamma radiation has been the fission product inventory of reactor fuel elements. Measurements of the photoconductivities have been made at controlled temperatures."
"The effect of gamma-radiation on the electrical conductivity of glasses is of interest because of the practical uses of these insulators and because the mechanism of induced conductivity is not expected to be masked by chemical deterioration caused by the irradiation as in the case of organic insulators."
"The current-voltage d.c, characteristics of several saturated acyclic hydrocarbons (n-C5H12, n-C6H14 and n-C6H16) have been studied in a coaxial electrode arrangement previously described and providing a high field-gradient between the inner (thin wire) and the outer electrode. The liquids were tested after various stages of purification, and under both polarities of the cell. Before any measurement was taken, the cell was carefully conditioned under a high voltage which was increased gradually. After a one-week conditioning, stable, reproducible currents were usually observed."
"Early in 1961, four oil-impregnated paper cables were energized at the Cornell High-Voltage Cable Testing Facility for operation at 345 kv. Each cable is capable of transmitting more than 500 MVA. As part of the research effort connected with the development of low loss insulation for one of the four cables, it seemed desirable to obtain quantitative estimates for the effect of absorbed water on dielectric loss of high voltage paper cables even though there were several estimates already available in the literature. However, these estimates seemed inadequate for several reasons. Either the studies had not been made on modern low-loss materials suitable for Extra High Voltage Cables, or were based on indirect estimates of water content, or appeared to lack internal consistency, or included only a narrow range of water contents. Furthermore, the agreement among the various estimates was not close."
"Carbon black paper screens have been used over the conductor and over the insulation of high voltage cables. This causes a stress dependent rise in tan 5 of the cable which is shown in this report to be related to conditions at the carbon black (CB) paper-insulating paper interface, and not to losses within the body of the CB paper layer. A \"cold-emission\" of electrons is postulated to account for the observed effects of CB paper on tan δ."
"This report covers the tests we have made on polyethylene insulated shielded coaxial cable. It summarizes eight quarterly reports and one final report. Radio frequency cable and triaxial pulse cable have been examined. The Signal Corps must obtain cable from suppliers for various applications. The most critical applications are high voltage ones. It needs to know how long the cable may be expected to live at high voltage but the only information it obtains from the suppliers is the sixty cycle withstand voltage test and the corona voltage. It wants to know what correlations may exist between these measurements, electric strength, and life, as well as what other tests may be necessary."
"Tracking across the wet surface of insulators usually occurs by the advance of a tree-like conducting track growth, extending from one electrode (conductor) to another. These track growths occur by a succession of short tracks extending one after another in a random manner. Each track segment is added by the effect of short discharges occurring between the metal electrode or the tip of an extended carbon track and the edge of a receding surface water film. This film of water serves as a current limiting resistor and, therefore, the magnitude of its resistance, controls the discharge power intensity. These considerations apply to surface tracking as well as to internal tracking; with the exception that in the case of the latter the high conductivity region is located below the surface and tracks may be generated by localized heating effects. In general, internal tracking effects, analogous to surface tracking, follow the penetration of moisture into interlaminar spaces or along individual fibers or fiber bundles which are not bonded to the surrounding resin."
"In earlier phases of this program, which have been reported1,2, a study was made of the effects of electrical discharges in static air on the electrical resistance of different insulators2. The surface power density to which the insulators were subjected was set at different levels (for the initial period of discharge) in the range of 4 to 360 watts/cm2. Two interesting observations made in that investigation were; minima in some of the electrical resistance-time curves with recovery of good insulation characteristics after prolonged periods of discharge, (Class 1 and 2 materials), and greater discharge resistance at 360 watts/cm2 than at lower power densities for certain insulators. The initial decrease in electrical resistance and low discharge resistance at relatively low power densities were associated with carbonization of resin at temperatures below 800°C. Sustained combustion at 800°C and above, and also gas blast effects were the mechanisms suggested for increases in discharge resistance during prolonged periods of discharge and at 360 watts/cm respectively. Therefore, it was desirable to study the effects of discharges also in the presence of a non-oxidizing atmosphere, i.e. nitrogen. This was also prompted by the observed greater discharge resistance in nitrogen than in air below 4 watts/cm (1). Flowing gas was also used, to eliminate from the discharge column organic vapors evolved from the insulators. These vapors, in the static air experiments, altered the conditions of discharge and were decomposed to carbon in the discharge."
"A low frequency bridge and a d.c. charging technique were combined to study dielectric data from 103 cycles/second to below 10-3 cycles/second. This information was assembled with supplementary high frequency data. Two glasses, which represent extremes in dielectric behavior were studied. A comparison of their dielectric response indicates a significant difference in their dielectric constant dispersions. The dielectric constant response, located in a region many orders of ten lower in frequency than the d.c. to a.c. resistivity transition, revealed an extremely large nonlinear dielectric constant dispersion. This dispersion can be classified as an inter-facial polarization and is logically associated with the d.c. resistivity. The dielectric constant response, located in the frequency region adjacent to the d.c. and a.c. resistivity transition, revealed a normal linear dielectric constant dispersion. This dispersion thus appears to be associated with the a.c. resistivity."
"The incorporation of titanium oxide in glasses is widely practiced. From the more fundamental aspect the contribution of the titanium ion to the dielectric properties, particularly the dielectric constant, is of special interest. The dielectric constant of glasses in the TiO2-Na2O-SiO2 system has been measured up to 1010 cycles per second. These glasses have dielectric constants as high as 13 even at this high frequency. The polarisability of Ti+4 is small as may be seen by comparison of the molar refraction of Ti+4 (0.47 cm3) with that of Pb+4 (1.56 cm3) and Ba+2 (3.9 cm3). Hence, the high dielectric constant of the TiO2 containing glasses cannot be attributed to the electronic polarization but must be attributed to ionic orientation of the Ti+4 ion."
"The chemical structure of the repeat unit of polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE) F - C - F - F - C - Cl possesses a molecular asymmetry which gives rise to dipolar relaxation phenomena. The present work involves an attempt to correlate the observed dielectric phenomena in PCTI0 with relaxational effects associated with the glass transition, and to discuss the effects of crystallization upon both Tg and the observed dielectric relaxational phenomena."
"This investigation is part of a larger program designed to clarify the molecular motions responsible for dielectric relaxation in polymers. It has been repeatedly observed that, in polar polymers, at least one and in general two or more relaxation processes are observed. In general a relaxation process is observed above the glass transformation temperature which is undoubtedly associated with the molecular motions which are \"frozen\" below this transformation. These motions are of the type associated with diffusion, i.e. motions of large segments or whole molecules involving translation and rotation."
"Paralleling the increasing availability of oscillators, harmonic generators, detectors, and other microwave components that operate at wavelengths extending into the millimeter range, there has been a gradual evolution of techniques for the determination of the dielectric properties of liquids at these frequencies. The present paper aims to provide a general description of the interferometric method that has been developed in this laboratory1-5. Additional details may be found by consulting the original papers."
"This study was undertaken because many careful dielectric constant measurements at radio frequencies have indicated the possession of small but appreciable dipole moments for supposedly symmetrical molecules1,2."
"Cable dielectric failures often start as \"trees\" originating at various kinds of defects in the insulation. A representative reproducible \"standard defect\" like a needle point offers a rapid method of rating polyethylene compounds for relative inherent dielectric strength."
"When the voltage across a gap containing a gas is increased by only an extremely small, fractional amount in the \"breakdown voltage\" region, the gap changes from a very good insulator to a good conductor. Although the breakdown voltage may be accurately predicted by the Townsend mechanism, the actual breakdown process has been subject to continuing controversy. The purpose of this paper is to present results of a program at these Laboratories to make calculations of the breakdown transition with an electronic computer, the IBM 704."
"The breakdown strength of gases at low pressures increases regularly with density; using this fact, one can extrapolate the strength of a vapor to densities corresponding to the liquid state. An extrapolation of this type is shown in figure 1 for hexane1,2, for comparison, point X shows a typical observed value of the strength of the liquid3. As may be seen, the liquid strength is appreciably lower than the extrapolated value. One of the aims of this investigation has been to bridge the gap between these two extremes in density, and to determine whether breakdown strength is a continuous function of density or whether there is a singularity corresponding to the change of phase."
"Usually investigations of the nature of electrical discharges in gas voids in solid dielectrics are made using ac voltages or at least voltages changing continuously with time. Owing to statistical time lags this implies that each discharge will occur at a slightly different applied voltage always somewhat larger than the minimum Townsend threshold value. We have recently obtained evidence suggesting that the over-voltage is of considerable significance in determining the nature and magnitude of the discharges."
"It is largely within the last five years that treeing has been recognized as a possible mechanism in long time insulation breakdown. The term treeing is used here to indicate the growth of branching breakdown channels within insulation. Treeing differs from uniform field breakdown particularly in that the electric strength of the insulation is exceeded only locally at a concentration of electric stress. Treeing certainly involves time dependent processes and therefore proceeds at a finite rate which may be very slow. One aspect of treeing which adds to its interest is its common occurrence as the final phase of breakdown from corona erosion1,2."
"During an extended study of the dielectric strength of gases, some unexpected peculiarities and regularities have been observed. They were of the nature of difficulties or complications encountered in accomplishing the primary objective of measuring dielectric strengths, and have not been investigated completely. It is hoped, in presenting the information, that others may be able to supplement the data and tentative explanations given below."
"The electrical failure of contaminated insulation surfaces is caused by surface scintillation - tiny arcs. It is often characterized by progressive carbonization in a number of branching and sometimes interconnected channels often called \"tracks.\" The appearance and nature of tracks is dependent upon the concentration of the contaminant and the voltage stress as well as the composition of the insulating material1. With some track resistant material formulations, tracking as described above does not occur, particularly at lower voltage stress and higher contaminant concentrations. Instead, a loss of volume - erosion of the insulation - occurs under the influence of the surface electrical scintillation."
"Space vehicles of tomorrow must depend on electrical insulation which can function at temperatures up to 500°C. Weight limitations will prevent cooling systems for the electrical equipment. Such a radically new insulation system has already been explored and is briefly described below: The requirements of an insulation system for electrical equipment subjected to 500°C are not only for individual forms of electrical insulation which can be processed but also for a completely compatible system of both insulation and electrical and mechanical components. The individual requirements of the insulation are also outlined."
"The major developments in ceramic insulating materials have been made since World War I. These developments parallel the growth of the electrical and electronic industries. The pattern of these developments has been to tailor the properties of the ceramic insulators to specific requirements."
"The use of adhesives and sealants in the electronic industry is growing more important every day. This is especially true in the manufacture of environmental type connectors."
"A paper by the author, presented at the 1959 Annual Meeting of the Conference on Electrical Insulation, described physical and electrical tests developed in the Doble Engineering Company laboratory as accelerated means for evaluating the life service of electrical insulating oils. The physical test uses the Doble oxidizer (ASTM D1904-61T), which has as its end point the first visual appearance of sludge. The electrical test (PFVO) continuously measures and records power factor values throughout the oxidation cycle, which permits a graphic presentation of the characteristics of the oil sample."
"The volume resistivity of boron nitride samples was determined as a function of temperature in the range 100-600C. In plots of log resistivity vs. reciprocal temperature for boron nitride bodies prepared from the same lot of boron nitride, similar curves were obtained. These curves consisted of two straight-line regions - one above 400C and another below 300C. The level of the resistivity for each test specimen depended upon the temperature at which the sample was heated before measurement and also upon the care taken in excluding impurities from the specimen during its preparation. The slopes of the curves in the straight-line regions did not change with different fabrication conditions."
"Measurements of the pH, low and high field conductances have been made for solutions of uranyl nitrate, perchlorate, sulfate and fluoride over a temperature range from 5 to 65°. It was found that solutions of uranyl nitrate and perchlorate exhibit a decrease of conductance with increasing field, or a `negative' Wien effect, a phenomenon not heretofore observed. All these solutions behave as a system of hydrolytic products involved in a complex competitive assemblage of equilibria, in agreement with other experimental work. Theoretical calculations have been performed with which to compare the experimental results. The following three figures depict the experimental results on the nitrate and perchlorate and a comparison with the behavior of the two other uranyl compounds at 25°. It is suggested that a possible explanation of the decrease in conductance with increase in field may be found in the reversal by the field of the equilibrium."
"Ever since the introduction of solid tantalum electrolytic capacitors, attempts have been made to replace the relatively expensive tantalum with other materials. Several patent applications indicate that aluminum, in the form of wire or sintered slugs, has been investigated in this connection. Attempts with aluminum foil are scarcely known, but a British patent, No. 845 698 (patent holder: U. S. Secretary of the Army), indicates that some preliminary work has been done in this line. In the meantime etched aluminum foils of high purity and surface gain have become commercially available, and forming methods resulting in highly stable aluminum oxide layers are now known, so that the successful construction of solid aluminum electrolytic capacitors seemed feasible. A series of experiments were therefore carried on in the laboratories of the Aluminium-Walzwerke Singen, to determine the usefulness of etched aluminum foils in solid aluminum capacitors. Preliminary results indicate that such capacitors can definitely be made with etched aluminum foils."
"The current issue of this Standard is a revision of the previous issue C62.1-1957 to change many of the definitions, to add a new definition titled \"Virtual Duration of Wave Front\" which changes the method of measuring time to crest value, to eliminate the word \"type\" from arrester classification designations as superfluous, to add a 10 kv distribution arrester and 90 kv intermediate and station arresters to the list of standard ratings, to change the standard ratings above 90 kv to multiples of 3, 6, and 12 kv, and to make many editorial changes for purposes of clarification or conciseness."
"Definitions of Inertial Navigation Terms"
"High voltage disconnecting switches are assigned certain ratings by the manufacturer and standard tests are conducted to assure the user that the switch, when new, will perform within the ratings shown on the nameplate. It should be recognized that the switch in service will perform within these ratings only if properly operated and maintained. It cannot be stressed too strongly that prescribed safety rules should be adhered to at all times when operating or maintaining high voltage disconnecting switches near energized equipment or conductors."
