"Lossless three-port networks can be classified at a single frequency according to their off-diagonal scattering matrix entries. We define four classes: one of these is trivial, consisting of networks that are in effect artificial combinations of a two-port and a one-port, or of three one-ports; the other three network classifications are based on whether|S_{21}|is equal to (class E), greater than (class F), or less than (class B)|S_{12}|. A particular scatteringvariable normalization can be chosen for networks of classes F and B to make the scattering matrix that of a circulator. This is not possible for a network of class E even if it is a nonreciprocal network. This classification is applied to the design of narrow-band circulators and to some theoretical properties of negative-resistance amplifiers."
"The driving-point impedance or admittance of a resistor-capacitor or a resistor-inductor network is a schlicht function (univalent) of complex frequency s, in the right-half plane. In that region these networks do not assume any specified value more than once. Several other related results are derived."
"A new high-speed logic circuit which uses tunnel diode switching and transistor isolation is presented. The basic gate is a two-input NOR gate with a logical fan-out of three. Information reduction is possible at a rate of 200 megabits per sec. The transistor is operated continuously in the linear mode. It provides isolation between input channels and unidirectionality of information flow. The tunnel diode is normally in the low-voltage region. A sinusoidal clock current switches the diode into its high-voltage state and back once per clock-cycle. In the presence of at least one input signal the switching is inhibited, hence the NOR-operation. The tunnel diode response to the driving signals is analyzed in considerable detail to determine optimum circuit operation and sensitivity to various circuit parameters. An analysis of circuit operation indicates that excellent operating margins can be expected, which is confirmed by experimental evidence."
"There are any number of pairs of resistance and capacitance density functions, i.e.,r(x)andc(x), which can provide the same electrical performance as a given distributed RC laddernetwork. In general these equivalent networks will have different lengths. A criterion for equivalence of density functions is expressed in the following: Networks with the samertocratio, expressed as a function ofz, are equivalent at network-lengths which correspond to the same value ofz. The variablezis related to the distancexbyz = \\int_0^x \\sqrt{rc} dx. The equivalency criteria can be used to find alternate networks to a given network. Such alternates may be more suitable for fabrication. Examples of networks equivalent to the exponential, proportional and Bessel networks are given. The results apply to tapered transmission lines as well."
"In this paper the author considers the operation of a tunnel diode circuit in which the parameters permit self-sustained oscillations to occur. A set of response relations are derived which characterize the number, frequency, and amplitude of these oscillations. These response relations are analyzed graphically. Using these graphs a method for operating the tunnel diode as a bistable memory device in the present case when oscillations can occur, is explained. The stable modes of operation are a stable oscillation and a stable steady state. These stable operating modes are separated by an unstable oscillation."
"An analysis is made of a four-quadrant ring multiplier in which the currents in the bridge arm inpedances are represented as general, no-memory functions of the arm impedance voltages. Application of Kirchoff's current and voltage laws to the ring circuit yields an implicit functional relationship between the output and drive voltages of the bridge that involves the bridge load resistor and the general arm impedance functions. The form of the Taylor's series expressing the output voltage as a function of the drive voltages is developed for the special but important case in which the ring consists of four identical arm impedance functions. General formulas are derived for the first three nonzero coefficients occurring in this series. An evaluation is made of circuit performance for the case in which 1N72 junction diodes serve as the bridge arm impedances. A direct comparison is made between predicted and measured bridge output voltage for this case with the ring circuit used to square a sinusoidal signal. Finally, an analysis is made of the bridge drive voltage rejection capabilities for mismatched arm impedances. Numerical values of rejection (in db) are computed for each drive voltage from measured parameter values of the 1N72 junction diodes used in the tests."
"A method is presented for constructing the probability distribution functions of the outputs of an RC low-pass filter and a tuned second-order filter for coin-toss square wave inputs. The input is a binary process in which axis crossings can occur only on a set of equally spaced sample points, withp = 1 - qbeing the probability that a crossing does not occur at a given sample point. The method is valid only whenexp (-\\tau_0/T) < 1/2, whereTis the time constant of the filter and\\tau_0is the minimum time between axis crossings. The method involves construction of the point sets which represent the allowed and unallowed values of the output of the RC filter at a sample point. These sets are used to solve an integral equation involving the distribution functions of the output of the RC filter at an axis crossing. It is shown that at a sample point the output of a tuned higher-order filter obeys the same distribution as the output of the RC filter at a sample point. These results are then extended to give the distributions at an arbitrary point."
"This paper considers the realization of the opencircuit impedance matrix or short-circuit admittance matrix of multiport networks containing positive resistors and two types of positive and negative reactive elements. A transformerless canonical structure is derived which employs the minimum number of resistors and at mostnnegative-LC driving-point impedances, wherenis the order of the immittance matrix realized."
"Analytical expressions exist for the optimum resistive terminations leading to maximum power gain in a tuned mismatched amplifier of specified stability. To satisfy other performance requirements, however, terminations differing somewhat from the optimum may be more suitable, and it is of interest to know how closely the optimum terminations must be approached in order for the gain not to fall drastically from its maximum possible value. In this paper an expression is derived for the power gain obtained with a given degree of stability but with general terminations, and the maximum recommended deviation from optimum terminations is expressed very simply. The results of the investigation are discussed and illustrated with special reference to transistor amplifiers."
"A method of estimation and approximate precompensation for the effects of element losses in resistance-terminated LC circuits is presented. Some new theorems are utilized for the special case of ladder networks. The process is valid for a nonuniform distribution of losses; there is, however, a limit to the amount of loss that can be compensated for. The procedure is based on a simple expression giving the firstorder increment of the complex transfer function in terms of quantities normally available from the lossless design. A formula is derived for the lossy response of the network; this has a form which brings out the individual effects of the different parasitic elements in producing distortion, and shows the effects of Q-tolerances of each lossy element. The predistorted transmission function is also given explicitly. The method'is not restricted to treating the effects of dissipation. It is also applicable to other parasitic phenomena (stray capacitances, element tolerances, etc.). The formulas become especially simple and useful for ladder networks. In the case of equal loss factors in elements of the same kind, they present an alternative to Darlington's design equations. Examples are given to illustrate the relative simplicity and accuracy of the method for practical network synthesis."
"A simple visual aid to the correction of filter responses is presented. The type of correction considered is the addition of one pole and one zero in the second quadrant of the complex plane, and at their respective conjugate locations. The incremental phase and logarithmic loss produced by such a pole-zero pair, called for brevity, a pair-shaped correction, is easy to evaluate at any frequency by means of the overlay contours described and illustrated. The equal phase contours and the equal logarithmic loss contours are families of mutually orthogonal circles. Variation of the position and orientation of these contours over the complex frequency plane, suitably scaled, facilitate rapid attainment of a nearly optimal pair-shaped correction."
"Superregeneration is a process in which a circuit is made to oscillate intermittently. In this paper the characteristics of superregeneration in a low-noise cavity-type parametric amplifier are examined both theoretically and experimentally. The superregenerative parametric amplifier is a device performing the functions of both sampling and amplification. Incorporated with a detector, this device can be used for video-modulated signal reception. Because of the internal sampling operation, the frequency of the modulation on the input signal must be less than half the sampling frequency in order for the information to be recovered without distortion. However, input noise and circuit noise may have a bandwidth much wider than half the sampling frequency and therefore produce a folded spectrum at the output of the amplifier. This fact complicates the use of noise figure in determining the sensitivity of such an amplifier. For many applications, sensitivity is a more meaningful figure of merit than noise figure. This paper discusses sensitivity and noise figure and derives expressions for the noise figure. The derivations take into proper account the noise spectrum folding associated with the sampling operation. Experimental data on sensitivity and noise figure are presented."
"The study of distributed networks has been prompted by the trend in electronic equipment toward smaller and smaller physical structures. Various investigators have determined the network characteristics of rather complex distributed RC structures. It is the purpose of this paper to point out the effects of geometrical tapering on the characteristics of distributed RC structures. Uniform (untapered), exponential, and linear tapers are analyzed for the distributed RC line and for a distributed narrow-band-rejection filter. It is shown that tapering is useful for sharpening the cutoff of gain vs frequency for the RC line and it is also useful for narrowing the rejection band of the \"notch\" filter. Transient behavior of the RC line is also investigated. Analytical expressions are presented for the network parameters and for the unit step response of both types of tapered RC structures."
"Parametrically-excited resonant circuits of two-loops or two-node-pairs are dealt with in this paper. Investigation is made on the stability and behavior of the circuits near the four resonant points:2\\Omega_1 = \\omega,2\\Omega_2 = \\omega,\\Omega_1 + \\Omega_2 = \\omega, and|\\Omega_1 - \\Omega_2| = \\omega, where\\Omega_{1}/2 \\piand\\Omega_{2}/2 \\piare the two resonant frequencies and\\omega / 2\\piis the frequency of parametric excitation. In this paper 1) those circuit conditions are obtained by which the parametricallyexcited linear resonant circuit can be reduced to two independent Mathieu equations; 2) the transition curves from stability to instability at the resonant point near\\Omega_1 + \\Omega_2 = \\omegaare obtained under a special condition; 3) the stability condition is obtained near the resonant point\\Omega_1 + \\Omega_2 = \\omega, under a more general condition, 4) an aperiodic (almost periodic) oscillation is obtained near\\Omega_1 + \\Omega_2 = \\omegawhen the circuit is characterized by a nonlinear differential equation; and 5) it is ascertained that instability does not occur at the resonant point|\\Omega_1 - \\Omega_2| = \\omega. Mathematical treatments used here consist of two steps: 1) linear transformation, and 2) an averaging method which reduces a nonlinear nonautonomus differential equation to an autonomous differential equation, assuming that the damping (resistance term), the nonlinearity, and the parametric excitation are all small. Some of the results obtained herein can be applied to a parametrically-excited resonant circuit of more than two-loops or two-node-pairs. No investigation is made for a parametrically-excited resonant circuit with input voltage or input current sources."
"A distributed RC circuit analogous to a continuously tapped transmission line can be made to have a rational short-circuit transfer admittance and one rational short-circuit driving-point admittance. A subcircuit of the same structure has a rational open-circuit transfer impedance and one rational open-circuit driving-point impedance. Hence, rational transfer functions may be obtained while considering either generator impedance or load impedance. The functions have poles only along the negative real axis. Although the number of poles is arbitrary, only two may be chosen with complete freedom in a single unit. The realization of a transfer function with many poles may require a number of units either connected in parallel or isolated. Even for a structure with only two poles, there is a considerable saving in the number of interconnections over the lumped circuit. The loss and total capacity required is often the same order of magnitude as those for lumped circuits."
"When a signal is approximated by a finite set of component signals which span a subspace\\Phi, the least-square approximation may be interpreted geometrically in signal space as the projection of the true signal vector upon this finite dimensional subspace. In case the component signals are one-sided exponentials, the projection operators may be realized by simple physical filters following Kautz' procedure for constructing orthogonalized exponentials. The purpose of this paper is to describe the 'present-instant' error, the 'complementary' signal and the 'complementary' filter which are useful concepts in approximating a signal by one-sided exponential components. An attempt is made to interpret directly in the time domain Kautz' procedure using the 'present-instant' error concept. Some important properties of the 'complementary' signals which prove to be of value in simplifying the process of error energy evaluation and synthesis of the approximating signal, are derived and discussed. In particular, it is found that the 'complementary' filter for a given finite exponential basis is simply an all-pass rational transmittance having zeros in the frequency domain which match the exponents of the basis. This familiar all-pass filter indeed represents an orthogonal transformation which preserves the energy of the signal under transformation. A signal to be approximated is transformed by this filter into the 'complementary' signal which can be separated in time domain into two parts, namely a 'complementary' approximating signal and a 'complementary' error signal. The actual approximating signal and error signal may be recovered independently from them by making certain physical filtering operations."
"A time invariant system is said to be physically realizable if its unit impulse responseh(t)is zero fort < 0. It is often assumed, in treatments of physical realizability, that the Fourier transform ofh(t)is square integrable(L_2(-\\infty, \\infty)). Some use is then made of the regularity of the transform, for real frequencies, to derive further properties of the transform. The condition that the system be stable leads to a different assumption, that|h(t)|be integrable (isL(-\\infty, \\infty)); this implies only uniform continuity of the transform for real frequencies. Physically realizable, stable systems are discussed in this note, and several necessary, and a few sufficient, conditions on the Fourier transform ofh(t)are summarized. In particular, the behavior of the transform for complex frequencies, the Bode relations, and the Paley-Wiener criterion, are reviewed."
"In planning large scale communications networks, the systems engineer must define the best mix of system trunking assignments, switching logic, and system operating policies. Field tests are not usually a practical method of evaluating network performance as the above design parameters are changed-particularly if the networks are complex and if many operating personnel are involved. An alternative to field testing is offered by the use of a model which can duplicate with reasonable fidelity the performance characteristics of the real system. Digital computer simulations are a practical implementation of the modeling approach. If the input-output routines of the computer program are skillfully planned, the computer model can be used to evaluate a broad spectrum of system configurations and operating doctrines under arbitrarily selected changes in the system environment. The construction of the appropriate model must be performed with care. If too many facets of the real life communication process are ignored, the simulation results are meaningless. If the model is too complex, excessively long computer running times might ensue. When the simulation technique is intelligently matched to the problem under consideration, results of considerable practical value are obtainable. In this paper a digital computer simulation technique is discussed and some examples of its application are presented."
"The dual use of trunks for both direct and store-andforward (S/F) traffic makes high trunk efficiency possible. The resultant trunk savings are important in communication systems in which long-haul trunks contribute heavily to the cost of the system. This paper reports work on the computation of trunking tables that could be used to engineer trunk requirements for prescribed loads and distributions of direct and S/F traffic. A method of computation and some specific results in terms of grade of service of direct traffic and traffic capacity for S/F traffic are presented. The numerical results are for two to forty-eight trunks. The results apply to the case of exponentially distributed holding times of both the direct and the S/F traffic."
"The development at the Navy Electronics Laboratory of a low duty cycle, multichannel pulse modulation communication system is described. The system provides adequate naturalness of speech while maintaining a quantized sampling rate which is proportional to the information bandwidth. First, a general description of the speech processing and reprocessing techniques is given. This includes techniques for generating infinitely clipped signals, and for deriving an optimum sampling rate from these signals. Next is shown how two separate forms of information, amplitude and frequency, are conveyed by a time modulated pulse. Finally, is presented the results of tests conducted through the system."
"This report presents a brief mathematical analysis of various modulation-demodulation combinations which may be used in data-link systems. Both digital and analog transmission systems are discussed. For some of the more important digital (binary) systems, the probability of making an error in detecting a binary symbol (using the solutions of Cahn, and Berry and Garbedian) is used to compare the various systems. It is shown that there is no one binary information transmitting system that is superior under all circumstances. Analog systems are discussed in terms of mean-square error (variance), and this criterion provides a convenient method for comparing digital and analog systems. There is a discussion of transmitter and receiver bandwidth-an important consideration for spectrum utilization. A time multiplex PAM system is discussed, along with crosstalk and noise level considerations for such a system. Most of the methods presented here are not new; however, it is hoped that the compilation and direct comparisons of the various modulation systems will be useful and timely for the systems engineer."
"Performance of long-distance tropospheric communication circuits, either singly or in tandem, is predicted in terms of the probability of obtaining a specified grade of service or better for various percentages of time. The grade of service is determined by the minimum acceptable ratio of hourly median predetection rms-signal to rms-noise for the type of intelligence to be transmitted. The standard deviation of prediction errors depends upon the percentage of hours for which the specified grade of service is required and on parameters characterizing the propagation path. The possibility of reducing this standard deviation by making path-loss measurements is discussed. It is shown that no improvement is possible unless the test path is very nearly the same as the proposed operational path; in particular, unless the test path and operational paths have terminals less than one mile apart it is shown to be doubtful in most cases whether the observations will be useful in improving the reliability of the predicted performance of the proposed system. Assuming that the test path and proposed operational paths are identical, estimates are given of the number of days of observations required to halve the prediction uncertainty or, alternatively, to reduce it to 3 db; in some cases several years of observations are required."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Binary decoding of relatively short codes corrupted by Gaussian noise or pulse interference has been considered in applications for which the minimum useful information block length is unity, equal to the information bit capacity of a code, or equal to an integral multiple of the information capacity of a code. The following results pertain to applications which are further characterized by the performance criterion of minimizing error rate and transmitter power, with only minor restrictions on transmission bandwidth and none on channel efficiency (no credit given for error detection): [1] The word error probability for any group error-correcting code is never exceeded by its corresponding bit error probability (for either Gaussian noise or pulse interference). [2] Relatively short codes (10 to 50 information bits) of moderate redundancy (40 to 50 per cent) are available which can reduce bit error rates by factors of 10 to 400, or equivalently, permit 1 to 3 db reductions in transmitter power, when the coded system bit error rate is 10-6(Gaussian noise). [3] These same codes can alternatively reduce word error rates by factors of 10 to 104, or equivalently, permit reductions of 1.5 to 3.7 db in transmitter power, for average word error rates corresponding to values of the quantityE/N_{o}(signal energy per information bit/Gaussian noise power density) in the neighborhood of 8 db for the coded systems. [4] Under worst-case pulse interference, these codes permit 4 to 7 db reductions in transmitter power for average word error rates less than 20 per cent. (Considerably greater improvements result for the pulse interference expected.) [5] All of these codes are easily encoded and decoded."
"The present analysis is a theoretical examination of the asymmetrical sideband transmission in PPM systems. It is shown that the synchronously detected component of the envelope of an asymmetrically transmitted impulse can possess a steeper slope than the envelope itself and that over-all transient time of this component may be reduced. The effect of various degrees of transmission asymmetry is calculated for \"squared cosine\" type transmission-frequency characteristic. The conclusion is reached that for a given channel capacity an asymmetrical sideband transmission in PPM systems should be distinctly superior to a symmetrical one."
"The effective use of predetection (or IF) linear combining of diversity channels requires that all frequency components be added in = phase. In view of the time-variant phase characteristics of fading channels, some form of instantaneous phase correction must be provided prior to the diversity combining so that proper in-phase addition will result. If the instantaneous fading is not uniform over the width of the channel, the resulting channel incoherence will reduce the efficacy of the phase correction. One way to avoid this difficulty is to divide the selectively fading channel into \"flatly\" fading subchannels and perform the necessary phasing and combining operations per subchannel. The question arises as to how much frequency selective fading can be tolerated within a channel, or a subchannel, before serious deterioration in performance results. This paper considers this question with reference to FDM-SSB binary data transmission and matched filter reception, wherein a pilot tone is used both for deriving proper phase correction and for providing the weighting necessary for maximal ratio combining. Analytical expressions are derived for error probabilities which show the deleterious effects of frequency selectivity and pilot tone additive noise."
"In coherent PCM communication systems where the noise is additive and Gaussian (such as in space communication systems) two classes of nonredundant coding are of special interest. One is Regular Simplex Coding which yields the lowest possible error rate for fixed SNR. The other is Bi-orthogonal Coding because of its many desirable features from the practical point of view. In this paper the error rates per word and per bit are computed for both of these classes. The communication efficiency-a quantity of major importance in space communications-is also calculated for fixed error rate as a function of code size."
"In this paper, we present a technique for a combination of amplitude and phase modulation for digital communication. This technique assumes phase coherence between transmitter and receiver. For purposes of analysis, we also assume baud synchronization. The technique involves the simultaneous and independent amplitude modulation of two carriers of the same frequency which are in quadrature with each other. The demodulation process consists of the separation of the in-phase and quadrature components followed by amplitude detection. This scheme appears to be easier to implement than either the system studied by C. R. Cahn or the system investigated by J. C. Hancock and R. W. Lucky. Furthermore this system is comparable in reliability to the latter scheme."
"In this paper we present a theory of interconnecting communication networks which have the appearance of overlapping tessellations. We have derived the bandwidth requirements for two types of networks-the linear spanning and the inclusive spanning. The efficacy of one network as compared to the other is measured by the additional switching requirements for various spanning doctrines."
"This paper is concerned with intermodulation distortion in FM, FDM trunk radio systems due to a number of echoes of differing amplitudes and delay times. General formulas are developed, and applied to the case of a 960-channel system subjected to distortion due to echoes from flanges in waveguide runs. Examples considered are 100- and 200-ft runs of RG-50/U waveguide, in 10-ft sections, for use in the 6000-Mc band. The calculations are carried out with the simplifying assumption (for which there is some experimental evidence), that the individual flange reflections are equal and of the same sign. Distortion levels are computed both with equal section lengths and with section lengths made slightly unequal, so as to destroy coherent addition of the individual echoes. While the latter arrangement gives a considerable reduction, as compared with the equal length arrangement, in the peak input standing-wave ratio, the improvement in the distortion is so small as probably not to justify, in practice, any deliberate variation of the lengths."
"The security of a pulse type communication system can be improved by the incorporation of an element of randomness in the time of transmission. A system is simulated in which a remote receiver is caused to be gated on at apparently random intervals which are in synchronism with the arrival of the signal from the controlling local transmitter. The time of transmission is not random, but is determined by an extremely complex program. By duplicating the program in the remote equipment, the receiver can anticipate the time of arrival of the local transmissions. The time of transmission is varied ± 10 per cent about a nominal period which corresponds to a message repetition frequency of 100 cps. The pseudorandom intermessage variations are governed by the output of an eighteen stage magnetic core shift register. The period of repetition of the pseudorandom transmission is in excess of six minutes and much longer periods are readily obtainable. Special scrambling techniques are used to increase the burden of a would-be code breaker. The system can be operated in either the periodic or pseudorandom mode, and a fail-safe feature is provided to return the system to the periodic mode if the local and remote units become unsynchronized while in the pseudorandom mode. Receiver synchronization is maintained by a voltage controlled clock frequency oscillator which is phase locked to the local transmission. The phase lock compensates for Doppler shift in the received frequency and for any drift inherent in the remote clock source."
"The purpose of this communication is to illustrate a new mode of operation for klystron power amplifiers for SSB or AM signals and to state the experimental results obtained. The major objectives of the development were to obtain maximum efficiency, minimum size and weight, and an acceptable intermodulation distortion in a 24-channel FDM system operating in the 2200-2400 Mc range. Using dynamic control of the klystron beam density, a 480 per cent efficiency improvement was measured with noise loading of the multiplex band. This advance improves the competitive position of SSB or AM as compared with CW forms of communications."
"The effect of different degrees of both slow propagation fading and antenna fluctuations on the performance of communication systems in the presence of interference was analyzed. The performance of the system was evaluated from the aspect of the probability of error which in turn is related to the required system margin. The results are plotted for a large variety of fading conditions for both the desired and undesired signals and antenna fluctuations. Some typical results are given below: Propagation Fading with No Antenna Fluctuations [1] For greater than 85 percentage satisfactory operation, the fading of the additive interfering signal has negligible effect on the probability of error when the desired signal experiences \"strong\" or Rayleigh distributed type of fading. The system margin for 99 per cent of satisfactory operation when the desired signal is Rayleigh fading and whether or not the undesired signal is fading is 20 db. [2] When the fading in the desired path is normally distributed, the effect of a normal fading interference signal is to increase the system margin compared to a nonfading interfering signal by 1 db and 1.4 db for 90 and 99 per cent satisfactory operation, respectively. The system margin for 99 per cent satisfactory operation is 5.2 db and 6.6 db when the undesired signal is not fading and is normally fading, respectively. [3] When there is no fading in the desired signal path and the undesired signal is fading, the system margin for 99 per cent satisfactory operation is 5 db for normal fading and 6.8 db for Rayleigh fading. [4] The system margin for 99 per cent of satisfactory operation when the desired signal is normal fading and the undesired signal is Rayleigh fading is 15 db. The system margin must be increased to 20 db when the desired signal is Rayleigh fading and the undesired signal is normal fading. Propagation Fading and Antenna Fluctuations [1] For a good UHF airborne antenna, the approximate variance of 0.1 is calculated from the vertical and horizontal patterns. The system margin for 99 per cent satisfactory operation is 6.4 db for no propagation fading in the desired or undesired paths. When there is normal fading in both the transmission paths, the system margin for 99 per cent satisfactory operation increases to 8 db or only an increase of 1.6 db over the case for no propagation fading. [2] Increasing the antenna variance to 0.3 causes an increase in the system margin for 99 per cent satisfactory operation and normally distributed fading in both paths to 9.6 db or an increase of 1.6 db due to the increased antenna variance. [3] The percentage of satisfactory operation as a function of system margin for antenna variances equal to 0 and 0.1 for a Rayleigh fading desired signal and a normally fading undesired signal shows that above a 10-db system margin, the curves are indistinguishable. A 20-db system margin is needed for 99 per cent of satisfactory operation. [4] The effect of the antenna variance is very significant when the desired signal is normal fading and the undesired signal is Rayleigh fading. For 99 per cent of satisfactory operation, the system margin must be increased from 15 db to 26 db when the antenna variance is increased from 0 to 0.10."
"In a previous paper the structure of the optimal multi-diversity receiver for a fading, noisy diversity channel was determined under the assumption that the memory of the receiver does not extend beyond the time interval of the signal currently being received. The probability of error for such a receiver is determined herein under the following assumptions: the channel is binary and symmetric; the (Gaussian) noises in the various diversity links are white and independent; and the fadings in the various links are Rayleigh distributed and slow, but not necessarily independent. Detailed curves of this probability of error are given for various orders of diversity in the two cases of independent fadings and \"exponentially correlated\" fadings. Since the optimal receiver may be difficult to implement, a more easily implemented \"square-law combining\" receiver is also considered, and it is shown that for all practical purposes this simpler receiver behaves optimally. Finally the effect of the assumption that the receiver has a short memory is considered by comparing its performance with that of a longer-memory receiver studied by Pierce and Stein."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper considers the need for and the feasibility of direct continental TV broadcast to conventional home receivers from an orbiting stationary satellite. Among the factors considered are time and language differences of the potential audience, the lack of suitable programming material, and frequency allocation problems. Required transmitter and primary power have been calculated for several coverage situations on both a VHF and a UHF channel. These powers are significantly above previous estimates published elsewhere, and above the power capability of even the proposed SNAP 8, 60-kw nuclear reactor except for coverage of limited areas on the ground."
"Of the numerous distortions affecting high quality facsimile reception, noise and echo represent the most troublesome offenders. This paper describes a device which fills the critical need for suppression of noise and echo currents on two-way multipoint facsimile networks. Laboratory test data as well as operational performance results, gathered during field trials of two prototype units, are presented. Additional applications for the device, including TONLOC, disabling of compandors during picture transmission, and possible application to data transmission systems are discussed."
"Multiple frequency shift keying (MFSK) is a modulation suitable for transmitting digital data under fading conditions. A quantitative analysis of MFSK-with-diversity is presented. The MFSK signals on the several diversity channels are presumed to be perturbed independently by Rayleigh fading and additive white Gaussian noise. Also, it is assumed that fading is slow and that envelope, cross-correlation (matched filter) detection is used. The diversity combining method is chosen so that the receiver performs a likelihood-ratio test in deciding which one ofKfrequencies was transmitted. This optimum comibining method is to square and add the detected outputs of corresponding filters from each diversity channel. Theoretical error probability as a function of signal-energy-per-bit received is derived, and curves are plotted for two-, four-, and eight-frequency MFSK-with-diversity. Bandwidth requirements, as a function of type and order of diversity, are determined. Eight-frequency MFSK with triple diversity has a 21.8-db advantage over simple FSK for transmitting 6-bit characters with a 0.001 error probability."
"A digital transmission system withnpossible transmitted symbols is considered. If the time between transmitted symbols is T0seconds and the bandwidth isW, thenpossible symbols correspond tonvectors in a2WT_{0}dimensional signal space. This paper considers the theoretical properties of a class of digital systems where the signal space is two-dimensional. Such systems are both amplitude-and phase-modulated. Approximate expressions are derived for the average probability of error for these systems as a function of the placement of thensymbol vectors in the twodimensional signal space. Optimum placements are then given which minimize this probability of error for a given average or peak power SNR constraint. It is shown that the optimum channel structure is a function of the alphabet sizen, and the type of power constraint, as well as the SNR. In general the optimum system is a phase-modulated system for low SNR's and for alphabet sizesn \\leq 16in the high SNR region. The performance of this optimum system in terms of channel capacity and probability of error is then compared with the performance of one-dimensional systems, AM-only and PM-only, in a complete set of curves for both peak and average power."
"Special radiometric-detection procedures are appropriate when communication signals are severely distorted by a rapidly fluctuating, noisy, time-dispersive channel. This paper presents a performance analysis of some digital communication techniques that can be used when most other techniques fail. Error-probability expressions are derived and evaluated for a wide range of possible operating conditions. Effective use of available signal power is found to be possible on badly behaved channels, provided there is sufficient bandwidth available for the optimization of performance."
"Previous derivations of the influence of fading on the error probabilities of binary data transmission systems have assumed that the fading rate is so slow that fluctuations within a bit may be ignored. This slow fading assumption is removed in the present paper which derives general expressions for the binary error probabilities of incoherent and differentially coherent matched filter receivers employing post-detection diversity combining. In the analysis it is assumed that the transmitted signals occupy a bandwidth much smaller than the coherence bandwidth of the medium so that \"flat\" fading may be assumed. In addition, it is assumed that the amplitude and phase fluctuations produced by the medium have the same statistical character as those of narrow-band Gaussian noise. The general analytical results are specialized to the cases of frequency shift keying using incoherent detection, and phase shift keying using differentially coherent detection, and to the cases of exponential and Gaussian fading correlation functions. For these special cases, signal-to-noise degradation curves are given as a function of fading bandwidth. The PSK system is degraded more rapidly with increasing fading bandwidth than is the FSK system. Curves are given which show the error probabilities and corresponding fading bandwidths for which the noncoherent FSK and the differentially coherent PSK systems break even. For lower error probabilities or higher fading bandwidths, the FSK system becomes superior to the PSK system in the sense of being able to provide the same error probability with less signal-to-noise ratio. The existence of an irreducible error probability is demonstrated for the incoherent and differentially coherent matched filter receivers. Thus, in general, an increase in transmitted signal power cannot reduce the error probability below a certain value depending upon the fading spectrum and order of diversity. Theoretical curves of irreducible error probability are given for the incoherent FSK and differentially coherent PSK systems. An important result of the analysis is that the shape of the fading spectrum can make a significant difference in the amount of signal-to-noise degradation. The results of the analysis also indicate that care must be exercised in employing a \"slow fading\" assumption since, if low bit error probabilities are desired, significant degradations in performance can occur even though the fading rate is quite low relative to the data rate."
"During the last decade there has been a considerable amount of work done on the analysis of digital data transmissions in an interference environment. With few exceptions, the type of additive interference considered is normal noise. This paper treats the case where the interference consists of CW that falls within the pass band of the receiver. The results obtained can also be utilized to ascertain system performance in the presence of interference from similar systems and for certain classes of interrupted CW (ICW) interference. The performance of differential phase-shift, coherent phase-shift, amplitude-keyed, frequency-shift and time-shift binary digital data transmissions is determined. The average digit error probability is taken as the measure of system performance. The element of uncertainty involved in the CW interference analysis is due to random variation in the phase angle between the signal and interference. The performance of systems employing angle modulation is found to be independent of this phase angle for certain values of the interference frequency. In general, it is shown that the digit error probability varies as the arc cosine of a function of the signalto-interference ratio, the function being dependent on the system under consideration. It is shown that, of the systems investigated, coherent phaseshift keying is the best transmission technique in the face of CW interference. The digit error probability in a differential phaseshift-keyed transmission is found to be a sensitive function of the frequency of the interfering tone, and depending on this frequency, can be quite different from that obtained in a coherent phase-shiftkeyed transmission. Frequency-shift keying is found to exhibit the lowest threshold of the noncoherent systems considered, while time-shift keying is found to give an improvement of approximately 4 db over a simple amplitude-keyed system."
"An AFC system has been developed for stabilizing the frequency of a voltage-tunable oscillator near any one of many discrete frequencies. A delay line takes the place of the conventional cavity in the discriminator. The discrete steps correspond to the electrical length of the delay line, e.g., 2 Mc in the S-band system reported herein. Slow frequency fluctuations inherent in the oscillator are reduced; a stabilization factor of 100 has been achieved in a system for jumping frequency rapidly by stepping the tuning voltage. The nature of the hysteresis loops and means for their reduction are discussed. The system is significant for improving the stability and the spectrum of wide-band tunable oscillators as used in frequency hopping apparatus."
"This paper will provide the microwave engineer with the basic techniques of microwave system engineering using large passive reflectors and will outline the many advantages of their use. Small passive reflectors of the \"periscope type\" have been used for many years on microwave systems. Large passive reflectors have also been used but to a much lesser degree. Large passives may be used at intermediate points on long (200 miles or more) microwave links in lieu of active repeaters. Most microwave engineers have little knowledge of system engineering using these reflectors. This paper describes their use in both the \"near\" and \"far fields\" in line-of-sight systems and describes how they may be used on non-line-of-sight systems (tropospheric scatter and diffraction systems). Formulas are developed and graphs provided which will enable the microwave engineer to determine the path loss of multihop passive reflector systems. Large passive reflectors should be considered as another tool which can be used by the microwave engineer for planning and engineering communications systems. When used effectively with line-of-sight, diffraction and tropospheric scatter modes of propagation, communication systems may be engineered more economically, with more reliability and with a decrease in the operating and maintenance problems."
"The performance of cascaded binary communication links in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise is investigated for the cases of constant and Rayleigh-distributed signal levels. An exact expression is derived for over-all error probability for any number of links with constant signal levels. The reliability of five modulation techniques is examined when independent or dependent Rayleigh fading is present on the cascaded system. It is shown that for any modulation technique the reliability is higher when the fading is dependent than when it is independent. It is also seen that the presence of Rayleigh fading affects reliability more than the degree of correlation of the fading, provided the number of links is small. The results of these analyses afford the designer a basis for a suitable trade-off between the number of relays and individual link reliabilities for a specified over-all system reliability."
"All possible data symbols are divided into two categories, designatedAandB. Transmitted data is subject to the constraint that all information appears in fixed locations within any message. In addition, the message is divided into segments, with each segment containing symbols of only one category. In all messages each segment is identical with regard to the category of data contained within that segment. Subject to these constraints, a class of error-detecting codes with absent parity bits is derived. The derived class is capable of true error detection of single-bit errors since the addition of one parity bit per symbol does not improve the probability of detecting such errors. Suprisingly, codes subject to the initial constraint can find fairly wide application in weather data transmission equipment, airline reservation systems, commercial data communication networks, and other fixed-format type information-handling and processing systems. The paper concludes with an introduction of parity bit considerations subject to the initial constraint and indicates that a single parity bit will detect the presence of two random single-bit errors per symbol in 50 per cent of all cases."
"In PAM time-multiplexed transmission systems, interchsnnel crosstalk arises when each sample is not confined to its assigned time slot. Even though perfect circuits are used to gather ideally-time-separated samples, subsequent transmission through a common medium of limited bandwidth causes each sample pulse to tail off into neighboring time slots, rather than be confined to its own time slot. Not only insufficient high-frequency transmission, but also insufficient low-frequency transmission can contribute significantly to inter-slot (hence interchannel) crosstalk when baseband signals are considered. In this paper, general crosstalk considerations in PAM timemultiplexed transmission paths are first discussed. The detailed dependency of crosstalk on upper and lower cutoff frequencies is then analyzed, considering all significantly-interfering samples. Some of the more formidable expressions that obtain are next reduced to very simple design equations by judicious application of valid and practical assumptions. The paper concludes with a numerical example and a few general comments concerning extensions and restrictions of the results. Major emphasis is placed on the lower cutoff dependency which has apparently received only empirical, not analytical, treatment in past literature."
"A new method of generation of a single-sideband signal has been developed which provides distortionless reception with a square-law envelope detector. This performance is achieved through a new system design rather than a less subtle method, such as carrier reinsertion. It is well known that a single-sideband signal can be represented as a combination of amplitude and phase-modulated signals. Most methods of single-sideband generation do not allow separate control of the amplitude and phase modulation. However, in the system described in this paper the amplitude and phase-modulation components are generated separately and have a specific functional relationship with each other. The amplitude-modulation envelope is the square root of the waveform to be transmitted and the phase modulation is the Hilbert transform of the logarithm of the envelope. A signal generated in this manner will occupy a bandwidth equal to the bandwidth of the original modulating signal and may be received without distortion with a square-law envelope detector. Tests on the system have shown that it is possible to obtain [1] an average of 25-db sideband rejection using band-limited white noise as the modulating signal, and [2] an average of 2 per cent harmonic distortion and 9 per cent intermodulation distortion using a square-law detector."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Quite a lot of reports on monopulse systems have been published in recent days. The analysis has mostly been confirmed to pure amplitude sensing or pure phase sensing. If amplitude and phase are allowed to vary simultaneously the general formulas will be rather lengthy. The situation is suggestive of transmission line calculus where the usefulness of the Smith chart is well known. In a slightly modified form this chart is a convenient aid in analyzing the influence of various parameters in the most common monopulse systems."
"Several promising techniques for instrumenting error-correcting codes are briefly described. These techniques consist of digital decoders for the binary symmetric channel and for the binary erasure channel, and analog word correlators for variable and low bit-rate operation. The performance pay-off of these techniques in comparison to their implementation simplicity indicates the possibility of incorporating them into certain types of communication systems with advantageous results."
"This paper presents a detailed analysis of the output signal-to-noise ratio for a correlator consisting of a multiplier followed by anRCaverager. Both the signal and the noise are assumed to be band-limited functions with Gaussian amplitude distribution; but no restrictions are imposed on either the input SNR or the product of the bandwidth and the time constant of the averager. A family of curves are plotted relating output and input SNR's for values ofRC\\Deltafranging from 0.1 to 100. The dependence of output SNR characteristics on the relative values of bandwidth and center frequency is discussed."
"A special issue of these Transactions is being organized on satellite and space communications. This issue will be planned to provide an integrated survey, and an assessment of the current state of development, of the major problems facing us today in realizing systems for space communication and in developing satellites as 811 effective new transmission vehicle. The probable publication date of the Special Issue on Communication System Theory is June, 1963. Suggestions for the Special Issue on Communications Nets are invited."
"ConsiderNterminal sets connected to a \"black box\" byNlines, one from each set. This box hasK \\leq Noutput lines. This box connects one of the input lines to one of the output lines when so requested and breaks that connection when the terminal has finished transmission. The output lines can be connected to the input lines in many different ways. Each method leads to a different cost and efficiency. As a measure of efficiency, we take the average time that a message, which arrives at random, has to wait before it can be transmitted. Using queuing theory we show that the mean waiting time is the same for any method of services however, the standard deviations differ."
"A four-quadrant analog multiplier is described which uses the variable channel conductance properties of the field effect transistor. This multiplier is characterized by moderate accuracy, high speed and circuit simplicity. As such, it may be useful in many applications where speed is important but a high degree of accuracy is not. Such an application is found in synchronous detection circuits desirable in some types of communication systems."
"The application of frequency-compressive feedback around an amplitude-insensitive FM demodulator promises important reductions of distortion and noise sensitivity in the demodulation of wide-band FM signals. In this paper, the basic theory of FM demodulation with frequency-compressive feedback (FCF) is presented after a brief discussion of the concept of noise threshold and of the usefulness of threshold reduction techniques in relaxing important requirements in the design of reliable communication systems. It is shown that the simultaneous presence of distortion and open-loop phase shift sets an upper bound on the amount of feedback that may be applied before inducing a rapid deterioration of system performance. This upper bound may fall well below the upper bound imposed by Nyquist's stability criterion. Thus, although the system may be stable in the usual sense, it may be incapable of tracking an applied FM signal either because of insufficient compressive action or because of open-loop phase shift that causes the distortion to rise with increased feedback. It is also shown that the system may be modeled (only approximately) by a linear feedback circuit provided that both the applied compressive action is sufficient to reduce the deviation ratio to a value much less than unity, and the SNR at the input of the feedback circuit exceeds or equals the threshold of linear output-inputS/Nrelationship for a conventional FM demodulator. The linear dependence of the output SNR upon the input SNR is shown to be a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for the validity of the linear model. It is shown in this paper that the threshold of linear variation of the output SNR with the input SNR for an amplitude-insensitive FM demodulator with frequency-compressive feedback (FCF), driven directly from the linear stages of the receiver, is equivalent to that of a conventional FM demodulator that is driven from a noise bandwidth equal to one-third of the closed-loop noise bandwidth, or to the loop band-pass filter noise bandwidth, whichever is larger. When the closed-loop noise bandwidth is larger than three times the band-pass filter noise bandwidth, the band-pass filter bandwidth can be widened until it equals one third of the closed-loop noise bandwidth without changing the closed-loop noise bandwidth, provided a permissible compensating change is introduced in the loop low-pass filter. If this is done, the system will be able to accept a signal of wider deviation ratio and hence give better highS/Nperformance with the same threshold. In this sense, the FCF loop may be said to be optimized relative to the input signal if with the amount of feedback that is necessary to compress the frequency of the signal by the maximum permissible amount, the closed-loop noise bandwidth is equal to three times the noise bandwidth of the loop band-pass filter. The introduction of an amplitude limiter in front of the FCF loop is shown to raise the threshold of linear output vs input SNR back to the corresponding threshold of a conventional FM demodulator."
"Three types of HF and VHF crystal controlled transistor oscillators are experimentally studied to assess their frequency shift bandwidth and stability properties. The capacitance bridge oscillator exhibits a bandwidth under certain circuit conditions of 0.1 per cent of center frequency, with amplitude modulation of 1 db, but degraded frequency stability. Combining this oscillator with another exhibiting superior stability in the low VHF band results in a hybrid oscillator circuit in which frequency can be shifted 0.02 percent with good power regulation. Frequency stability is 0.46 ppm/\\degCand 3 ppm/10 per cent change in supply voltage. Most of the experiments were conducted at 35 Mc, but higher order modes to 150 Mc were also investigated."
"An analytic and quantitative study is performed of the programming of transmitter power output to minimize the energy consumption required to maintain a specified minimal information rate from an astronautical vehicle to a terrestrial receiving system over the trajectory of the vehicle. The representative trajectories used as a basis of discussion include an idealized, rectilinear trajectory, deep-space probe with variable terminal ranges, and solar circular orbits at variable radii in the plane of the ecliptic. For the first, consideration of the integral of the admissible lower bound to the radiated power shows that the minimal energy consumption is five eights of that resulting from a constant power output program. An optimal two-stage program is shown to be an efficient approximation to the idealized one of continuous power variation. The transmitter-receiver relative range at transfer from low to high power output and the resultant energy consumption are each seen to be approximately 0.7 of their respective maxima. For the orbital case, the economies resulting from an optimal program are seen to be moderately functionally dependent upon the orbital radius, but independent of the sense of motion of the vehicle within its orbit. As before, a satisfactory two-stage fixed transmitter program may be defined, in which the optimal time of transition between stages is independent of the orbital radius and sense of rotation. In passage from inferior to superior conjunction, the optimal transition between the two stages is at CT and, in passage from superior to inferior conjunction, at (1-C)T, where C = 0.42 and T denotes the time interval involved in the change from inferior to superior conjunction, and conversely. Variational methods are used to determine a lower bound to the energy consumption if the totality of information output is specified and the system is assumed to be operating at the maximum channel capacity corresponding to the instantaneous power radiation level. It is shown that if the mission duration and the totality of information communicated are both large, independently of the trajectory the resultant minimal energy consumption corresponds to the difference of that of a constant power output system and one programmed to yield a fixed signal power density at the receiver. Lastly, generally applicable contours are provided which display the relative energy consumptions involved in the optimal and approximating power radiation programs, and the transmitter-receiver separations at the time that switching of the transmitter power level is to be accomplished for both categories of trajectories."
"A six-bit analog-to-digital (A/D) encoder for use in multiplexing a number of voice communication channels is described and experimental results presented. The method of encoding employs the two-terminal multistable voltage-current characteristic that can be produced with a number of negative resistance elements connected to a common source. The basic element is a modified transistor flip-flop having av-irelationship as seen between ground and its emitter terminal tailored in a desired manner. Five such flip-flops connected in parallel and a polarity bit extractor form the encoder proper. The encoding speed measured for an accuracy of 20 per cent of a step was 16 μsecs/character. The complete system that was built and tested includes the associated circuitry for holding and stretching the PAM signal as well as readout and generation of timing pulses. A decoder was built to allow objective as well as subjective tests on the over-all system. A signal to quantizing noise of 6 db/bit and 44.5 db over-all was measured with a 1100-cps sinewave at full load using a spectrum analyzer. Listening tests were also performed and the results discussed."
"This paper presents the synthesis and design of a wide-band radio communication system capable of providing trunk circuits 6000 miles in length with a capacity of 72 voice channels. A hypothetical reference circuit is used which corresponds to that recommended by the CCIR for radio relay systems. From the reference system, performance requirements for radio relay systems using line-of-sight and tropospheric propagation modes are developed. The requirements are reduced to numerical quantities which are directly related to the parameters required in the system design. The basic qualities of the system which are used for performance criteria are the signal-to-noise ratio of a voice channel and the minimum margin above system threshold. The noise in any link of the system comes from a number of sources and the noise accumulates as links are added in tandem; therefore to insure that minimum signal-to-noise ratios are obtained over circuits as long as 6000 miles, the total noise objectives must be carefully apportioned among links and among sources within the links. The statistical properties of certain of the noise sources are accounted for by statistical accumulation and a complete specification of the individual path performance requirements for both line-of-sight paths and tropospheric scatter paths is developed. The individual paths are also analyzed from the standpoint of reliability or digital error rate and the resulting criteria are used in setting the necessary system gain required to achieve the noise performance simultaneously with the reliability."
"Assuming very low signal and noise power at the receiver, the transmission rate of information is calculated for peak power and average power limitation. These calculations are made using the assumption that the signal energy received is a Poissondistributed random variable. The result is compared with that in the high-power case."
"The time-slot mismatch loss will be avoided and the time-slot assignment will be simplified in a time-division exchange system in which the calling and the called subscriber can use independent time slots arbitrarily assigned. Code-modulation techniques make such systems economically realizable, since a tapped magnetostrictive delay line or a shift register can be used to interchange time slots assigned to the calling and called subscribers. A skeletonized experimental model to demonstrate the feasibility of the system has been developed, and its subscriberline circuit and signaling and tone system are described here. The delta-modulation technique is employed for the purpose of simplifying the modulator and demodulator circuitry and of economizing the time slot interchanging device. The modulator circuitry is considerably simplified by using a monostable blocking oscillator to perform combined operation of comparing, switching and locally-decoding. The simplification makes it possible to install a modulator and a demodulator per subscriber. The signaling and tone system is equipped with three modulators which are commonly used by all speech channels. The signal-to-noise ratio of the subscriber-line circuit with 50-kc sampling rate is 30 db at 800 cps which conforms well to the theoretical estimation."
"Many information transmission systems use a discrete (digital) channel. Since most input signals are continuous, the conversion cannot be accomplished without an error which, for many cases, may be considered to have the characteristics of white noise. A method has been suggested to reduce this error by using linear feedback around the quantizer to shape the noise spectrum. Each output sample will then contain not only signal information but also information about the errors in the previous samples. Such a system is analyzed for random input signals of a rather general nature. Under assumptions allowing essentially no clipping in the quantizer and setting an upper bound on the coherence between samples of the input signal, the system can be represented by a simple model. A comparison is made of the mean-square error with and without feedback. It is shown that considerable reduction in noise power can be obtained by a slight increase in sampling rate. For example, an increase of 25 per cent in the sampling rate provides a 95 per cent decrease in error-noise power. This is equivalent to having about two additional bits per sample in the transmission channel."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An \"inhibited\" error-correction decoder is defined as one which inhibits its output of decoded information bits when an uncorrectable error is detected. The output bit error rate, probability of false acceptance, and other performance parameters of inhibited decoders are expressed as responses to uncorrectable errors and the effect of such errors on several error-correction decoders of practical interest is described in terms of the numerical results of a computer simulation."
"This paper traces the history of lasers in relation to communication and other applications from their inception to early 1962. Documentation includes books and periodicals including foreign language research."
"Modern communications systems are made up from a wide variety of building blocks and they utilize many different techniques. The system designer must first consider what equipments will meet the requirements of the user and should then determine the total cost, i. e., capital cost as well as operating cost of the possible choices. This paper discusses the technical factors to be considered and outlines a proper procedure for determining cost. The appendixes give current cost information for different types of systems."
"A study is made of possible routing procedures in military communications networks in order to evaluate these procedures in terms of future tactical requirements. In Part I this study is devoted to procedures involving random choices. In such networks each message path is essentially a random walk. Estimates of the average traverse time of each message and average traffic flow through each node are derived by statistical methods under reasonable assumptions on the operating characteristics of the network for various typical random routing procedures. This paper does not purport to present a complete system design. Many design questions, common to all network routing problemsresponse to temporary loss of links or nodes, rules for handling of message priorities, etc.-are not considered here. It is shown that random routing procedures are highly inefficient but extremely stable. A comparison of these theoretical results with the results of an extended computer simulation effort lends support to their reliability, discrepancies being accounted for by the simplifying nature of the statistical assumptions. It is suggested that in circumstances where the need for stability outweighs the need for efficiency, this type of network might be advantageously employed."
"This part of the report on routing procedures is devoted to procedures involving no random choices. Estimates of the average traverse time of each message and average traffic flow through each node are derived by statistical methods and compared with the corresponding results obtained in Part I for routing procedures based on random choices. These estimates are verified by means of a large-scale simulation experiment. The overwhelming advantages of directory procedures in efficiency and capacity of operation are expressed quantitatively by these results. The disadvantages of directory procedures are also investigated. Principal among these are the necessity of determining optimal routes from directory information and maintaining the directories in the presence of a hostile or fluid environment. Estimates of the degradation characteristics of such procedures are obtained under various assumptions on the effects of the environment. The final section presents a summary and conclusions."
"Group synchronization systems with digital feedback are studied, which are particularly applicable for PCM systems. Group synchronization is used to determine the time origin of a sequence of binary signals by finding a specified deterministic pattern from a randomly modulated binary sequence. A statistical analysis is made on the recovery process of synchronization, which is a discrete-time random process with finite-state transitions. A new system with faster recovery characteristics is presented, and an optimal framing pattern is shown. Considerations on the minimization of the recovery time and on the improvement of the stability of synchronism are also made. Experimental results obtained by a recovery process simulator are shown together with the theoretical results."
"Asynchronous time multiplexing is proposed as a more efficient alternative to synchronous time multiplexed PCM. The analysis here evaluates the asynchronous method when extremal coding is used with the speech sources. Assuming a Poisson relation for the occurrence of multichannel samples, the buffer action is analyzed using an iterative probability calculation and computer experiments. Using chosen parameters, the over-all digit rate is then evaluated. For these parameters a 100-source asynchronous system requires only one-third the digit rate of a synchronous multiplex. About a 5-db loss in signal-to-noise may be expected, due to the extremal coding. Two additional features are: 1) 20 per cent of digit rate is available for nonreal time data; and 2) the usual elastic overload of asynchronous systems is present. These theoretical results indicate that the asynchronous method should supplant synchronous multichannel cases if bandwidth is sufficiently important to justify additional equipment."
"This paper considers the problem of optimally detecting digital waveforms in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise. A technique for representing the transmitted signals and the additive noise which leads to a geometric interpretation of the detection problem is presented on a tutorial level. Subsequently, this technique is used to derive the optimum detector for each of three basic data transmission systems: m-level Phase Shift Keyed, m-level Amplitude Shift Keyed and m-level Frequency Shift Keyed. Corresponding probability of error curves are derived, compared and discussed with reasonable detail."
"The second method of Liapunov is used to study asymptotic stability of feedback control systems with single non-linear elements. The paper aims at a systematic development of Liapunov functions in terms of canonic transformations of state variables. This approach yields various simplified stability criteria; a rather complete table of such criteria is included. Several insights believed novel concerning the failure of the method in certain practical cases are presented. The root locus of the linear portion of the system is used to predict the applicability of the method. The proposed pole- and zero-shifting techniques extend the applicability of the method to many practical systems in which the method would fail without these techniques."
"An approach to the analysis and synthesis of adaptive control systems taking into account the effect of inexact measurements is presented here. The approach is based on the method of generalized quantized compensation. The mathematical tools needed for the analysis are adapted from the discipline of statistical inference. In particular, decision theory is used. An important consequence of inexact measurement is that the problems of identification and of control cannot be considered separately. Decision theory is used as the link that logically relates the two. Current application of decision functions has mostly been limited to cases where the unknown parameters to be determined can take on only discrete values. In view of the continuous variation of the parameters, assumptions that they take on discrete values lead to results whose optimality is not justifiable. Several possible extensions are presented. In addition, a sequential decision scheme that can be applied to reduce expected measurement time is presented. An attempt is made to make the statistical analysis largely self-contained and lucid to those not familiar with statistical inference procedures."
"The limitations in classical feedback that might justify the more complex plant or process adaptive systems are studied. Some of the limitations cited in the adaptive literature apply only to the classical single-degree-of-freedom configuration and not to the classical two-degree-of-freedom structures. Model and conditional feedback configurations are not superior to ordinary two-degree-of-freedom configurations. Time invariant (classical) compensation is adequate for coping with the sensitivity and disturbance problem in lightly damped and drifting plant poles. Two significant limitations in ordinary linear feedback systems that may justify the adaptive approach are: a) Their susceptibility to feedback transducer noise when the plant by itself does not have the loop gain area required for the desired sensitivity properties of the system; b) The limited sensitivity reduction achievable in nonminimum phase and unstable plants. The first of these may be eased by a multiple-loop design and the second by a parallel plant design. However, it has not been shown how the adaptive systems overcome the limitations of ordinary feedback systems."
"A performance measuring, plant-adaptive control system is described. A linear plant having two variable parameters induces a large system error which is reduced by adjustments made in two controller parameters. An adaptive computer, the logical design of which is based on a modification of Newton's method of descent, generates the controller-parameter changes from measurements of the integral-of-error squared (ISE). This method is evaluated with regard to the time interval required to reduce ISE from a large initial value to a small prescribed limit. The average adaptation time for this system is shown to be approximately sixty times the response time of the system when the system error is zero."
"This paper extends to discrete systems the method of complex convolution developed by Weber [6] for continuous systems. In this paper the convolutionz-transform method is applied to obtain an explicit solution of certain nonlinear difference equations. The explicit solution is often desired for system design as well as for obtaining the response for large intervals of time. In these difference equations which describe the physical discrete systems, it is assumed that the nonlinearities are \"small.\" This is necessitated by the form of solution applicable to the use of the convolution method. The advantage of the method is to systematize the procedure for the solution as well as to obtain results in a closed form. The convergence of the solution is discussed as well as applications to certain examples. Two numerical examples are worked out to illustrate the method. Explicit approximate solution is obtained and the results compare favorably with the numerical solution of the nonlinear difference equation as a recurrence relationship."
"In the theory of linear prediction and/or filtering, it is well known that the optimum linear device obtained using the minimum mean-square error criterion is also optimum for a much wider class of symmetric error criteria if the input process is Gaussian. This result is extended here to include nonsymmetric error criteria as well as the case of nonstationary Gaussian inputs. A simple direct proof is given which exploits the fact that the probability density function of the error is known explicitly. The method consists of showing that the expected value of the generalized error weighting function\\phi(\\epsilon)is a monotonic (nondecreasing) function of the mean-squared error."
"With regard to the asymptotic stability in the large of nonlinear, autonomous sampled-data systems, the following conjecture has been quoted frequently in the literature. Namely, \"if the lineafized system is stable for all points of the state space, the original nonlinear system is asymptotically stable in the large\" (henceforth abbreviated a.s.i.l.). This paper shows by counter examples that the statement is not true in general. Both total and incremental linearizations are considered and in both cases the conjecture is false. Finally, a sufficient condition for a a.s.i.l, is given."
"In feedback control systems in which more than one transfer function must be specified, a multi-degree-of-freedom configuration is required. In many practical situations a two-degree-of-freedom configuration is of interest. This paper deals with the conditions that must be fulfilled in the choice of transfer functions so that two sets of specifications can be fulfilled by a given configuration. The possibility of implementing two sets of specifications independently is determined by the degree of complexity allowed in the individual transfer functions of the system. A method is described by which the compatibility of a given structure with a set of specifications can be insured. With the aid of a procedure which is illustrated in two examples, the minimum degree of complexity in the individual blocks is determined in relation with the high-frequency behavior of the system."
"Sampled-data control systems generally have fixed sampling frequencies which must be set high enough to give satisfactory performance for all anticipated conditions. A study is made here of an adaptive system which varies the sampling frequency by measuring a system parameter. It is shown that a sampler followed by a zero-order hold whose sampling period is controlled by the absolute value of the first derivative of the error signal will be a more \"efficient\" sampler than a fixed-frequency sampler. That is, over a given time interval, fewer samples are needed with the variable-frequency system than with a fixed-frequency system while maintaining essentially the same response characteristics. Analog computer studies of simple Type I and Type II sampled-data servo systems with error sampling and unity feedback verified the method. Standard analog computer components were used to set up a simulated servo system, a rate detector, absolute-value detector, a voltage-controlled oscillator, and a sampler and zero-order hold. The system described reduced the number of samples required for response to a step input to about three-quarters that required in a fixed-sampling-frequency system. Over a long period of time savings in the number of samples required can be expected to be between 25 and 50 per cent. In many applications the savings produced by reducing the over-all number of samples required may outweigh the added complexity of the adaptive-sampling-frequency system."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Unsymmetrical half periods exist in a system with static and kinetic dry friction. The time duration under kinetic and viscous friction is much shorter than that under static friction alone. The condition of sustained oscillation is formulated and determined by a modified describing function method. The accuracy of this mothod is evaluated by comparison to an exact analysis."
"In this paper a method is described for evaluating the dynamic performance of the operation of an organization. It is shown that the performance response of past efforts can be expressed mathematically by means of performance operators leading to the development of a mathematical model of the process of industrial operations. This paper considers the operation of an engineering organization as a dynamic system and shows that the organization may be treated as a feedback control system with all control techniques of analysis and synthesis applied. Industrial organizations are complex systems of integrated functional departments, sections, and groups. Management control is obtained by functional capability and feedback. The operation of producing a desired design and product represents a multi-loop feedback control system. Feedback provides a continuous measurement of the actual performance as the design and fabrication of the product progresses; the actual progressive accomplishment is compared to the requirements of the job. Control is obtained by means of the corrective action taken to reduce the deviation between the actual and desired result. The science of automatic control analysis as applied to engineering organizations is directly analogous to that applied to the weapon and industrial process control systems. A key measure of performance for a specific output requirement of a design or product is the relation of progressive accomplishment versus time. Accomplishment is measured by means of a number of relations, such as, degree of completion, man-months of effort, or cost to produce. Time of project performance is measured in weeks or months. The historical data of accomplishment versus time provide the dynamic performances of the functional departments as subsystems. These dynamic performance characteristics are analyzed and transformed into mathematical operators or transfer functions. Block diagrams of the integrated and cooperating project groups provide a picture of the organizational system. Feedback is predominant in such a system. A well-trained and efficiently operating organization may be considered as a complex machine. The combination of block diagrams and subsystem transfer functions provide a mathematical model of the organization and a basis for synthesis as used in feedback control systems. Examples of the above procedure are demonstrated by the use of specific case histories of a number of projects. Fundamental considerations are given of the application of time lags, dead time, lead compensation, linearity, non-linearity, sampled data, adaptive control, stability, etc., using transient and frequency response techniques. The application of synthesis indicates the measures to be taken by management to improve the organizational structure and its performance. For instance, the effects of reducing dead time, of operating as a project group versus functional groups, and of sampling performance on a weekly rather than monthly basis are explicitly investigated. The result of the dynamic analysis of organizational systems represents a new tool using known techniques for management control in the real technological sense."
"\"Synchronous\" networks, also called \"chopper\" networks and \"commutated\" networks, consist of passive elements plus driven switches or choppers. R-C chopper networks have been used occasionally as compensating networks in A-C servos. Their main advantage is a response independent of carrier frequency variation, and freedom from zero drift. Their main disadvantage is noise output in the form of harmonics of the carrier. In this paper a rigorous analysis of an idealized R-C loaded chopper is presented. It is shown that the main component of the response is indeed independent of the carrier frequency."
"Optimum transient response can theoretically be obtained with a servo system operated in an on-off mode. Although phase plane techniques can produce an optimum system for positional inputs, it is shown that a phase plane analysis is invalid for velocity inputs for a type 1 control servo. A novel approach to the problem is presented which permits an optimum switching procedure to be obtained for velocity inputs, while validity is retained for positional inputs. The resulting system has the properties that the steady state error for both velocity and positional inputs is zero, and no more than two switching cycles are ever needed to return the error to zero."
"A control system is proposed which utilizes a multiple regression technique for optimal control of a multivariate nonstationary process. The concept underlying this system is the basing of each set of control actions on a current statistical description of the process, so that the adjustments performed will cause control of the output in an efficient manner. Adjustments are made to occur at discrete intervals. Descriptions of the applicable statistics and the computations required are presented, and the problem of choosing decision rules to relate control actions to process statistics is discussed. Several decision rules of practical importance are examined."
"In designing a feedback control system involving a variable (or incompletely known) plant the prime consideration, besides obtaining a satisfactory transfer function, is to specify a system which is insensitive to plant variations. Some procedures for obtaining insensitive designs have been described in the literature, but they all result in systems having large open loop bandwidths. In the presence of instrument noise such systems would tend to produce an excessive noise output. In this paper a minimization is carried out, where the conflicting requirements of small sensitivity to plant variations and insensitivity to instrument noise are satisfied simultaneously. The solution is approximate, but can be justified in most physical situations. A method for iterating the solution is also described."
"An investigation has been made in the application of sinusoidal techniques to adaptive feedback control systems. The adaptive feature of this approach is an automatic gain control. These systems contain two loops: a basic or primary control loop and an adaptive control loop. The forward-path gain of the basic loop is adjusted by the adaptive loop. A sine wave test signal is added continuously to the basic loop input and to a model. The phase shift or the amplitude of the basic loop output is measured by an adaptive computer which adjusts the forward-path gain in an attempt to hold the measured amplitude or phase-shift constant. This paper contains derivations of the adaptive loop response to changes in the process gain factor for several cases. Some of the considerations pertaining to the design of the adaptive control loop are also given."
"An investigation is made to determine the conditions under which a third order system with a bi-stable element will maintain a high frequency oscillation rather than exhibit simple relay switching. A criterion is developed in general terms. The study is made in phase space and vectors are used to determine the direction in which the trajectory intersects the switching plane. The appendix contains an example wherein the criterion is applied to a specific system and the results compared with computer data."
"A systems treatment of the dynamic behavior of nuclear rocket propulsion systems is presented. This simplified analysis does represent the basic ideas of more detailed computer studies. Nuclear reactor systems for space propulsion are much faster than conventional reactor systems which complicates the controls problem. (The dynamics of chemical systems have been simpler in nature due to their speed of response.) One attractive solution, which uses the propellant reactivity, is discussed."
"Tory II-A, the first experimental reactor in the Pluto nuclear ramjet program, will be tested in late 1960 at the Nevada Test Site of the Atomic Energy Commission. The fundamental objective of Tory II-A is to demonstrate that a high power-density, high-temperature, air-cooled reactor can be successfully designed, constructed, and operated. This application places requirements on the reactor control system which are considerably more stringent than those found in previous reactor systems, both from the standpoint of radiation environment and system performance. To fulfill the system requirements a high-performance reactor control system has been designed and built; control actuation hardware has been developed which can withstand the high-radiation environment of Tory II-A. This actuation system features radiation-tolerant electrohydraulic components: actuators, servo-valves, solenoid valves, feedback transducers, accumulators and associated hydraulic components. To provide high reliability against undesired shutdowns while carrying out high power level transients, the Tory II-A control philosophy includes a new concept in reactor safety: reliance on a nonlocking, fast-reset safety system during accident situations. The fast-reset system acts so as to hold the programmed power level rather than initiating an irreversible \"scram\" action. A reactor \"scram,\" if tolerated, could produce thermal shocks which would seriously damage the core components."
"The meaning of the terms process identification, adaptive and optimalizing control is indicated. The basic difference between these types of control and the ordinary ones is the need for a \"learning process\". Using multiplication plus integration as the simplest possible type of \"learning\", simple schemes are obtained in which sinusoidals or random fluctuations may be used as test signals. A more detailed study and an analog simulation have been made of such an optimalizing system. This one is free from the defects of formerly proposed systems, i.e.: - the detrimental effects of system dynamics on the optimalizing control action, - the loop gain changes and even instability of the optimalizing control loop when the process dynamics change with time. This has been achieved by introducing a model of the process dynamics, the parameter(s) of which are controlled by an identifying-control loop. A typical value for the convergence speed towards the optimum of the optimalizing control can be given as follows: using a sinusoidal test signal, the transient for a step-disturbance is approximately of the form\\epsilon^{-t/\\tau}where the value of τ corresponds with three periods of the test signal used. Although the system is nonlinear and time varying, some analytical results have been obtained which check the computer results. The ideas presented can be extended to more-dimensional optimalization and more-parameter identification."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method involving root-locus techniques is developed by which one can analyze transient responses by ascertaining bounds on them. In particular, the following questions are considered: 1) Given a rational system functionW(s), can another rationalM(s)(of simpler form) be constructed such that, for sufficiently large values of the constant multiplierBofM(s), the corresponding transient responses satisfy the condition,m(t) \\geq w(t)? 2)If so, can a range of values forBbe determined for which the same condition holds? Necessary conditions for an affirmative answer to question 1) are first developed and then sufficient conditions are obtained. Then, a general method using root-locus techniques is developed for answering question 2). Certain special cases are studied in detail and necessary and sufficient conditions are obtained, thus leading to the best possible bound for the given form ofM(s). Finally, a number of examples are given."
"The second method of Lyapunov is used to validate Aizerman's conjecture for the class of third-order nonlinear control systems described by the following differential equation:\\tdot{e} + a_{2}\\ddot{e} + a_{1}\\dot{e} + a_{0}e + f(e)=0In this case, the stability of the nonlinear system may be inferred by considering an associated linear system in which the nonlinear functionf(e)is replaced byke. If the linear system is asymptotically stable fork_{1} < k < k_{2}, then the nonlinear system will be asymptotically stable in-the-large for anyf(e)for whichk_{1} < \\frac{f(e)}{e} < k_{2}.The Lyapunov function used to prove this result is determined in a straightforward manner by considering the physical behavior of the system at the extreme points of the allowable range ofk."
"A single-loop design is basic for a two-degree-of-freedom plant, and it is theoretically able to achieve any desired insensitivity to plant variations or rejection of disturbances, if the plant is minimum-phase. In exacting feedback problems where the parameter variations or disturbances are large, the resulting single-loop transmission may require a larger gain and bandwidth than that of the plant. The added feedback compensation networks then have rising frequency characteristics and make the system very sensitive to HF noise in the feedback path. It is shown how a multiple-loop design permits the attainment of the same benefits of feedback, but with considerably less sensitivity to the HF noise. The basic problem is how to divide up the feedback burden most efficiently among the various loop transmission functions. Detailed procedures for this purpose are presented in the paper. The treatment is restricted to cascade-type plants."
"A simple servosystem is described which yields an improvement equivalent to a factor of 2 in the open-loop gain and 6db in the signal-to-noise ratio."
"The Tsypkin locus is used to test necessary conditions for the symmetric periodic oscillation of relay feedback systems. The conditions as stated in the literature limit the applicability of the locus to systems whose linear part has at least two more poles than zeros. This communication derives the modification required of the Tsypkin locus in order that it be applicable to systems having only at least as many poles as zeros."
"A technique which is a modification of the model-reference method of adaptive control is developed to handle high-order systems. The transfer function of the model is the inverse of the desired transfer function of the closed-loop system insofar as it is practically realizable. Proper operation is obtained by adjusting the system until the poles of the closed-loop system are canceled by the zeros of the model. Special filters are designed to aid in the detection of this cancellation. They have a narrow pulse for an impulse response and the dispersion of this pulse is used as the measure of error when an impulse is applied to the system. The criterion used for the design of the filter is that its impulse response should have a minimum second moment about the time of the maximum. The technique is applied to a fourth-order pitch-rate control system and the results of the computer simulation are given."
"The paper suggests a method for applying dynamic programming techniques to the design of optimal control programs. A step-by-step description of the method is given as it was applied to the problem of determining an optimal startup sequence for a satellite power plant. In the present case the criterion of optimality is the amount of auxiliary energy required for the startup of the power plant in orbit. A phase space is defined in terms of pertinent power plant variables; the solution is then obtained by treating the problem as aaN-stage decision problem consisting of selecting a sequence of phase space points such that the path so traced between the point representing the initial state of the plant and the point representing the final, operating state satisfies the criterion of optimality. Numerical calculations were performed with the aid of the digital code described in the Appendix. The results of this parametric study indicate possible energy savings up to 25 per cent. The paper is self-contained in the sense that very little if any contact with reactor technology or dynamic programming is required by the reader."
"A review of the basic approaches to the artificial hand design is given. The importance of new ideas in this field using progress in automatic control theory is stressed. The most importemt feature of the new hand is the two level control. The movements of the hand can be controlled by signals produced by man as well as by external stimuli. For this purpose simple pressure sensitive transducers are placed in the hand to provide the control signals for reflexive-type movements. An adaptive control circuit is present for automatic weight adjustment. All these features are incorporated into the hand using simple and standard servocomponents. Use of appropriate feedback loops eliminates the need for complicated mechanical parts."
"An approach to adaptive control system design which does not involve a direct measurement or identification of the variable process parameters is investigated. Convergence-time relationships and sufficient conditions for system stability are developed when the process is characterized by a variable gain or variable time-constant, and fixed dynamics of any order. The adaptive capability is achieved by employing a model as a reference element and by means of appropriate adaptive circuitry. The adaptive circuitry is simple, easily instrumented, and does not require successive differentiations; the primary function of the adaptive circuitry is one of integration."
"In digital computations, errors resulting from sampling and amplitude quantization (round off) are unavoidable. This work evaluates the mean-square error caused by sampling and quantization at the output of a linear network which contains a single quantizer. A detailed answer is given to the question, \"Given quantized samples of a signal which is a sample function of a random process, what is the optimum linear filter for recovering the signal from its samples?\" This filter is determined and its characteristics are summarized graphically for a specific example. A comparison with the conventional hold circuit shows that the optimum filter is much better if high accuracy is required and quantization is coarse. The difference in performance between the two filters is small when the accuracy requirement is low and the quantization is fine. Also included as Appendix V is a survey of the general quantization errors problem, as it appears in the areas of digital computation and numerical analysis, and a study of multiquantizer networks. It is found that extension of the method to networks which contain more than one quantizer is impractical, if not impossible."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A graphical technique is presented for determining the closed loop response of nonlinear control systems driven by sinusoidal inputs. The nonlinear portion of the system is represented by its conventional describing function, which may be frequency dependent as well as amplitude dependent. The linear portion of the system is represented by its complex frequency response functionG(j\\omega). A transparent overlay is used to mechanize a functional transformation similar to that performed by a Nichols chart, allowing rapid determination of the system output for sinusoidal inputs. The accuracy of the method is limited by the accuracy of the describing function approximation. In addition to offering a rapid solution to what has been regarded as a time consuming problem, the method gives the designer sufficient insight into the behavior of the system to allow the intelligent choice of compensating networks to improve system performance. A numerical example is used as a vehicle for discussion of compensation, and experimental results are presented to verify the analysis."
"The present paper shows that the concept of component timesharing is applicable to certain types of control systems. A model in which a group of components is commutated sequentially around several control loops is presented. Two mathematical procedures, borrowed from known sampled data and state-space techniques, permit the detailed analysis of the resulting linear system. It is seen that timesharing creates cross coupling or interaction between control loops which are independent except for the shared component. There is no cross coupling in the steady state if each loop contains at least one integrator. It is concluded that timesharing is an economic proposition in which possible savings in equipment cost are balanced out against reduced system performance."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Performance measures are described which realistically reflect both noise-reduction and maneuver-following capability of a radar track-while-scan (TWS) system. Illustrations are given which compare various smoothing equations on the basis of this performance measure. Finally, a set of position-and-velocity tracking equations is synthesized by a calculus-of-variations technique. The synthesized set is optimum for both position and velocity tracking within the given performance sense, in the class of all fixed parameter, linear tracking equations. The resulting optimally synthesized set characterizes the commonly termed \"\\alpha-\\beta\" tracker, with the important proviso that\\beta=\\alpha^{2}/(2 - \\alpha)."
"A new class of sampled data controls for time-varying dynamic processes is developed and investigated. The notions of interval control, prediction and synthesis of the optimum control variable by a linear combination of orthonormal polynomials in time t are introduced and applied in the optimization of a modified least-squares integral index of performance. Minimization of the index of performance leads to a family of control laws which specify the controller synthesis. The resulting control configuration is optimum on a \"per interval\" basis and is readily realized with available physical components. The design circumvents the complex computational problems associated with the usual calculus of variations and dynamic programming approaches. All controller operations are performed in real time using analog components, and sampling and reset circuits. Controller design is discussed in terms of the available parameters: the relative weighting of system error and control effort, the control interval length, and the degree of the polynomial sum approximation of the control variable. A method of obtaining an engineering estimate of the latter quantity is developed and illustrated by an example. An analog simulation of the control of a second-order dynamic process whose parameter varies in such a manner that the process is unstable at one extremum and heavily damped at the other is presented. Experiments are performed to measure the quality of steady-state control and the transient response of the control scheme."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A two-parameter adaptive control system employing multiple models and model-parameter perturbation is proposed in this paper. Theoretical studies of this system have shown that it is self-adaptive when both the input signal and the parameters of the system vary unpredictably. It is shown that the two parameters of the feedback system are adjusted automatically along the path of steepest descent of the performance measure-parameters surface. An interesting feature of this system is that the perturbation signals do not appear at the output of the controlled system."
"A detailed analysis of a particular adaptive filter has been carried out and the required extension of the theory to the general case is indicated. The filter measures the spectral densities of the input signal and noise processes and adjusts its band-pass to give optimal filtering in the Wiener sense. The behavior is examined in the linear approximation and a crude treatment of the nonlinear transient response is given. These results compare favorably with an analog simulation."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper describes a method by which the class of nonlinear processes with switched two-level inputs and finite settling times can be identified and an adaptive model of the process constructed. The adaptive model uses only the process input-output records. After a suitable identification time (approximately 14-70 times the settling time of the process) the model approximates the plant performance using a mean square error criteria and tracks any changes in the plant parameters. The past of the two-level input is stored in a digital shift register tapped atnpoints, thus forming a function space comprised of 2nnonoverlapping or orthogonal cells. By averaging the output wave-form during the time that a cell is occupied a coefficient is obtained which characterizes the output for that input condition. A basic assumption about the input waveform statistics reduces the number of characterizing coefficients from 1024 to approximately 50. The model that is evolved is a small synchronous digital computer. The model is quite versatile as it is independent of the type of process nonlinearity and can adapt to systems with different settling times. The model is ideal for use in predictive adaptive control systems where a fast time predictive model is utilized."
"The basis of the work described in this paper is the use of the moments of the error signal resulting from a unit step input to a feedback system for the detection of changes in the characteristics of the plant. Expressions for the moments of the error in terms of moments of the input-error transfer function of the system are developed first. Then, from the relationship of the moments of the input-error transfer function to the parameters in the transfer functions of the various components of the system, a solution is obtained for those values of the adjustable parameters of an adaptive compensator that will reduce the first several moments of the error function to zero. An example is presented next, to illustrate the procedure for designing an adaptive system by the proposed method, and experimental results obtained from a system so designed are introduced to demonstrate the effectiveness of the adaptation obtainable by the use of this approach. Finally, it is concluded that the method proposed loses somewhat in effectiveness if the impulse response of the plant becomes highly oscillatory but that it has the advantage that the degree of the differential equation describing the plant need not be known."
"The problem considered in this paper is to find an explicit stability gain sector for a class of autonomous discrete control systems containing a nonlinear gain element. A quadratic form Lyapunov function is assumed and the Aizerman technique [1] is used to find such a stability sector. A method to select the quadratic Lyapunov function to maximize the width of the sector is suggested."
"This paper describes a reaction jet attitude control technique which affords significant advantages in terms of accuracy, reliability, fuel economy and operational flexibility. These advantages are realized by the use, in combination, of low-thrust vapor jets and time-dependent on-off switching circuits. An accuracy potential comparable to inertia wheel control is thus provided, while the proverbial wheel problems of speed saturation, bearing life, threshold nonlinearities, gyroscopic coupling and vibration excitation are avoided. Very-low thrust magnitudes are attained by simply opening a small orifice to allow fuel to vaporize into the surrounding vacuum. Fuel storage, pressurization, circulation and mixing requirements are thus minimized. By augmenting conventional on-off valve switching circuitry with electronic networks that generate thrust pulses of small but constant time duration, vehicle angular rate can be controlled to a very-low threshold. This minimizes fuel consumption and valve cycling frequency. The capabilities and limitations of this design approach were substantiated by an analog computer program incorporating breadboard switching circuits, and by vacuum chamber testing of critical components. These technique and component developments are applicable to such space missions as astronomical observation, earth reconnaissance and stellar navigation. Design guides are presented for synthesizing a reaction jet system to meet any particular set of performance specifications."
"An algorithm based on the concept of state and dynamic programming is derived for designing an optimum controller for a linear plant subject to noise. The controller is optimal in the sense that the behavior of the plant satisfies the expected mean quadratic performance index (EMQPI) defined in the paper. The algorithm generates the sequence of control signals which minimize the EMQPI. In addition, it gives the minimum of the EMQPI for the specified sequence of control signals. The control signal is found to consist of two components: 1) a linear combination of the system state variables, and 2) a noise-balance component which minimizes the noise-induced deviation of the actual plant output from the desired output. An example is given to illustrate the iterative procedure and the asymptotic behavior of the algorithm. The design is optimal for a class of system inputs, and is applicable to both sampling and continuous systems. The design procedure is developed to make full use of a digital computer. The basic principles of dynamic programming to the treatment of stochastic control processes are clearly illustrated in an introductory form so that it will be of interest to control engineers who may wish to familiarize themselves with dynamic programming techniques."
"A guidance concept employing properties of optimal flight paths is developed on the basis of Jacobi's accessory minimum problem for the second variation. The analysis is equivalent to construction of a field of extremals in the neighborhood of a predetermined extremal serving as a \"nominal\" trajectory. In the absence of inequality constraints on the control variables, a linear terminal control scheme with time-varying gains is realized. The addition of inequality constraints leads to nonlinear control behavior. Certain propulsion system parameters are characterized as state variables as a convenient means for providing adaptive behavior in respect to in-flight changes in propulsion system performance. An application is given to an intercept problem sufficiently simple to allow analytical solution, and some numerical results comparing optimal and approximately optimal guidance in their effects on flight performance are presented. Treatment of a certain type of problem arising in rocket applications is discussed."
"At the Boulder Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards we have been engaged in research in the millimeter wavelength region of the electromagnetic spectrum for several years. Under the direction of Dr. W. Culshaw, the Fabry-Perot interferometer was adapted for use at these wavelengths. Using a plane parallel mirror Fabry-Perot interferometer a precision study of several dielectrics was undertaken at a wavelength of 6 mm. At these wavelengths we have found that diffraction losses become significant when the mirror separation is comparable to the mirror dimensions. Following the suggestion of Fox and Li, we decided to make use of confocal mirrors in the Fabry-Perot interferometer in order to reduce diffraction losses and allow increased separation of the mirrors and consequent increased Q of the resonant structure."
"Advances in cryogenic engineering have made low temperature electronics feasible. A number of devices have operated successfully in cryogenic environments with considerable improvement in their characteristics."
"An electric field controlled ferroelectric phase shifter has been developed which provides a differential phase shift of approximately 100/spl deg/ per centimeter at a frequency of 200 Mc /s. The attenuation varies from 1.1 to 1.5 db per centimeter. The phase shifter, shown in figure1, was constructed in dielectric loaded parallel plane waveguide in which the dominant TE/sub10/ surface wave mode is excited. This transmission line is inherently suited to the construction of devices requiring control by a uniform electric field. As shown in figure 1, the surface wave is launched onto and collected from the ferroelectric loaded line by means of a coaxial line feeding through the upper plate. The center conductor traverses the space between the parallel plates and contacts the lower plate. Prior analysis 2 has shown that this method of surface wave launching is extremely efficient and broadbanded when the dielectric constant (K) of the dielectric slab is very high. In addition it has been found that if the dielectric constant is very high, as it is in the case of ferroelectric materials (K>1000), then the launching efficiency is independent of the dielectric constant. Thus changes in the dielectric constant due to electric field and temperature changes do not affect the launching efficiency. It has been analytically and experimentally determined that the impedance of the ferroelectric loaded parallel plane waveguide is very low compared to the impedance of the unloaded parallel plane regions beyond the extremities of the ferroelectric slab. Hence, very little power radiates from the ends of the slab."
"The magneto-ionic theory shows that for plane wave propagation along the direction of the magnetic field in a magnetoplasma a mode of propagation exists when the frequency of the wave is smaller than the electron gyrofrequency of the medium. Electromagnetic waves will propagate in this mode regardless of the magnitude of the plasma frequency. It requires only that the collision frequency of the electrons in the plasma be sufficiently small so that collision damping does not excessively attenuate the waves. This mode of propagation has been used to explain very low frequency \"whistles\" associated with lightning discharges and very low frequency emissions in the earth's exosphere. It has been called the \"whistler mode\" by ionosphere physicists. For propagation in the whistler mode, a dense plasma has a large refractive index, is highly dispersive, and is highly anisotropic. In this paper experiments are described which attempted to use the properties of this mode of propagation as a diagnostic tool in the hot plasma of the magnetic field stabilized pinch discharges in ZETA. The ZETA discharge tube is of toroidal shape with a 1-meter bore and a 3-meter mean diameter. Because of its large size, plane wave propagation through the plasma was considered to be feasible, and hence, the whistler mode theory applicable to the experiment."
"A new indirect method for measuring the absolute field strength at the boundaries of microwave resonators has been developed. The difference between the new method and the other indirect methods (originally developed by Hansen and Slater), is that while all the other methods are based on the perturbation of the mode-field in the resonator, the new method is based on the perturbation of the radiation-field."
"The usual power loss method of evaluating the damping constant of cavities and the attenuation constant of waveguides, as caused by finite wall conductivity, breaks down in the case of degenerate modes and fails to predict the coupling between degenerate modes. Papadopoulos has treated the problem by means of a perturbation method involving an expansion of the fields in terms of the modes for the ideal cavity or waveguide. In this paper a variational formulation is presented that permits the eigenvalues for the lossy case to be readily computed. This formulation turns out to be a simple extension of the usual power loss method and in addition to giving the damping constant it also shows that there is an equal shift, in the resonant frequency in the case of a cavity, and in the phase constant for a waveguide. In addition the coupling between the degenerate modes is obtained. Furthermore it is shown that the new non-degenerate sets of coupled modes form an orthogonal set. The above properties all arise from the characteristics of the matrix eigenvalue problem which arises when the Rayleigh-Ritz technique is used in conjunction with the variational formulation of the boundary value problem."
"Perturbation theorems. - Our perturbation theorems are stated in the context of a theory of waveguide junctions. A waveguide junction is a linear electromagnetic system possessing ideal waveguide leads and is subject to excitation only through nonattenuated modes in these leads. The domain of the electromagnetic field is the finite region V; the surface S, the complete boundary of V, consists of a part S/sub o/, coinciding with a perfectly conducting surface, and the parts S/sub 1/, S/sub 2/, . . . , S/sub n/ , where S/sub m/ is the terminal surface in the mth of the n waveguide leads."
"The magnitude of the reflection coefficient of a simulated joint between a rectangular waveguide having a cross-section with sharp inside corners and one with rounded corners was determined both experimentally and theoretically,"
"In a recent paper the electromagnetic diffraction by a perfectly conducting circular disk was calculated. The induced surface current density was obtained as a power series in (ka), with k =2/spl pi/ / /spl lambda/=wave number and a = disk radius . These results are now used to calculate the diffraction by a planar rectangular array of disks. Problems of this sort are important in the studies of artificial dielectrics where the molecular dipoles of real dielectrics are replaced by conductors distributed regularly or at random in a supporting medium. For many cases, good approximate solutions have been found usually for conductors with dimensions very small compared to the wavelength or for some very simple geometrical configurations. The case of an array of disks has been the object of early investigations. In a first approximation, the disks are replaced by the induced electric and magnetic dipole moments which Bethe obtained during his studies of the diffraction by small holes. Later, the so-called static interaction, where phase differences between the oscillating dipoles are neglected, was taken into account."
"As ferrimagnetic materials having lower and lower intrinsic losses have become available, it has become feasible to build microwave devices in which small ellipsoidal samples are placed in uniform propagating structures. In many such applications, the sample, although small physically, presents a large electrical discontinuity, so that the usual perturbation procedures are no longer adequate to describe the interaction between the sample and the microwave circuit, and a more complete analysis must be made."
"The filters discussed in this paper consist of arrays of TEM-mode transmission line resonators between parallel ground planes. Each resonator line is a quarter-wavelength long at mid-band and is short-circuited at one end and open-circuited at the other--the resonator elements being arranged in a parallel array with the positions of the short-circuited ends alternating. Figure 1 shows a strip-line interdigital filter with its upper ground plane removed."
"In most microwave systems the signal frequency has to be transmitted and guided from one place to another with the minimum of attenuation, while guarding against unwanted frequencies by keeping them out with bandpass filters, which pass only the signal frequency. While the common types of bandpass filters do an adequate job for most applications, they suffer from some disadvantages in particular situations. It may, for instance, happen that some one interfering frequency is particularly strong and special measures have to be taken to suppress it; or that a limited number of frequencies are being generated in a frequency generator system, but these frequencies have to be kept apart and pure. In those cases, a bandpass filter, which discriminates against all frequencies outside the passband, will not be as efficient as one or more bands top filters which discriminate especially against the strongest unwanted frequencies,"
"This investigation was the result of a program to suppress the harmonic frequency output from high-power transmitters without causing undue reflection of the attenuated frequencies. The attenuation is produced by a rejection filter (which took the form of a waveguide, lowpass, \"waffle-iron\" filter). To protect the transmitter, a \"harmonic pad\" is placed between it and the rejection filter to absorb most of the power in the reflected harmonics (in this case, up to the tenth harmonic), while introducing negligible insertion loss in the transmitter fundamental band."
"A new type of tunable band pass microwave filter using the dipole resonance of a plasma column has been investigated. The center frequency of the pass band can be electronically tuned over a large portion of the S band. Over this range the insertion loss at the center frequency is less than 2 db and the isolation for frequencies outside the pass band is at least 12 db. The typical 3 db bandwidth of the filter is 150 Mc/s at S band."
"A new and simple technique is described for measuring the total power flow in an overmoded waveguide. A problem arises when measuring spurious emissions of microwave transmitters and low-loss transmission in the millimeter and submillimeter regions. In many instances, the power is split between two and ten modes. Conventional power-measuring devices are based on one propagating mode. By converting the overmoded wave to an approximate plane wave, the total power flow in an overmoded waveguide can be determined by averaging the squared magnitudes of electric field along the waveguide perimeter. The electric field is sampled by a set of fixed probes. Unlike an earlier fixed-probe technique, this technique does not require a digital computer to reduce the data and can operate at higher peak-power levels. It is applicable to all uniform transmission lines. However, this paper discusses in detail only the rectangular waveguide."
"The use of high power harmonic suppressors, or low-pass filters , is becoming an accepted technique in the microwave state-of-the-art. Such filters are required to absorb spurious frequencies generated by high power microwave sources. Radiation of such frequencies may cause serious interference problems with neighboring RADAR equipment. It is further desired that these harmonic frequencies not only be prevented from reaching the antenna, but should also be terminated resistively to prevent multiple reflections between the rejection filter and the microwave source."
"Materials for high power attenuator or matched load applications should present a wave impedance of several hundred ohms for maximum absorption and at the same time should be capable of large heat dissipation. These requirements are generally mutually exclusive, since for conductors thermal conductivity is proportional to electrical conductivity. One way to circumvent this is to use an anisotropic material which can conduct heat easily in the direction perpendicular to the electric field orientation,"
"In the design, construction, and evaluation of high power microwave amplifiers and their associated transmitter systems, a high degree of emphasis is currently being placed on the development of microwave amplifier systems which can amplify complex microwave pulse spectra without introducing noise or spurious modulation into the spectrum. In the usual microwave pulse spectrum, the energy as a function of frequency takes the familiar Sin x/x distribution as shown in Figure 1."
"There is an increasing need for precise, accurate, and reliable noise measurements especially with the advent of parametric amplifiers (abbreviated as paramps) and other low noise devices. Important applications of such devices, primarily due to their extreme sensitivity to low level signals, are in deep space probe, RADAR, and communication systems."
"A point-by-point millimeter wave loss and delay measurement system has been built which combines large dynamic range with high accuracy. Up to 80 db loss and 100 nanoseconds envelope delay can be measured in the 50-60 Gc/s range. The accuracy for 0-40 db loss measurements is /spl plusmn/0.05 db, while beyond that accuracy is progressively diminished to /spl plusmn/0.8 db at 80 db. Delay accuracy for low loss devices (0-20 db) is /spl plusmn/0.2 /spl mu/sec over the entire 100 /spl mu/sec range. High accuracy and large range are attained with a substitution heterodyne measurement scheme using rapid RF and IF comparison switching along with calibrated IF loss and delay standards. In addition, high gain, narrow band, IF amplification and differential null detection is employed. Both measurement functions are incorporated into one system with manual waveguide switching and preset IF programs to facilitate conversion from loss to delay."
"This paper presents a circuit for measuring relative phase between two microwave signals of the same frequency. The principle of phase comparison described presents no ambiguities throughout 360 degrees and is independent of relative signal amplitudes. There are no moving parts or variable phase shifters. Phase angle can be indicated automatically and instantaneously."
"DC transport properties (e. g. , conductivity, Hall effect, magneto-conductivity) are proportional to various averages of the electron-lattice relaxation time ( <T> , <T/sup 2/> , <T/sup 3/> , etc.) and hence give indirect information about the scattering mechanisms affecting the conduction process. With microwaves, the observation frequency can frequently be of the order of the scattering frequency 1/(2/spl pi <T> ). Under these conditions, microwave transport properties are complex and contain potentially more information concerning detailed scattering mechanisms than the analogous dc properties."
"An isolator and a variable attenuator having flat responses over the 50 to 60 Gc/s band were reported at the 1961 PGMTT Symposium. These devices utilized a broadband Faraday rotator which consisted of a solid rod of ferrite of sufficient diameter to function as a dielectric waveguide with characteristics approximating those of an infinite ferrite. Further development of this type of device has produced isolators with significant improvements in bandwidth and loss characteristics and a three-port circulator with broadband characteristics similar to the isolator. The characteristics of the isolator as functions of power and temperature have been studied in order to determine the limitations on the isolator's use."
"An investigation of waveguide phase shifting techniques was conducted recently for the purpose of establishing the design criteria of a device capable of meeting the following electrical specifications: a phase shift variable over minimum range of 360/spl deg/ and a maximum phase slope (or deviation) of 5/spl deg/ at any phase setting over at least a 10 per cent frequency band width. Mechanical simplicity, low insertion loss, rugged construction and small size are also essential characteristics."
"In many microwave systems there is need for a fast-acting switch which has negligible insertion loss in its \"On\" condition and substantial attenuation in its \"Off\" condition. Ferrite switches can in general be made fast-acting by thinning waveguide walls to a few skin depths, using low inductance coils and applying pulse circuitry techniques. Switches in rectangular or circular waveguide have been either of the Faraday rotation or the waveguide-beyond-cutoff variety. Some coaxial or stripline structures have been described which show interesting properties. Early work at Bell Telephone Laboratories on ferrite loaded coaxial lines indicated that large amounts of attenuation could be obtained with axial magnetic fields. The high attenuation is the result of a cutoff condition in the ferrite loaded line, and/or ferromagnetic resonance in the ferrite. The applied field may be switched to bring the line into a propagating and low loss condition."
"The varactor diode, due to its voltage dependent capacity, exhibits a nonlinearity in impedance with changes in RF power level. This change in impedance is sufficient to provide switching action. In addition to this switching action, the varactor junction has an erg burn out level on the order of a thousand times that of a mixer diode. Because of these two properties, the varactor is very applicable in solid state duplexers and limiters for mixer diode protection."
"To date diode limiters are either parametric frequent devices or simply diodes shunting a transmission line. The parametric limiters are narrow band because they must be made using cavities. Future techniques might improve their bandwidth but it is felt that in the limit their bandwidth would approach that of the techniques discussed here. The derivation of the bandwidth of a limiter consisting of diodes shunting a TEM transmission line is similar to the derivation of the bandwidth of a series diode switch. The attenuation a of an admittance G + jB shunting a transmission line of characteristic admittance Y/sub o/ is given by the equation."
"In the usual microwave limiter the presence of a large signal above a certain threshold power level produces a change in gain or attenuation of the device so that the output power level of this signal remains approximately constant as the input level is varied. This characteristic is desirable in many applications to provide crystal burnout protection in a receiver, act as a power leveler, etc. When more than one signal is present, however, such a limiter will have the undesirable property of increasing the attenuation of a small signal which is also within the passband of the limiter. Thus, while a receiver may be protected from permanent damage by such a limiter, it would be rendered inoperative whenever a strong signal is present."
"It is now possible to design a class of low level, milliwatt range ferrimagnetic microwave limiters which exhibit distinctive characteristics and important advantages over previously reported ferrimagnetic limiters. The limiter characteristically consists of a microwave transmission cavity containing as a nonlinear element a large single crystal spherical sample of yttrium iron garnet (YIG) biased to the subsidiary absorption by a dc magnetic field perpendicular to the rf magnetic field. Garnet losses increase with power above the subsidiary absorption threshold and result in a nonlinear decline in cavity Q which limits the output power. Large filling factors are needed for a significant limiting range and the large YIG single crystals now available make this limiter practical. At a given frequency the limiting threshold can be varied with the bias magnetic field, in contrast to gyromagnetic coupler limiters."
"Passive Microwave power limiters that use narrow linewidth ferrimagnetic materials such as YIG and gallium-substituted YIG operating in the coincidence region have been previously reported. However, these limiters have been restricted to operating in the L- and S-band ranges because of the low ferrite saturation magnetization (4/spl pi/M/sub s/ ). Recently, monocrystal lithium ferrite having a 4/spl pi/M/sub s/of 3900 and exhibiting relatively narrow line-width properties has become available. We have used this material in the development of a coincidence power limiter that operates in the 6500-Mc/s frequency range. (Independent work on coincidence limiting using lithium at 5200 Mc /s, has recently been reported by Rossol."
"A new concept in the field of parametric amplifiers has been evolved which provides significant increase in the gain-bandwidth product and stability of such devices . The concept involves the use of two independent pump sources of different frequencies. In this paper, the basic idea of multiple pumping is described and the analysis of double pumped parametric amplifiers is given. The experimental results obtained with such devices at VHF and microwave frequencies are reported."
"A criterion has been found for developing broadband parametric amplifiers of either reflection or upconverter type which are capable of large bandwidths with a minimum of external circuitry. The method to be described depends on the maximum utilization of the parasitic elements (R/sub s/, L, C/sub o/, C/sub c/) of the varactor diode itself, plus certain simple experimental techniques which are easily applied. To illustrate the power of this method, a reflection type parametric amplifier has been developed with the following characteristics:"
"Parametric amplifiers, in common with many other non-linear devices, exhibit peculiar and perhaps useful properties when operated at high signal levels. For example, abrupt switching between various modes of operation is sometimes observed, and simultaneous oscillation at two different frequencies may occur under certain conditions. A satisfactory quantitative description of many of these phenomena is obtainable through the use of the simplified circuit model shown in Figure 1."
"The developement of the phased array RADAR has generated the requirement for a simple, inexpensive, low noise preamplifier which will have at least a 12 percent 1 db bandwidth, less than a 4db noise figure and which will phase and amplitude track over the pass-band."
"This paper examines the characteristics of several types of proposed masers to see what characteristics they can be expected to have in the region between one and a tenth millimeter. In particular, estimates are given for the maximum power output and efficiency of a number of maser systems operating as oscillators or power sources. Additionally, the expected noise temperature for maser systems in this frequency region are compared with those at lower frequencies."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The interaction between solid state research and microwaves has been a mutually beneficial one. The current developments in this marriage between these fields is opening new vistas for the microwave scientist in the millimeter and submillimeter regions as well. However, important innovations in the microwave region are taking place also in the form of acoustical excitation in solids. Applications are already on the horizon. Microwave resonance techniques have been extended into the millimeter region. Cyclotron, antiferromagnetic, and ferrimagnetic resonance in new materials are providing selective sensitive detectors and nonreciprocal devices. With the advent of superconducting magnets, resonance and related applications can now be usefully extended into the millimeter and submillimeter regions of the spectrum. But perhaps the most exciting prospect to physicists and engineers is that to be brought about by the advent of the optical maser. With the discovery of nonlinear phenomena in insulators and solid state plasmas the coherent spectrum is now to be extended in a practical way from the millimeter through the infrared to the optical region. The microwave engineer and the solid state physicist can peer together with great anticipation into this crystal ball and dream of things to come. Potential tools for research and for the development of new devices will be outlined."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The present state of the art will be described and the importance of coherence discussed. It appears possible that coherent light will prove useful in communication systems. The role of the microwave engineer in the future development of this field will be suggested."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the face of rapid strides in microwave technology it is appropriate to review from time to time the part played by these Transactions. Through an understanding of what the Transactions On Microwave Theory And Techniques can and should do, we may make better use of what we now have, and improve it in the future as well. What, then, do we aim for in our six issues each year?"
"An X-band ruby traveling-wave maser (TWM) has been constructed and tested in which the RF structure is a double-ridge ladder line and the signal is coupled into and out of the structure with coaxial lines. The pump power is propagated in a waveguide mode and the device is operated at and below liquid helium temperatures. A four-inch electromagnet was used. The TWM was operated at the push-pull point with a pump frequency of 24 Gc and a signal frequency of approximately 9.65 Gc; the magnetic field was 4.1 kilogauss. Electronic gains of 15 db have been obtained and bandwidths as high as 130 Mc were observed. Reduced structure losses and longer sections of ruby promise a G/sup 1/2/B of 1100 Mc (30 db over 35 Mc)."
"The electric and magnetic eigenvectors for cavities containing media with tensor characteristics are examined, and explicit formulas for the electric and magnetic fields are obtained in terms of volume and boundary sources."
"An unknown load impedance terminating a lossy two-port junction can be calculated if the input impedance and junction parameters are known. It is to be shown that there exists a linear relationship, dependent upon two calibration constants, between the input reflection coefficient and a modified reflection coefficient of the load. Applying the linear transformation to the junction input impedance permits evaluation of the unknown load impedance. Calibration is accomplished by terminating the transmission line in at least three different reactance and measuring the corresponding input reflection coefficients. These data plot into the usual circular configuration on a Smith chart from which the necessary calibration data is obtained. When several load reactances are used, the calibration accuracy can be considerably increased, since the averaging advantage of plotting a mean straight line is utilized. Furthermore, once the junction has been calibrated, its equivalent T-network impedances and scattering coefficients may be found."
"This paper presents criteria for designing nonreciprocal coupled-wave devices which may be used as isolators, circulators and duplexers. An experimental model of such a device was designed and tested over a 6 per cent frequency band centered at 35 kMc, and the obtained data are in good agreement with the theory. Such devices should have numerous applications as they offer the capability of operating under extremely high power levels, and are not restricted to dominant mode operation."
"The Wiener-Hopf tectilque is used to obtain an exact solution to a two-dimensional scattering problem. In the problem solved, an incident TE/sub 10/ mode, traveling from z= -/spl infin/ in the positive z direction, is confined by infinite bounding planes; these planes have infinite conductivity for z<0 and an impedance Z/sub 1/, for z>0. The scattering from the junction at z=0 gives rise to reflection and transmission coefficients that are exactly determined. An approximate solution for the reflection coefficients is also given when the TE/sub 10/ mode is incident from the opposite direction. Finally, a table is presented which lists some transmission and reflection coefficients for rectangular and circular waveguides with discontinuities in the wall impedances."
"This paper is concerned with group and energy velocity in a cylindrical guide periodically loaded with dielectric disks. For a TM wave a confluence may be obtained between the first and second pass band of such a structure by arranging that the characteristic impedances of the air and dielectric regions are equal when the phase change per section is /spl pi/. It was at first thought that, since the impedances are equal, there would be no reflections from the interfaces. Assuming only forward waves, however, the equivalence of group and energy velocity is violated. The detailed analysis presented here shows that, mathematically, infinitely many solutions for the field pattern at the matched /spl pi/ mode are possible but that only one of these has physical significance. For this one pattern the group and energy velocities are equal."
"This paper deals with a new hybrid circuit for signal branching or combining in parallel push-pull amplifiers. The purpose of the new hybrid circuit is to perform the branching or combining of two pairs of signals for parallel push-pull operation, each consisting of two oppositely phased, balanced signals. The advantage of combining two pairs of parallel push-pull signals by a single component of new hybrid circuit is clear; one would require a multiplicity of conventional rat-race circuits to do the same job, inasmuch as the basic rat-race circuit is limited to only one pair of push-pull signals. The new hybrid circuit is further elaborated to improve the performance for combining unbalanced push-pull signals by: (1) showing that the combination of unbalanced push-pull signals is equivalent to the super-position of cophase components on the balanced antiphase components; (2) analyzing the effect of the cophase components in the hybrid circuit; and (3) devising means of improving the adverse effects of the cophase components. Finally, an evaluation is made of a parallel push-pull amplifier using the new hybrid circuit in comparison with the conventional rat-race circuits required for the same parallel push-pull operation."
"An approximate determination of the dominant-mode fields in ridge waveguides at all frequencies has been made. Evaluations of the fields along the walls of a commercially standard single-ridge guide having a usable frequency range from 3.75 to 15.0 Gc, and a commercially standard double-ridge guide having a usable frequency range from 4.7 to 11.0 Gc were carried out, and graphs drawn so that the results could be applied to practical situations. The graphs were used to design some ridge-waveguide directional couplers. Both cross-guide and broad-wall couplers were made in single-ridge waveguides and in double-ridge waveguides, using cross sections approximating those of the above commercially available ridge guides. The validity of the field graphs was demonstrated by the close correspondence between measured and predicted coupling for the cross-guide couplers, and by achieving predicted equality of coupling at the band ends for the broad-wall couplers."
"A new measurement technique is described that records the ferromagnetic saturation curve in a way that permits the Suhl critical field to be evaluated directly from the recording. This technique eliminates the tedious task of constructing point by point saturation curves for evaluating the critical field and shortens immensely the time required to determine spinwave linewidths from the saturation of the ferromagnetic resonance line."
"An analysis is given of the results of frequency doubling experiments using relatively thick ferrite slabs. The primary frequency was 9100 Mc. It is shown that the dielectric properties of the ferrite cause the double-frequency wave to behave as a surface wave. This tends to concentrate the double-frequency fields in the vicinity of the ferrite, thus increasing its interaction with the oscillating magnetic-dipole moments that generate these fields and increasing the conversion efficiency. However, the surface-wave effect also causes a phase difference between the magnetic-dipole moments and the double-frequency fields, and this limits the efficiency obtainable through this effect. Experimental data give reasonable agreement with calculated results. Spinwave effects are considered, and it is shown that they can contribute to harmonic generation if the precession orbits of their magnetization vectors are highly elliptical. The best conversion efficiency obtained in these experiments was -11.1 db at a peak input power level of 6300 W. Planar ferrites have inherent advantages over isotropic ferrites because the planar anisotropy greatly increases the ellipticity of the precession of the magnetization vectors of both the uniform mode and the spinwaves. The relatively large dielectric constant of planar ferrites is also helpful to frequency doubling"
"Curves are presented giving the even-mode fringing capacitance, the odd-mode fringing capacitance, and the difference between odd- and even-mode fringing capacitances for wide ranges of thickness and spacing of rectangular bars centered between parallel plates. Simple formulas are given relating these capacitances to even- and odd-mode characteristic impedances of coupled rectangular bars. possible applications to strip-line and other circuits are described. The appendix gives the derivation of the fringing, capacitances by conformal mapping techniques. The results are exact for bars extending in width infinitely far from the coupling region, and have only small error (less than 1.24 per cent) for bars whose width is greater than about 35 per cent of the difference between plate spacing and bar thickness."
"This paper describes a simple method of measuring the total power that is propagating at various frequencies in a multimode, rectangular waveguide. It is particularly useful for determining the power that is generated at harmonic frequencies by high-power transmitters. In this method, the amplitude of the waveguide fields at a number of frequencies is sampled at evenly spaced points around the waveguide periphery. It is shown theoretically that by averaging the squares of the sampled field amplitudes, the total multimode power at the various frequencies can be determined to within ~2 or ~5 db, depending upon which combinations of waveguide fields are measured. The theoretical accuracy is verified by measurements at both low and high powers"
"The use of dielectric loading with the ferrites in nonreciprocal transmission lines has becolme quite prevalent. The theoretical analysis of unloaded ferrite phase shifters in rectangular waveguide has been extended to the dielectrically loaded case by Soohoo. The boundary-value problem of ferrite phase shifters in dielectrically loaded coaxial lines, which possesses a transcendental equation similar to the waveguide case, has been throughly discussed by several authors. The present commumcation reports the solution of the boundary-value problem of a dielectrically loaded ferrite phase shifter in rectangular waveguide to yield values of the lossless propagation constant for various slab positions for both directions of propagation. The theoretical values of the differential phase shift for slab positions about the center of the waveguide were compared with the measured values for three different applied magnetic fields."
"The original paper of DeGrasse and subsequent publications dealing with the use of the crossed-strip gyromagnetic coupler as a limiter have been concerned with the operation of this device below 3300 Mc. At these frequencies the limiter exhibits a sharp threshold at a very low power level, in the neighborhood of -20 dbm. Fig. 1 illustrates typical flat leakage characteristics at a frequency of 2600 Mc. A single crystal YIG sphere of 26 mils was used in this limiter."
"The near future holds considerable promise for the utilization of solid-state limiters as receiver protection elements. This correspondence describes the performance of ferrimagnetic limiters in the actual role of diode protection. The peak powers involved in the tests were up to 25 kw."
"The basic traveling-wave parametric amplifier (TWPA) [1]-[3], as here defined, consists of an all-pass uniform transmissionline structure in which the distributed circuit elements are modulated in time and space by a progressive pumping wave. TWPA's, in general, have aroused great interest due to the possibilities of wide-band amplification, as predicted by coupled mode theory [2]-[4]. It is the purpose of this communication to show that temporal instabilities exists on the basic TWPA (or its dual [1]) when the frequency relations are of the negative-resistance type (the inverting modulator of manley and rowe [6]). it is found, from the exact solution for time harmonic waves existing on this line, that under these conditions waves growing in time are present, rather than waves growing in distance along the line."
"The method used to orient ferrimagnetic single-crystal spheres has been the traditional X-ray technique. It is the purpose of this article to propose an orientation method which is simple and inexpensive, and which may be carried out by the microwave engineer or technician in his own laboratory."
"The helix-coupled, coaxial, gaseous noise source poses a burnout hazard to tunnel diodes unless certain precautions are taken. The attached oscillograms illustrate the transient in question. Typical short-circuit peak currents are 300 ma. The transient is a consequence of the sudden forced transition of the helix core from a nonconducting, unionized gaseous media to that of a conducting plasma. The transient coupled to the helix is easily suppressed with a high-pass or band-pass filter, or even by adequate padding. If only a pad is used, a word of warning is in order. The pad must be of the type that attenuates video, as well as radio, frequency."
"These remarks concern the solution of the boundary value problem for the case of longitudinally magnetized ferrites between two perfectly conducting parallel planes. The above-mentioned paper by Tyras and Held treated only a very special particular case of propagation in the anisotropic media. A more general approach to the problem and a general solution will be given in this note. Throughout this note the author has kept most of the notation as in the original paper."
"The theory of operation of the tuned microwave reflectometer has been well documented in the literature and its operating characteristics have been described in great detail. According to reflectometer theory, as a short slides in the output waveguide of a tuned reflectometer a pattern of detector response vs short displacement similar to that shown in Fig. 1 will be observed. The over-all slope of the pattern is due to attenuation in the output waveguide, while the regular variations are due to the less than ideal tuning of the reflectometer. In the practical operation of a reflectometer the pattern shown in Fig. 2 can be observed. Such a pattern obviously will result in errors in the determination of the magnitude and positions of maxima and minima. It is the purpose of this note to explain this pattern and the errors it can produce and to suggest a simple remedy."
"For operation of parametric amplifiers at low frequencies and at low-impedance levels a parametric diode of very large capacitance is necessary. In general a capacitance which has an impedance of the same order as the source impedance is required, so that for a 600-ohm system at a frequency of 5 kc the static capacitance C/sub 0/ should be C/sub 0//spl tildeoverbar/ 1//spl omega//sub s/R/sub g/ /spl tildeoverbar/0.05 ~f. The capacitance variation with bias should also be large."
"A novel waveguide stop-band filter employing a four terminal hybrid circuit and two lossy cavity resonators has been developed. With this circuit, adjustable frequency sensitive loss can be accomplished with very little reflection similar to directional filter type operation. The circuit utilizes the diplexing characteristics of two adjacent ports of a standard 3-db short slot forward-wave directional coupler. Two identical cavities, each filled with lossy dielectric material, produce the necessary loss. Fig. 1 shows a schematic diagram of the device."
"With the imminent feasibility of very large electronically-scanned phased-array antennas, has come the necessity for suitable circuitry for accurately shifting phase of very many elements. A scheme, which is now receiving some attention, was described by the author in February, 1960, in a Mitre memo, which has achieved some circulation in Air Force circles. The basic idea is simple, taking advantage of the fact that the phase of the harmonic of a fundamental frequency is proportional to the harmonic number, viz., sin n/spl omega/(t + /spl tau/) = sin (n/spl omega/t + n/spl omega//spl tau/) = sin (n/spl omega/t+/spl psi/) where /spl psi/= n/spl omega//spl tau/."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A microwave single-sideband modulator has been designed utilizing two reflection types of Faraday rotation ferrite-balanced modulators. Power is fed to the two balanced modulators by means of a 3-db quadrature hybrid such that each modulator has equal incident power with a 90-degree phase difference. The output power of the balanced modulators is combined by means of a magic tee sum and difference circuit. It is shown that if the modulation signals applied to the balanced modulators are in phase quadrature, the upper sideband will appear at the output sum arm and the lower sideband will appear in the output difference arm. An analysis of the device relates the spurious and undesired sidebands to the conversion loss, and a method is proposed for minimizing carrier output. The drive power is reduced due to the use of reflection-type balanced modulators, and experimental data is presented for the modulation frequency impedance and drive power requirements. The temperature and frequency sensitivity of the undesired sidebands have also been measured. A number of applications of the device are discussed."
"The traveliig-wave parametric amplifiers reported to date are not sufficiently competitive to ensure their use in advanced RADAR systems. The major hindrance is the relatively high-RADAR noise figure which is due to the fact that the signal and idler frequencies are about equal; i.e., the amplifier is degenerate. Initial experiments directed toward obtaining a nondegenerate microwave traveling-wave parametric amplifier are reported in this paper. A promising circuit has been developed and an S-band nondegenerate amplifier has been built and tested. In the first part of the paper the circuit is described and the experimental results are given. The second part of the paper describes procedures which have proved useful in the development of the circuit and which should also prove useful in future investigations."
"A theoretical derivation is made of bandwidth as a function of resonant frequency of a single crystal ferrite resonance isolator at millimeter wavelengths. The derivation takes into account the ferrite isolator as a bounded system. Using the derived relation of bandwidth and resonant frequency, and Kittel's relation between resonant frequency and applied field, equations are derived which relate line width to resonant frequency, line width to the applied magnetic field, and line width to frequency bandwidth. These resulting equations are compared with experimental data obtained with a single crystal barium ferrite isolator from 58 to 59 kMc. The theoretical relations agreed closely with the experimental data within the accuracy of the measuring equipment at these frequencies. In general, the results showed that for small frequency ranges (1 kMc) bandwidth and line width increase almost linearly with frequency, bandwidth and line width are linearly related, and line width is a fairly complicated but increasing function of applied field."
"Microwave modulator characteristics pertinent to two state balanced modulation are discussed. An equivalence between balanced modulation and phase modulation is shown for rectangular modulation waveforms and experimental results are described. The characteristics of a tuned hybrid tee, untuned hybrid tee and novel circulator type of balanced modulator are compared. X-band measurements show that a carrier rejection of 70 db and modulator loss of 3 db can be achieved with carrier levels up to several hundred milliwatts. The carrier rejection of an untuned modulator is dependent on crystal match and data showing dependence of the match on orientation and temperature are presented."
"Several different network forms have been employed previously to characterize the symmetrical strip-line tee junction and the parameters of these networks have been obtained by various means. In this paper the available theoretical and experimental results are systematically correlated. A choice, based on design convenience, is made of the most appropriate network form, and recommendations are given for the values of each of the parameters in this representation. In some ranges, the available data were inadequate, and additional experimental results were taken in order to clarify the recommendations."
"This paper describes some techniques for utilizing exponential transmission lines in microwave components in order to reduce element lengths, and hence size and weight, and to significantly increase the operating frequency range. Formulas are developed which relate line length to the frequency and rate of taper for transmission line resonators, and a nomogram is included for easy determination of spurious frequencies. Additional formulas are given for the distributed representation of lumped elements using exponential sections of both coaxial and strip transmission line, and their use described in application to microwave filters and related components. In addition, the paper describes how unusually large rejection bandwidths can easily be obtained by proper selection of the individual element lengths and rates of taper."
"The general availability of large high-speed computers has made the use of series expansions in complicated field theory problems feasible even when these series do not converge rapidly. This paper outlines the method and illustrates its application to the solution of a problem in cylindrical coordinates. At the same time, the errors inherent in this method of solution are indicated and estimates are made of their magnitudes. A comparison of the method with Slater's perturbation theory is made."
"In this paper a simple projective geometric construction is applied to the problem of finding the input impedance of a linear lossy twoport junction for a given output port termination. The method, an extension of Bracewell's transducer diagram, is presented in both the impedance and reflectance planes."
"A slotted line is generally used for voltage-standing-wave-ratio and impedance measurements in the microwave region. Because a slotted line operable down to 25 Mc would be from 10 to 15 feet long, it is impractical for general laboratory use, and is difficult and expensive to construct with the necessary mechanical tolerances."
"An inline adapter from miniature air dielectric strip transmission line with a ground plane spacing of 0.130 in to half height X-band waveguide has been developed by the Microwave Design Group at Hycon Manufacturing Company, Monrovia, Calif. The upper wall of the waveguide was used as the lower ground plane for the strip-line. Unity coupling was accomplished through a transverse slot in the common wall. The slot was 0.066-in wide by 0.750-in long surrounded by a metal cavity 0.250 in by 1.000 in built into the ground planes. (See Fig. 1.) The slot junction was matched by use of tunable shorts both in the strip-line and the waveguide. The output of the 50-ohm stripline was terminated by a built-in strip-line load whose VSWR was 1.04."
"It has been pointed out to the authors that the formulas contained in their paper refer only to air-filled and not to dielectric-filled strip transmission lines. This is indeed the case and constitutes an omission which is now rectified by sketching the simple extension to the dielectric-filled case."
"Most methods used to measure the phase shift and attenuation through a microwave network require that the network be matched to the waveguide or the VSWR must be measured. In passive networks, these are simple and straightforward operations. However, in some active networks, principally networks which are time/temperature dependent, these operations become very tedious and time cousuming, the method illustrated here can measure the phase shift and attenuation simultaueously, directly, independently, eliminates the inconvenience of measuring the VSWR, or matching the network to the waveguide and consists of generally available microwave equipment."
"The design technique to be described in this note is applicable to tunable coaxial baud-pass filters having narrow bandwidths (i.e., less than 10 percent). In the frequeucy range of 1500 Mc to about 10,000 Mc, coaxial band-pass filters usually employ coupled /spl lambda//4 resonant cavities. Unlike direct coupled waveguide band-pass filters which are often amenable to a complete paper design, these coaxial band-pass filters require empirical developmental methods to supplement the filter theory customarily employed. The purpose of this note is to present a technique for simplifying the empirical development."
"Microwave band-pass filters using high-Q cavity resonators can often be designed for almost negligible midband dissipation losses (i.e., <1/2 db). If these filters are designed for a maximally flat amplitude response, the insertion loss within the pass band is approximately equal to the reflection loss within the pass band. Then R = 10 log (1 + X/sup 2n/), where R = reflection loss in db X = normalized frequency variable n = number of cavity resonators."
"Assume a transverse electric wave,TE mode, propagated in a waveguide with a circular boundary. The radial boundary condition gives a combination Bessel function equation."
"In a typical laboratory measurement of the field-intensity distribution in a resonant cavity, the resonant frequency of the position of a small metal or dielectric bead. The field distribution itself is then deduced directly from the frequency change."
"In the conventional microwave mixer it is generally necessary to provide a low-pass filter or some similar network in the intermediate-frequency output circuit. This filter usually takes the form of a capacitance or choke, which is arranged to present, as nearly as possible, a short circuit to the signal and local oscillator frequencies. For a microwave mixer with an IF of less than 100 Mc chokes have been found to be satisfactory provided that a correct choice of the short-circuit position has been made. It is difficult, however, to design a choke system with a capacitance of less than 5 pf and, even at intermediate frequencies as high as 100 Mc, a capacitance of this value could seriously limit the fractional IF bandwidth or the noise performance attainable. At intermediate frequencies greater than 1000 Mc it was expected that the problems of design of a low-pass filter would be even greater because of the dificuity of meeting the conflicting requirements of efficient RF rejection and lF coupling."
"This note describes the measured performance of a high-power S-band \"waffleiron\" filter. Techniques for designing varying-impedance corrugated waveguide filters in rectangular waveguide have been available for some time [1 ]. If propagation is restricted to the dominant TE/sub 10/ mode, these filters have wide well-matched pass bands and wide high-attenuation stop bands. Unfortunately, the filters may have spurious transmissions in the stop band when power is incident upon them in other modes, such as TE/sub 20/ or TE/sub 30/, if the guide wavelength of these modes at the stop band frequencies is equal to the guide wavelength of the TE/sub 10/ mode at the pass-band frequencies of the filter."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Possibilities of a small-bandwidth, small-insertion loss, magnetically tunable band-pass filters with nonreciprocal characteristics have been studied. the unloaded Q(Q/sub u/) for a ferrimagnetic sample has been derived, considering the fundamental definition of Q for a resonator. Theoretical analysis is given for coupling due to ferrimagnetic resonance, between two RF transmission circuits when the RF magnetic fields due to the two circuits are circularly polarized or, in general, elliptically polarized. The analysis gives the open-circuit impedance parameters for the equivalent circuit representing the ferrimagnetic coupling mechanism, from which the external-loading Q's (Q/sub e1/ and Q/sub e2/) are obtained. This analysis, applied to the case of the waveguides, shows that the behavior of the Q/sub e/ vs frequency characteristic depends upon the ellipticity of the RF magnetic field, and hence, upon the location of the off-axis position of the ferrimagnetic resonator. Also, the nonreciprocity depends upon the ellipticity of the RF magnetic field--the nonreciprocal behavior being optimum when the RF magnetic field is circularly polarized. Thus, again, for the case of waveguide circuits, the off-axis position determines the reverse-coupling-vs-frequency characteristic. The measurements on the experimental filters, tunable from 8.2 to 12.4 kMc, verify the results obtained from the theory. The forward and the reverse directions of the operation of these filters can be interchanged by reversing the dc magnetic field. Power limiting with these filters is briefly described."
"The velocity of surface-wave propagation on two types of axially modulated corrugated rods has been measured experimentally. Type A has a constant outer diameter and sinusoidally varying slot depth, while in type B the slot depth varies in virtue of a modulated outer diameter. In both cases the measured phase velocity is about ten per cent less than that for a uniformly corrugated rod with the average slot depth and outer diameter, but agrees within two per cent over the frequency range used with the value calculated from an analysis based on the Mathieu equation."
"A general formulation for the back-scattered field from loaded objects is given. It is shown that small resonant objects produce a much greater back-scattered field than small nonresonant ones. The theory is applied to short dipoles and small loops. The use of small resonant scatterers to measure electric and magnetic fields by scattering techniques is discussed. Resonant scatterers are found to have several advantages over nonresonant scatterers when used for field measurements."
"A new procedure of matching is presented, based in the equations which transform the output reflection coefficient of a lossless two-port network into the input reflection coefficient. The parameters of the equations are the residual reflection coefficients which can be easily measured. The optimum reflection coefficients which have the minimum frequency variation are computed for the specific case when the frequency variation of the residual reflection coefficients can be approximated by a circular arc in the smith diagram. An illustrative example is given to explain the determination of the position and the size of the inductive obstacles that match a waveguide two-port structure within a wide frequency band."
"An X-band electrically-tunable ferroelectric phase shifter has been constructed. The phase shifter is reciprocal and consists of a thin ferroelectric slab completely filling the transverse plane of a rectangular waveguide with suitable dielectric matching sections placed symmetrically about the slab forming a band-pass filter. Phase shift is controlled by applying a dc electric field to the ferroelectric. The measured characteristics of this device indicate that incremental phase shifts of 40/spl deg/ to 50/spl deg/ are attainable over a bandwidth of 400 Mc centered about 9.3 kMc with insertion losses ranging from 2 to 6 db. Since the phase shifter does not require a magnetic field for operation, the device can be biased with inexpensive, light-weight equipment requiring negligible dc control power, and the response time can be expected to be fast."
"A balanced-type diode amplifier is reported, in which the cutoff mode of the pumping waveguide resonating with the diode capacitances, is used as a signal circuit and a series connected diode loop is used as an idler. Theoretical noise-figure and gain-bandwidth product are derived after calculating the equivalent susceptance of two diodes which are parallel-connected for the signal input and series-connected for the idler. This reveals that 1) the noise figure of the balanced-type amplifier can be expressed in the same form as that of the single diode amplifier, and 2) the gain-bandwidth product is identical to that of the single diode amplifier. In the experiment at 1900 Mc, a bandwidth of more than 200 Mc is obtained at the gain of more than 10 db. A single-channel noise-figure of 2.5 db is measured at the pump power of 100 Mw."
"The paper gives a survey of the literature concerning the electromagnetic properties of wire grids. As an introduction to the literature survey, a short description of the properties and applications of wire grids is given. Finally some particular grid configurations are mentioned."
"The conditions for TE mode propagation in rectangular waveguides with nonuniform dielectric media are established. An equation is derived for determining the capacitivity functions which have equivalent curved waveguides with uniform dielectric media. The types of variable dielectric waveguides which have equivalent curved wall waveguides and a separable wave equation are determined."
"A method of stabilizing receivers for radio telescopes is discussed and shown to be capable of substantially reducing sensitivity to gain fluctuations. The system employs a variable noise source as a controlled feedback element. Such a system does not require long warm up times since the output is dependent only upon the stability of the variable noise source and reaches stabilization very rapidly. Investigations were made of a number of variable noise sources for use in the system, includlng: gas discharge tubes with variable attenuators, crystal diodes, and gas discharge tubes with variable duty cycles. Several crystal diodes were measured and the noise output was found to be linear with current for temperatures up to approximately 5000/spl deg/K. A variable noise source using a gas discharge tube with variable duty cycles to adjust the average temperature of the comparison termination of the radiometer is also discussed. Results are given for an experimental X-band system using a crystal diode as a variable noise source. For this system, a reduction of gain by 5 db had no measurable effect on the accuracy of measurement."
"The use of an electric probe for measurement of induced surface currents on obstacles in a parallel plate region is described. An analysis of the sources of error, and in particular the interaction of the probe with the obstacle, is examined theoretically and experimentally. It is concluded that the technique is capable of yielding measurements of good accuracy."
"In this note, experimental results will be presented for practical coaxial and waveguide band-pass filters. Filters of both types were originally developed in the 1700 Mc to 2300 Mc frequency range for application in a wide-band microwave radio relay communications system. The specifications for these filters called for very low input VSWR's over an appreciable part of the filter pass bands. This is necessary to minimize the degradation in system performance due to intermodulation noise resulting from feeder distortion of microwave transmission lines and/or group delay distortion within the microwave filters. Both the coaxial and waveguide band-pass filters employed five direct coupled resonators. Filters were designed for Butterworth (maximally flat amplitude) response shapes and nominal filter 3 db bandwidths of 60 Mc"
"Through the use of the familiar hybrid directional coupler and two PIN junction diodes as load impedances, the power delivered to the port not directly coupled to the input may be limited to any desired level, without rigid tolerances on the diode impedances. Starting with the scattering matrix of the hybrid and specifying arbitrary load reflection coefficients, the general properties of the device will be derived, and then its power-limiting capabilities will be examined in conjunction with the properties of the PIN diode."
"Numerous ways are known for resolving a polarized microwave signal into pairs of orthogonally polarized components. Although pairs of orthogonal components contain redundant information, in many experimental applications it is desirable to have both linearly polarized and circularly polarized components available for comparison purposes. These four polarization components are derived simultaneously in the simple resolver-mixer assembly of Fig. 1. The X-band device shown represents an extension of principles applied earlier to an instantaneous polarimeter."
"A waveguide propagating the TE/sub 10/ mode can carry more power than the normal rectangular waveguide if it has a symmetrically placed channel in the E-plane as shown in fig. 1. The greater height of the channel in the center of the waveguide will allow a higher voltage to be applied before dielectric breakdown occurs. The TE/sub 10/ cutoff wavelength /spl lambda//sub c/ was investigated using the methods of Iashkin and Cohn to find out if the cutoff wavelength of the channel waveguide was equivalent to that of the rectangular waveguide /spl lambda//sub cr/."
"A relatively simple form of microwave frequency diplexer consists of a waveguide E- or H-plane Y-junction terminated with baudpass filters in each of the two output ports. The E- or H-plane bifurcation, or zero-degree Y-junction, allows a compact diplexer design as shown in Fig. 1."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"If certain criteria are met, a microwave oscillator may be synchronized by the injection of a controlling signal into the oscillator cavity. Synchronization is dependent upon oscillator circuit parameters, the ratio of injected power to oscillator power, and frequency difference between the free-running oscillator and the injection signal. Locking has been observed with injection signals 70 db below the oscillator output and 30-db ratios have been demonstrated to be easily realizable. Injection locking may be considered a form of amplification that permits taking advantage of the fact that microwave oscillators are smafler, lighter, less expensive and more efficient than amplifier devices. The low-frequency theory of Adler is shown to describe accurately the locking phenomena in reflex klystron oscillators and the transient response is extended to determine limitations on the amplification of modulated signals. Experimental verification of the theory is shown for 180/spl deg/ phase modulation of the locking signal at rates up to 100 kc for a VA-201 klystron. Design relations and curves are presented and applications and improvements are discussed."
"The hypercomplex matrix methods developed to treat variable parameter elements are reviewed. The application of these techniques to the linear analysis of networks of variable parameter elements is demonstrated by considering a specific problem. A network containing two resonated variable capacitors separated by one-eighth wavelength of transmission line is first considered by the phase dependent admittance method. A partial treatment of the subharmonic case is given by this method to provide a physically plausible understanding of the network behavior. The complete problem is treated by the hypercomplex matrix methods. The discussion of the results illustrates how the network properties are determined from the mathematical formalism. Calculated characteristics of the two-capacitor network are given for several values of circuit parameters."
"It is shown how to connect two identical hybrids to obtain a directional coupler of arbitrary power division that operates over a broader band than that of the components. The broad-banding technique is possible with a certain kind of hybrid that includes Riblet couplers, multihole hybrids, coaxial hybrids and semioptical hybrids, but excludes T hybrids and ring hybrids. Riblet couplers have a geometry particularly adaptable to the broad-banding technique. Where the balance of one of these couplers is better than 1 db, the balance of the broad-band hybrid can be made better than 0.16 db. The broad-banding technique is particularly effective in the case of the 100 per cent transfer directional coupler type of circuit used for band separation filters and RADAR duplexers. In the semioptical waveguide band-splitting filters the bandwidth can be increased from about one to about four octaves (35-75 kMc to 35-580 kMc)."
"The behavior of a dc biased millimeter-wave detector diode was investigated by theoretical analysis and experimental measurement. The results indicate that because of the nonlinearity of the diode, shot noise appearing across the diode increases with dc biasing. For the same reason conversion gain of the detector increases with bias. The increase in gain is faster than the increase in noise for a certain range of bias current. Thus the noise figure of the diode detector and its minimum detectable signal are decreased."
"The PIN diode is a double diffused junction with an intrinsic layer separating the P and N regions. At frequencies above 100 Mc, the diode ceases to be a rectifier because of carrier storage and transit time effects. Its shunt capacitance is quite small because of the separation of the P and N regions by the I layer. Conductivity of the I region can be varied by a dc bias current and the device becomes an electrically variable resistor which can be used for microwave attenuators and modulators up to frequencies as high as 20 Gc. The PIN junctions are mounted on posts which are inserted in a 50-ohm strip transmission line as shunt elements, and a number of these elements, spaced a quarter wavelength apart at midband, are used to form an attenuator. At the appropriate bias current, yielding 50-ohm junction resistances, the diode elements are reactively compensated by choice of post dimensions so that they are effectively pure resistances, yielding an image attenuation of 4.2 db per element. Many elements can be used to attain any desired total attenuation and higher impedance end elements can be used to improve the SWR. Bandwidths of 4 to 1 with low SWR in both ON and OFF conditions are achievable. Maximum attenuation of 60 db, insertion loss of 1 db, and SWR of 1.5 are typical for a 12-diode attenuator and powers of the order of watts can be handled with negligible harmonic generation. When used as a pulse modulator, rise times of the order of 10 nsec are achievable."
"A method of analyzing a multimode transmission system is described, which is based upon the measurement of mean-square electric field along a line parallel to the waveguide axis. Although the analysis given is for a rectangular waveguide, the method has the advantage that it can readily be adapted to all types of transmission structures."
"The excitation of plane surface waves by a line source on a unidirectionally conducting 1) infinite and 2) semi-infinite screen is considered. The conditions for the existence of the surface wave and the optimum location of the line source for obtaining the highest efficiency of excitation is determined."
"Multiple-line directional couplers that utilize only two linearly independent modes of propagation are possible, provided certain restrictions on the maximum coupling are not exceeded. This paper discusses a class of multiple-line directional couplers which may be considered as a generalization of the familiar double-stub four-port directional coupler. The basic design relations for the symmetrical case are developed, and frequency behavior is investigated. Experimental results for an L-band six-port hybrid junction are presented and compared with theoretical curves. Limitations on maximum coupling and fabrication problems will probably confine the number of lines in practical circuits to a small value. Bandwidths of couplers of this class tend to become narrower for the same total coupling off the main line as the number of lines is increased; however, standard techniques for broadbanding are applicable. Experimental results on the six-port hybrid junction agreed well with theory, and the circuit proved to be relatively compact."
"The use of single-section quarter wavelength TEM mode directional couplers having excellent wide-band performance is well known. A method for decreasing the coupling variation with frequency by cascading three quarter wavelength couplers has also been described. The purpose of this note is to analyze, for loose coupling, the behavior of a two quarter wave section coupler and compare the results with a coupler consisting of three sections."
"One of the most important properties of a periodic structure is the shape of the ω - β diagram. A common technique for measuring the ω - β diagram is to form a resonant section by placing shorting planes at positions of symmetry within the periodic structure and to observe the resonant frequencies of the resulting resonator. Discussed in this correspondence is a technique wherein the far end of the periodic structure is shorted and the positions of nulls of voltage on an input line are observed as frequency is varied. From these nulls it is possible to determine the frequencies where the electrical length of the loaded structure is a multiple of π radians. Basically, it is a procedure for graphically determining points on the ω - β diagram."
"Somlo has presented a convenient procedure for obtaining the characteristic impedance and length of a single section of lossless transmission line to match two impedances. One impedance and the conjugate of the other are plotted on a circular transmission-line chart, i.e., Smith or Carter chart. A circle is drawn through the two points with its center on the X =0 axis. If the circle does not lie entirely within the R =0 circle, the two impedances cannot be matched with a single section of lossless transmission line with real characteristic impedance. However, if one does not require that the transmission line have a real characteristic impedance, it can be synthesized by a symmetrical T or /spl pi/ network consisting of either lossless inductances or capacitances."
"A diplexer is a familiar device which readily combines two separate radio-frequency signals to permit simultaneous transmission through a single transmission line or separates a composite signal into its constituent parts to permit each part to be transmitted or proceed individually. This correspondence describes a unique method of deriving diplexing action in a simple Y-junction circulator, and suggests a method of diplexing in other devices which depend upon the phase shift properties of ferrimagnetic material for their operation."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The bandwidths of two types of limiters operating below diode resonance and one type of limiter operating at diode resonance are calculated. A 2.5-Gc base-band limiter was made providing a low power insertion loss of less than 1 db, a limiting threshold of 10 mw, and a high power isolation of greater than 20 db. A 0.9-to 1.3-Gc matched limiter was made having a VSWR of less than 1.2 for all power levels. The burnout power of these two limiters was calculated to be about 10 watts incident CW power or 1500 watt-microsecond incident pulse energy. Using the diode resonance the calculations indicate that it is possible to make a 5-Gc limiter with 15 per cent bandwidth, less than 1-db low power insertion loss, a limiting level of 10 mw, and greater than 20-db isolation at high power. The bandwidths derived for diode limiting are equally applicable to switching."
"Wide-band modulation of light by means of the electro-optic effect requires a traveling-wave type of interaction, with the modulation field traveling with the same phase velocity as the light in some suitably proportioned structure. If electro-optic material is lossy at the modulation frequencies, the modulating field is strongly attenuated with a resultant low-modulation efficiency. A scheme is analyzed here in which power is continuously fed into the light-carrying guide to make up for the attenuation as the wave progresses down the guide. By suitably tapering the coupling and the uncoupled propagation constant, the electric field can be maintained constant in the light-carrying guide and the \"coupled\" propagation constant in this guide can be maintained in synchronism with the light wave, thereby increasing the modulation efficiency."
"A variational expression for the propagation constant of the waves in waveguides with inhomogeneous media and with wall impedance is presented. Using this expression, the shift of the propagation constant due to the wall impedance is calculated. It is also clarified how the removal of degeneracy takes place. Then the same problem is discussed using another approach, a perturbation method. The result is identical with that of the variational principle, as is to be expected. In the final section, taking degenerate TEM modes as an example, it is shown that appropriate choices of field configuration are necessary when the formula for an attenuation constant derived from the conservation of energy is applied to degenerate modes."
"A directional filter is a completely matched four-port device which exhibits directional properties and a filter-like frequency characteristic. This paper extends work previously done on a single-cavity narrow-band circularly polarized waveguide directional filter to the case of three cavities connected in cascade with an overall bandwidth greater than 1 per cent. Analysis of the filter leads to a relationship between the two inner coupling factors and the two outermost coupling factors for a maximally flat response. The results obtained from an experimental filter using the design approach discussed herein compare favorably with the theoretical filter response. Directivity and band-elimination filter characteristics are discussed."
"The problem of transmitting electromagnetic power through a dissipative waveguide in an optimal fashion is examined. At any frequency the problem is reduced to a weighted eigenvalue problem in which the maximum efficiency appears as the eigenvalue and the required excitation is specified by the corresponding eigenvector. Numerical results are presented."
"An integral equation valid for fabry-perot type resonators with reflectors of arbitrary curvature and spacing is derived, and equations for the planar, confocal, and spherical geometries are considered further. A numerical iteration method is used to solve the equations, and the properties of the various solutions for the different kernels are discussed. Results show that the confocal type has the lowest diffraction loss, and that the losses in the planar- and spherical-type geometries are identical, as are the normal mode field distributions over the reflectors, apart from a change in sign of the phase angle. Variational methods are applied to give results for the eigenvalues of the planar geometry with great facility, particularly for cases where the eigenvalues are closely spaced. Some potential uses and the respective merits of the resonators are briefly mentioned."
"Quarter-wave transformers are widely used to obtain an impedance match within a specified tolerance between two lines of different characteristic impedances over a specified frequency band. This paper gives design formulas and extensive tables of designs, most of which were especially derived so that an integrated account could be presented for the first time. Numerous examples are given. Only homogeneous, synchronous transformers and filters are included in this paper, but a short bibliography on related topics is appended. The theory is also applied to band-pass filters, by showing how to convert quarter-wave transformers into half-wave filter prototypes. The theoretical and numerical results presented are applicable to the design of impedance transformers, direct-coupled cavity filters, short-line low-pass filters, optical antireflection coatings and interference filters, acoustical transformers, branch-guide directional couplers, TEM-mode coupled-transmission-line directional couplers, and other circuits. These applications have been or will be dealt with in separate papers; this paper gives the basic theory and some of the numerical data required for these applications."
"The static in-line calorimeter measures the temperature rise in the walls of a waveguide caused by the attenuation of microwave power flowing through the waveguide. It is simple and inexpensive and can be constructed so that it will fit on waveguide already existing in a microwave system. The device should be reliable because it uses no active circuitry. In addition, few mechanical problems are encountered in its use because the existing waveguide need not be altered. The theory of the device is developed, and two experimental S-band calorimeters using stainless steel waveguide and resistance-wire bridge temperature indicators are described. The measured sensitivity and time constant for both units fall within the experimental error of confirming the theoretically predicted figures."
"It is shown that a plane screen consisting of closely-spaced parallel wires which are separated from one another and which are such that the radius of the wires and the spacing between them are small in comparison to wavelength, can support a surface wave, the spread of whose field components depends only on the angle which the direction of propagation makes with the direction of the wires. The problem of radiation from a discontinuity in such a semi-infinite waveguide is studied for the following three types of discontinuities: 1) when the waveguide terminates in empty space, 2) when it terminates at another such semi-infinite waveguide having different propagation characteristics, and 3) when it terminates at a perfectly conducting half-plane. In each case, the power reflection coefficient, where applicable the power transmission coefficient, the loss of power due to radiation, and its angular distribution are evaluated. The motivation for this investigation is briefly indicated."
"A characteristic equation and a cutoff equation are derived for higher order surface-wave modes on lossless isotropic cylinders with arbitrary radial permittivity variation. The derivation, based on the use of the fundamental matrix of a set of differential equations, reduces analytical work and results in expressions well suited for digital computer evaluation of surface-wave eigenvalues and mode spectra. The theory is applied in an investigation of HE/sub 21/ and EH/sub21/ mode propagation for a particular set of models for the radially varying permittivity. Typical results showing eigenvalue variation, dispersion characteristics and radial field variation, including experimental verification of dispersion characteristics, are shown. The method of analysis can be extended to anisotropic cylinders with permittivity a function of both radius and frequency."
"A new type of waveguide directional coupler is described which has a discharge tube as the coupling element in the common narrow wall between the guides. The use of the discharge tube allows continuous control of the amount of coupling between the guides. The theory of the coupler is given with curves for designing such a coupler. The paper describes the results obtained from a 3-db coupler. Measurements were made at a frequency of 450 Mc, of VSWR, noise output, and switching speed. These show a VSWR of the order of 1.3 over the control range, and an excess noise temperature with a peak of 20,000/spl deg/K at one value of control current. The coupler is capable of switching up to speeds of 1000 cps."
"Couplings in direct-coupled waveguide band-pass filters can be described in two different ways. Cohn describes couplings in terms of normalized susceptances of the coupling circuit elements (e. g., posts or irises ). Dishal describes interstage couplings in terms of a coefficient of coupling between adjacent resonators. Although Cohn has briefly mentioned coefficients of coupling in his paper, the interchangeability of the two methods of describing the couplings has not been clearly established."
"A novel combination of ring hybrid and variable power divider is shown to result in a three-terminal device having a single matched input and two outputs whose relative phase can be continuously varied independent of their amplitude."
"This communication describes the interaction of an electron beam with a beam-generated hydrogen plasma. As a result of this interaction the dc energy of the electron beam is converted into microwave energy in the plasma."
"A double-prism attenuator, similar to the one built by Garnham for use at 35 Gc, was built in the laboratory for use at 100 Gc and above. This attenuator utilizes the well-known fact that a wave which is incident on the interface between two dielectrics at an angle greater than the critical angle is totally reflected. If the wave is in a medium of index of refraction n and the other medium is free space the critical angle is /spl theta//sub c/ = sin/sup -1/ 1/n."
"In this note it is demonstrated how the sampling theorem may be used to reduce the problems of transmission line taper synthesis and antenna aperture field synthesis to that of optimizing a polynomial. In both cases the problem may be stated mathematically in the following form: find the function g(x) which is zero outside the domain - /spl pi//spl les/x/spl les//spl pi/ that will yield a desired f(u) where f(u) is given by the fourier transform of g(x)."
"Modern antenna array designs frequently require the use of high-speed, electronically controlled phase shifters. The use of low-noise receivers now becoming available also dictates the requirement that such phase shifters have zero, or very small, losses. The use of parametric devices as active elements in such phase shifters is particularly attractive because of their high degree of reliability, high frequency capability, and excellent noise performance. This memorandum proposes such an active electronic phase shifter, which accomplishes the additional function of providing amplification or attenuation independently of its phase shift."
"Oversize rectangular waveguide using TE/sub 10/ mode propagation has been suggested as a means of reducing the attenuation and fabrication difficulties of transmission lines and components for frequencies above 40 Gc. Experiments on straight sections of such transmission lines show that it is superior to pure optical transmission for short distances."
"A plasma column irradiated by an electromagnetic wave which has its electric vector and direction of propagation perpendicular to the axis of the tube exhibits Tonks-Dattner resonances in its absorption pattern when the electron density in the column is varied. The pattern consists of a main resonance and a number of less pronounced subsidiary resonances at currents corresponding to electron densities lower than that of the main peak. The subsidiary resonances grow progressively smaller as the electron density decreases."
"In the theory of Herlofson only one resonance is predicted for a cylindrical plasma column irradiated by an electromagnetic wave having both its direction of propagation and electric field E perpendicular to the axis of the column, a mode which he designates as sagittal. Herlofson treats the problem by solving the wave equation in cylindrical coordinates and then imposing boundary conditions to find the frequency or frequencies for maximum scattering from the column. In his treatment, the modes which involve Bessel functions of order higher than unity have the same resonant frequency as that for the dipolar mode for which the order of the Bessel function is unity. No resonances at all are predicted for the parallel mode of excitation in which E is parallel to the axis of the column. These predictions are contrary to the experimental observations of Dattner and others for the saggital mode and also contrary to the observations reported by Willis and Petroff in which a spectrum of resonances is found for the parallel mode. Experiments by Boley have shown that the sagittal scattering for the higher order resonances is that appropriate for a dipole, that is, his experiments show that the field about the column for the higher-order modes is not quadropolar or sextupolar."
"A tunnel-diode amplifier is stable when the amplifier network is reduced to an arbitrary single loop and the equation given by the sum of the impedances around this loop equal to zero [/spl Sigma/Z(P)=0 where p= /spl gamma/ +j/spl omega/ ] has no solution in the right-half plane (/spl gamma/>0). This is equivalent to the requirement that the system determinant shall have no zeros in the right-half plane. Several authors have used this criterion. To determine analytically whether /spl Sigma/Z(p) has any positive zeros is very laborious if at all possible for many practical amplifier configurations."
"The above article begins with ten extensive footnotes, but the authors omit the one reference that discusses their problem: Deschamps' \"Hyperbolic Protractor.\" The undersigned writers concede that the method of Mittra and King is different, but it is more complicated and less useful than that of Deschamps."
"In a recent paper, Hyltin and Kotzebue have given some interesting formulas about the maximum efficiency of reactance-diode harmonic generators. It may be interesting to submit to the attention of the authors some considerations about their theoretical analysis."
"In the millimeter wavelength region, as in other regions, the design of matching layers for dielectric surfaces is limited by the lack of suitable dielectric materials. Artificial dielectric layers, formed by periodic perturbations of the boundary surface, are not practical because of the small physical dimensions required. The following approach uses two layers of materials whose relative dielectric constants are given. The thicknesses of the layers are chosen to eliminate reflections at the desired center frequency. A broad-band match is obtained because the layers can be made less than an eighth wavelength in thickness."
"The purpose of this communication is to propose a new method of noise-figure measurement for a microwave amplifier of small noise output. The new method is helpful when the accuracy of a conventional method is not satisfactory."
"Any lossless 2n-port can be represented as a cascade of three 2n-ports: an all-pass network, a set of n uncoupled ideal transformers, and another all-pass network. The 2n-port may be either a physical 2n-port [i.e., a device with an even number of ports considered as a device mapping the scattering (impedance) matrix of a device connected to one half of the ports into the input scattering (impedance) matrix ], or it may be a multimode transmission line. In the latter case the network may be a set of uniform lines with a discontinuity, and there may be a condition that the mode voltages or currents are continuous across the discontinuity. If a/sub 1/, a/sub 2/, b/sub 1/, and b/sub 2/ are the incident and reflected wave vectors, the voltage continuity requires a/sub 1/+b/sub 1/ = a/sub 2/ +b/sub 2/, while current continuity requires a/sub 1/-b/sub 1/ = a/sub 2/ -b/sub 2/."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"George L. Matthaei (S'49-A'52-M'57) was born in Tacoma, Wash., on August 28,1923. After leaving college for three years of military service, he returned to his studies and received the B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Washington, Seattle, in 1948, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Stanford University, Stanford, Calif., in 1952. While at Stanford he was a Research Assistant in the Electronics Research Laboratory, where he did research on network synthesis. In 1951 he joined the faculty of the Division of Electrical Engineering of the University of California at Berkeley, where he was an Instructor, 1951, and an Assistant Professor, 1953. He continued research on network synthesis and supervised graduate student research in that field. During the years 1955 to 1958 he was a member of the Technical Staff of the Ramo Wooldridge Corporation, Los Angeles, Calif., where he was engaged in system analysis and research on microwave components. In September, 1958, he joined the staff of Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park, Calif., where he is presently Manager of the Electromagnetic Techniques Laboratory. Dr. Matthaei is a member of Sigma Xi and Tau Beta Pi."
"The Keynote of the 1962 PGMTT Symposium was the reciprocal dependence between the National Bureau of Standards and the microwave profession. The fact that the Symposium was held at the NBS Boulder Laboratories symbolized our mutual interest. I would like to analyze this relationship and suggest the mutual benefits to be gained by fostering it."
"Band-stop filters can be used to eliminate a band of frequencies, or to separate such a band from other frequencies; if properly designed, the insertion loss at frequencies outside the stop-band can be minimized. The filters considered here have stop-band bandwidths up to a few per cent, and equiripple or maximally flat characteristics in the passband. Design formulas are presented. The effect of dissipation loss is included. A strip-line filter and a waveguide filter were constructed. Experimental results conform closely to the performance predicted by theory."
"The use of high-power harmonic suppressors, or low-pass filters, is becoming an accepted technique in the microwave state-of-the-art. The filter to be described is a novel version of the \"leaky wall\" type. A C-band fundamental frequency harmonic suppressor has been designed with attenuation characteristics verified through the fourth harmonic (K band). This filter exhibited attenuation of greater than 40 db for several harmonic modes, fundamental frequency insertion loss of less than 0.15 db, an input VSWR of less than 1.15 in the pass band and an input VSWR of less than 2:1 in the stop band. The over-all length of this device is 18 in with a cross section of approximately 7 in x 7 in. Data on a similar X-band low-pass filter are also presented."
"A tunable band-pass filter using the dipole resonance of a plasma column has been investigated. The center frequency of the pass band can be electronically tuned over a large portion of a waveguide band. For the prototype investigated at S band, the insertion loss at the center frequency was less than 2 db, with isolation for frequencies outside the pass band on the order of 12 db. A typical 3-db bandwidth of this prototype was 150 Mc. It is expected that this figure can be improved by choice of better discharges than the positive column of the mercury discharge used here. An analysis of the external Q's for the input and output coupling is presented. From these calculations, it is possible to determine approximately the various coupling parameters that produce a given degree of overcoupling."
"With the advent of microwave transmitter systems requiring high spectral purity, it has become important to control the interline noise and modulation products in the fine grain spectrum of CW or pulsed microwave amplifiers. Some of the causes of interline noise and modulation in high-power microwave amplifiers such as klystrons, TWT's and coaxial triodes are reviewed in this paper. A spectrum analyzer capable of resolving interline noise and modulation products in CW or pulsed microwave spectrums is described. This analyzer has a dynamic range of better than 50 db and a resolution of less than 2 cps. Some typical measurements made on transmitters operating in the UHF and L-band regions are presented."
"An examination of the properties of longitudinally-magnetized ferrite in coaxial transmission lines reveals regions of low and high attenuation which could be used for the ON and OFF conditions, respectively, of a switch. A strip line switch designed for fast switching and L band is described. Its performance includes approximately 0.l-db insertion loss and 45-db isolation over a 13 per cent band."
"Branch-guide directional couplers can be built in most types of transmission line. A design procedure is here developed which gives predictable and superior performance over a specified frequency band. A new chart was constructed from which the coupler impedances or admittances can be calculated quickly and with sufficient accuracy for nearly all practical applications. A five-branch, 6-db coupler and a thirteen-branch, 0-db coupler were constructed in waveguide. The measured points and computed curves were in excellent agreement. Over the frequency band of 1300 /spl plusmn/ 130 Mc, the 0-db coupler had a VSWR of less than 1.07, its insertion loss was better than 0.05 db, and the couplings into the two remaining arms were weaker than 20 db. This coupler can pass at least 5 Mw of peak power in air at atmospheric pressure."
"A strip transmission line varactor duplexer was developed for 6-kw operation at 1600 Mc for a missile application. The insertion losses were 0.6 db from antenna to receiver, and 0.3 db from transmitter to antenna. Transmitter to receiver isolation was greater than 40 db. The paper discusses the parameters leading to the choice of varactor and circuit configuration as to provide the power handling ability. Also discussed are the characteristics of interest to system designers that are peculiar to the varactor duplexer."
"The design of band-pass filters using interdigital arrays of resonator line elements between parallel ground planes is discussed. Two approximate design procedures are described, both of which permit design directly from lumped element, low-pass, prototype filters. Both design procedures will work for either narrow or wide-band filters, but one procedure gives more practical dimensions for filters having wide bandwidths (such as an octave), while the other gives more practical dimensions for filters having narrow or moderate bandwidth. The resulting filters are very compact, have relatively noncritical manufacturing tolerances, and strong stop bands with the second pass band centered at three times the center frequency of the first pass band. The dimensions and measured performance curves are presented for a 10 per cent bandwidth design and an octave bandwidth design."
"An investigation of waveguide phase-shifting techniques was conducted for the purpose of establishing the design criteria for a device capable of meeting the following specifications: a phase-shift variable over a minimum range of 360/spl deg/ and a maximum phase error of /spl plusmn/ 5/spl deg/ at any phase setting over at last a 10 per cent frequency bandwidth. The dielectric loaded waveguide is the basis of a device which meets the design requirements. In this paper the analytical expressions applicable to the dielectric loaded waveguide cross section are derived using the transverse resonance procedure. A rigorous description of the propagation characteristics of this structure for various parameter values is obtained through the use of a high-speed computing machine. The excellent correlation between computed values and the data obtained from an experimental model is presented."
"A new and simple technique for measuring total power flow to within /spl plusmn/ 1 db in an overmoded waveguide has been developed. A set of fixed probes (typically, 40 probes) samples the electric fields normal to the surface of an enlarged waveguide section. The enlarged waveguide and a dispersive line stretcher permit quick determinations of power delivered to a matched load when the power is propagating in a large number of modes. Extension to the case of a mismatched load is also discussed. This technique is useful for measuring spurious emissions of microwave transmitters and power flow in millimeter and submillimeter waveguides."
"Stringent system requirements and the lack of accurate standards have been the source of many controversies in low-noise receiver measurements. Some of the critical measurement problems where subtle errors commonly arise, and their significance in automatic noise temperature monitoring systems have been investigated at L-, S-, and X-band frequencies. Problems of interest include the following: 1) difficulty in determining losses associated with low-noise systems and measuring equipment, 2) differences in noise figure measurements depending upon the use of gated or nongated receivers, 3) discrepancies in excess noise ratios of secondary standard argon gas tubes, 4) non-uniformity in the output noise power of such gas tubes due to critical coupling from the gas tube proper to the waveguide (or coaxial) output flange. As a partial solution to these problems noise standards at liquid nitrogen temperature in coax and waveguide were developed at the aforementioned bands."
"In the usual microwave limiter, the presence of one more large signals above a certain threshold level produces a limiting action which can be explained as a change in insertion loss of the limiter so as to maintain a constant output power, regardless of the number of independent signals present. Experimental results of coincidence mode passive ferrite limiters in S band and C band are presented which show that they do not behave in this manner, but rather to a good approximation limit on a frequency-by-frequency or frequency-selective basis. A qualitative explanation of this phenomenon is presented, using the passive parametric limiter as a model."
"A millimeter wave loss and delay measurement set has been built which combines large dynamic range with high accuracy. Up to 80-db loss and 100-nsec envelope dela!y can be measured in the 50-60-Gc range. The accuracy for 0-40-db loss measurements is /spl plusmn/ 0.05 db while beyond that accuracy is progressively diminished to /spl plusmn/ 0.9 db at 80 db. Delay accuracy for low-loss devices (0-20 db) is /spl plusmn/0.2 nsec. The measurement method employs rapid comparison switching, heterodyne detection, precision IF loss and delay standards. The method, the test set and some new microwave components are described. Sources of measurement error are discussed and some typical measurements are included."
"The diffraction of a plane electromagnetic wave by a planar rectangular array of perfectly conducting circular disks is considered. The diffracted field is calculated from the induced electric and magnetic dipole moments and higher-order multipole moments. Static and dynamic interactions between the induced dipole moments are being considered, first by using a plane-wave approximation for the dipole fields (for cases where the separation of the disks is large compared with the wavelength) and then by calculating the actual fields at each disk. The formulas are applied to calculate the input susceptance of a disk-loaded rectangular waveguide. Satisfactory agreement with experimental results is obtained."
"The analysis, construction, and performance of compact surface wave ferroelectric phase shifters suitable for operation in the100-to1000-MC frequency range are described. Although this ferroelectric loaded parallel-plane structure is a very low impedance structure, a satisfactory terminal impedance matching technique has been devised. Kilovolt level voltages are needed; but since the current required to maintain or rapidly shift phase is low, the over-all control power requirements are at least an order of magnitude less than those for comparable ferrite phase shifters. One of these room temperature operable phase shifters provided 348/spl deg/ of phase shift at 207 Mc. It had an insertion loss which varied from 3.7 to 2.2 db over a zero- to 4000-volt range of applied dc control voltage."
"A method for passively measuring the phase angle between two signals of the same frequency is described. While simple in concept, the system has no ambiguities throughout 360/spl deg/ and is independent of relative signal amplitudes because phase angle is displayed orthogonally to amplitude. Consisting principally of two hybrids with detectors and an X-Y indicator, the system contains no moving parts or active phasing devices. In addition to making routine phase measurements, it can be readily applied to automatic direction finders, polarization analyzers, and impedance plotters."
"It is shown that there is a certain wide class of three-port network that can be transformed into a circulator by the addition of reactive elements. For such synthesis from a symmetrical three-port junction it is necessary and sufficient for it to be loss-free and for the moduli of the two transmission coefficients to be different. This approach may be used in the design of broad-band circulators. For junctions approximating to an n-port circulator with n>3, it is shown that when the n reflection coefficients are matched by reactive networks in each arm, n particular transmission coefficients also vanish."
"The permittivity of a plane layer is assumed to vary continuously as a function of distance measured from the surface. Solutions for the field distributions of surface waves on the inhomogeneous layer are developed with the WKB technique. Transcendental equations for the phase velocity are derived for TE and TM modes. These equations are solved most conveniently with the aid of phase-velocity graphs which are included. The accuracy of the solution is verified by comparison with the rigorous solution for an exponential inhomogeneity."
"This paper describes a breadboard model of a UHF varactor diode backward-wave parametric amplifier that can be electronically tuned over an octave tuning range (250-500 Mc). It operates in a mode that has a relatively constant idler frequency; however, it uses two forward-wave transmission lines in contrast to the backward-wave transmission line requirement previously reported. A theoretical discussion on the design considerations of this mode is presented and applied to the UHF model. Measurements taken in the conventional mode of operation (output frequency equal to the input frequency) yielded voltage gain bandwidth products in excess of 100 Mc and over-all effective receiver noise temperatures of less than 140/spl deg/k. Detailed measurements in the mode where the constant idler frequency is used as the output were not taken because directional filters and circulators, which are necessary in this mode, were not available."
"Expressions are derived for the propagation function of a microwave signal inside a waveguide filled with a semiconductor with carrier density varying in time. The bearing of these expressions on the performance of semiconductor microwave modulators and on microwave methods for the measurement of lifetime in semiconductors is discussed."
"An extension of Houlding's method for measurement of varactor quality has been developed by using a swept-bias voltage instead of a discrete step in bias. The method can be used to measure the cutoff frequency of high-Q varactors if the law of capacitance variation is known. In this case, it is not necessary to measure capacity or reactance since cutoff frequency is shown to be determined by reflected power on a microwave-reflectometer system. The Sweep-Voltage Method places emphasis on the measurement of reflected power and a test bench is described for application of the method. The series resistance of high-voltage epitaxial varactors is shown, by calculation and experimental data, to be a function of bias. This is due to space-charge layer widening which causes the epitaxial base layer to vary in length. For this reason it is advantageous to compare high-voltage epitaxial varactors by sweeping the bias over a broad range of the diode characteristics. Data is given for typical per cent of reflected microwave power R/sup ~/ for 6.5-, 15-, and 100-v varactors where the varactor is matched to the line at 2.00-, 5.00- and 15.0-v bias and a sine wave at 100 kc with amplitude 4.00, 10.0 or 30.0 v is superimposed on the bias. The measurements are independent of the power incident on the varactor to a level of 700 /spl mu/w."
"Tapered dc magnetic fields can be used to broad-band ferrite resonance isolators of the rectangular waveguide type. In this work a ferrite slab of narrow resonance line width was employed in order to keep the ratio of reverse-to-forward attenuation large while the bandwidth of the isolator was broadened by means of an appropriately tapered magnetic field. A ratio of reverse-to-forward attenuation of more than 60 has been obtained experimentally over a 38 per cent frequency range at X band, and further improvement of these figures seems possible."
"The structure supporting the surface-wave consists of a row of concentric circular disks embedded in a Iossless dielectric medium. Exact solutions for the \"dipole mode\" (corresponding to the HE/sub 11/ surface-wave mode on a dielectric rod) are set up and an approximation is derived for calculating the propagation constants. It is shown experimentally that a pure \"dipole mode\" can be excited by simple means, and that propagation constants may be controlled over a wide range by varying the geometrical parameters of the periodic structure. The possible uses as a surface-wave antenna are discussed, and approximate radiation patterns are calculated from the field distribution in the terminal plane."
"Standing waves in a waveguide with dielectric and/or metal wall losses generally give rise to expressions for power dissipation per unit length containing a term which is a sinusoidal function of the distance along the waveguide. In the present paper this phenomenon is explained and expressions for the dissipation are derived. The development is carried out for TE and TM modes in a uniform dielectric filled waveguide of arbitrary cross section, and then again from the standpoint of transmission line theory. The practical implications of the results are discussed."
"An analysis is presented for the m-port symmetrical H-plane waveguide junction with central ferrite post. It has application to the engineering problem of microwave circulators and to the more academic problem of the empty symmetrical junction. An exact solution is formulated from which is developed an approximation that is equivalent to considering only the propagating modes of the rectangular waveguides. The method is found to give results in agreement with the theory for the 2-port junction (i. e., waveguide) with ferrite post, and with experiment for ferrite-free 3- and 4-port junctions. Theoretical design curves are given for the 3-port circulator, although for lack of suitable ferrite data, these have not been checked accurately. A number of 3- and 4-port circulators have been made to designs arising from the analysis. Because the microwave performance is derived explicitly in terms of the junction geometry and ferrite properties, the design of a particular component must of necessity involve much computation."
"A microwave modulator was devised which requires a minimum of modulation power and which has very high modulation efficiency. The modulator functions as a switch, which opens and closes a transmission line proportional to a time function which represents information in digital form. The modulator is a varactor diode operating in the reverse bias region. To obtain the required modulation characteristics, the diode was switched between two resonant modes. It was operated alternatively in series and in shunt resonance by varying the diode's capacitance. To obtain the resonant modes, tuning elements were added in series and in shunt with the varactor diode. At the design frequency of 2.2 Gc the semiconductor modulator has an insertion loss of less than 1 db in the transmission mode and more than 24 db in the rejection mode. In the transmission mode Q/sub L/ is close to one; in the rejection mode Q/sub L/ ranges from 30 to 50. The consumption of modulation power is extremely low. For a modulation voltage of square waveform with the fundamental frequency of 1 Mc, the dissipated modulation power is below 10/sup -8/ watts. The modulation efficiency is nearly one, since the response time of the varactor diode which is operated in the space charge region is below 10/sup -11/ sec."
"An experimental resonanre isolator showing the feasibility of newly developed chemically deposited ferrite films, was made in the 35-Gc region. Included in this letter are two graphs showing the isolation characteristics that were obtained and also a brief description of the film preparation techniques."
"A new type of device has been developed that locates the axes of a ferromagnetic crystal quickly and easily, without the usual time-consuming X-ray procedures. This device makes it possible to quickly find any desired axis of a ferromagnetic crystal and provides a convenient method of mounting the crystal on a rod along this axis."
"In order to use high mode-order microwave cavities (Fabry-Perot, confocal, or biconical spherical resonators) to achieve either high field intensities or high selectivity with low transmission losses, it is necessary to couple power into the resonaters efficiently. This may be accomplished if the coupling system acts as a transformer matching the lossy elements of the cavity to a source of input power, and if the coupling system has an aperture large enough to make diffraction losses negligible."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This paper defines value engineering, shows why it is necessary, and emphasizes the engineer's responsibility for using engineering disciplines in the design of a product. Recognizing that value engineering is a duty of the professional engineer, the paper stresses application of value engineering to attain Armed Services goals, and reduce costs while speeding up delivery of the weapon system. Many engineers, designing complex military equipment, become so engrossed with the input and output performance of a \"black box\" that they overlook the need for understanding the operational end-use of the equipment. This human tendency results at times in the engineer over-designing the equipment and, in some cases, creating inadequate designs. The required engineering disciplines to increase product-design effectiveness are described. Trade-off decisions which influence the total cost of a weapon system are Suggested, and a general method given for quantitatively documenting the cost."
"The satisfactory performance of microwave transmission lines, operating under High power, largely depends on their capacity of maintaining the operating temperature below the specified limit. The method presented here will enable the mechanical as well as electrical engineer to determine speedily the temperature in the inner and outer conductors of coaxial line operating under any power, size and ambient conditions."
"The effects ofusing plastic compounds for encapsulation or coating of electronic circuitry are discussed with respect to cooling. The basic thermal mechanisms are presented. It is concluded that encapsulation or coating can significantly improve the cooling of small compact circuitry not employing direct metallic conduction paths or direct forced convection."
"Vibration slip tables have been developed by the testing industry to provide a means of vibrating new products and equipment in the horizontal planes, while the item under test is positioned in its normal stance. The slip tables described in this paper are oil-lubricated by a continuous oil pressure system, which permits maximum efficiency of the equipment. A number of tests have been run on the tables to determine the response characteristics of the table. From these, data curves have been generated to show the table response at various frequencies in terms of transmissibility."
"This paper describes the development and capabilities of an engineering data processing system. It is a system specifically tailored to the requirements of engineering design and manufacturing technical data. The system functions with a minimum of data input from the engineer. This basic data is processed to perform design analysis and standards checking. Design documentation, computation of fabrication requirements and documentation, computation of numerical control data for automated manufacturing equipment, and compilation of history records are also system features. The system serves as a data communications and information retrieval facility. Convenient procedures and computer routines provide for design changes and incorporate new engineering features."
"This paper determines natural frequencies, responses and mode shapes used to calculate dynamic environmental inputs to electronic and electromechanical equipment in a missile,"
"Some firms engaged in the design or manufacture of electronic, electrical, or communications systems have been able to improve design while holding down costs by using highly sophisticated computers. However, the high fixed costs and relative inflexibility of computers make thier use impractical in many instances. In such cases the use of conventional punched card equipment can frequently offer advantages equal to or exceeding those available from computers. As compared to manual design procedures, punched cards can offer labor savings, reduction of design cycle time, improved design, greater accuracy of detail, and greater susceptibility to control. As compared to fully computerized design procedures, punched cards can offer substantially lower machine costs; minimization of heavy startup costs and time lags for programming and debugging; greater flexibility; and greater intelligibility. The system requires that a clerk or draftsman interpret a logic schematic drawing into controlled punched card input format. All subsequent processing is essential mechanical. Final output of the system consists of a file of punched cards, each completely descriptive of a single wire; and listings of these cards in various sequences. The cards are available to prepare additional listings, and for the documentation and control of changes; the lists are used for manufacture, inspection, system test, maintenance, etc."
"The Universal Communications Transistor is a device that can operatie predictably, uniformly and adequately in a wide variety of applications at the most important frequencies for communication service. This device should be priced so that the overall cost of the transistor complement in the particular communication equipment is competitive with the cost of a complement of functionally tested devices. A description of the Post Alloy Diffused Transistor (PADT) technique which results in the device characteristics is given. Closely defined characteristics specifying all the information needed by the designer at the most important frequencies are described. The ability of the transistor and its characterization to define the operation under wide conditions of application, circuit environment and operating conditions is given. A 173-Mc mobile communication transceiver as well as a high quality 100-mw Citizens Band transceiver are also described."
"In electronic packages where high voltages exist, a high dielectric strength environment surrounding the components is necessary. Liquid-filled units have used various oils which in addition to dielectric strength provide good thermal paths for cooling; evaporative-cooled units often use refrigerants. In either case allowance, volume-wise, must be made for thermal expansion of the fluid. A simple, novel, weight-saving technique for accomplishing this consists essentially of replacing the conventional container with a flexible one (for example, fabric-reinforced rubber). The flexible container then expands and contracts accomodating volume variations in the fluid. Design details, test results, and a general evaluation illustrating the adaptability of the flexible container as a practical design tool are discussed."
"A study of the causes of scaling in klystron collectors indicates that the scale formation can be reduced or prevented by proper design of the cooling system. The keystone of the design is to keep oxygen and carbon dioxide out of the coolant with a purificationloop. Distilled water is the preferred coolant in most cases. If an antifreeze is required, the coolant should be a mixture of uninhibited ethylene glycol and water."
"With the rapidly expanding use of stored energy equipment in the welded module field and the increasing demands for process reliability, it is important that the equipment possess a high degree of output predictability and consistency from one machine to another. This paper discusses the present status of expected equipment performance, and how this performance can be related to process reliability. It covers quality assurance goals and manufacturing test procedures as well as recommended customer test methods to insure a high confidence level."
"The author described several documents of a series of Process Control Specifications and Materials Standards for welded electronics assembly (five in all), which are being used by Sippican and its clients. They are available to the welded packaging industry. The first is Preweld Evaluation which includes selection of the weld head to be used, qualitative analysis of materials, previous weld history, and such factors as resistance, melting point, compatibility, etching techniques and electrode selection. The second part of the process is a First Approximation, where a series of sample weldments are made at predetermined increments of energy and force over the entire range in which adhesion takes place. These are recorded on a plot which shows the apparent weld point and marginal points. Next, a Second Approximation is made, using smaller increments of energy and force. This defines the extreme limits of combinations where good welds can be obtained for the materials involved. A second diagram is made which indicates the area to be used for preparation of a Search Sample. The latter permits a metallographic evaluation to be made of the weld settings obtained by the Second Approximation, and further verifies these settings. The fifth procedure, Analytic Sampling, specifies that a prescribed number of identical samples be made at the optimum and marginal points selected earlier. Standard metallographic analysis procedures, manual destruction tests, visual inspection and pull tests are used to evaluate the Analytical Samples. In conjunction with pull testing, Sippican developed a statistical analysis procedure for optimum validity and confidence level in production welding."
"The photoreed performs the functions of resonant reed relays and tuning-fork filters or oscillators. The photoreed evolved from combining resonant reed and photoelectric principles, i.e., the action of light on a suitable photosensor to regulate the current through the photosensor and its load circuit. The photosensor is exposed to the light when the reed, acting as a shutter, vibrates. No electrical contacts are required. The design criteria and performance data of the photoreed are discussed for each circuit function. The photoreed has superior performance, flexibility and versatility when compared with conventional resonant reed relays."
"The status of microminiaturization is summarized under the following three headings: 1) assembly of pretested conventional or specially designed component parts, 2) printing or vapor deposition of multicomponent assemblies on fiat insulating substrates, and 3) preparation of complete circuits from a solid block of semiconductor material. Under the first heading, assembly of parts in three-dimensional (3-D) soldered structures, in 3-D welded structures, in imitation 2-D-type structures, and in structures of disciplined geometry is briefly described. The latter structures now include not only the Micro-module but also new pelletized parts. Under the second heading, the original 2-D thin-film type of construction is briefly summarized and then the evolution of this system into experimental circuits containing all thin-film passive parts is shown. The logical next step, preparation of circuits conraining thin-film active as well as passive parts, is in even earlier stages of research. Under the third heading, new developments in integrated and functional circuits are presented. The trend of current work points to the conclusion that equipment available commercially in the next decade will probably take the form of hybrid structures comprising both individually fabricated parts, and single-process parts arrays, all mounted or processed onto an insulating substrate."
"This is the second in a series of four articles designed to provide ready information to workers in the field of molecular electronics. Fifteen additional solid-state phenomena and physical effects are described. Each of these phenomena belongs to a group whose effects depend either upon the transport of electrons and holes or upon the band structure of the material."
"This paper is devoted to the device properties of the negative-impedance converter (NIC), the derivation of potential NIC circuits and their compensation in order to achieve an exact NIC. The behavior of the NIC as a function of frequency and means of extending its useful frequency range are presented. Attention is also devoted to the sensitivity of the NIC to variations in active and passive parameter values and to means of reducing the sensi- tivity."
"A method is described for combining two transformers and supplementary network elements in a class of wideband impedance-matching networks whose over-all bandwidth in octaves is essentially the sum of those of the two component transformers. One transformer transmits the high-frequency portion of the required operating range and is relieved of the low-frequency requirements, while the other transformer transmits the complementary low-frequency range. Thus the composite network characteristic is all-pass over a very large frequency band. The basic network has a group-delay characteristic which is non fiat over the band-pass region; it is shown how additional all-pass sections may improve this characteristic. An experimental coupling network exhibits an extension in frequency response by about a factor of 40 over that obtainable with the low-frequency transformer alone."
"Some suggestions are made for further developments in the field of electrolytic capacitors using etched aluminum foils and solid electrolytes. Various laboratory-tested construction procedures are discussed in detail. The behavior of capacity, dissipation factor, and leakage is illustrated as the function of temperature and frequency during storage with and without current. It is shown that the production of aluminum electrolytic capacitors with commercially available etched foils and solid electrolytes will be entirely feasible in the near future. In conclusion, the optimal data found so far in a series of experiments are reported, pointing the way toward results that may reasonably be expected from further investigations."
"With today's high performance magnetic materials, the pulse transformer designer has advantages not previously obtainable for reducing size. These advantages are further implemented by improved methods of dissipating losses, which hitherto have prevented substantial size reductions. In order to employ these advantages to their fullest, toroidal cores with reset bias are used. For example, at 7.5 megawatts peak power, or 15 kilowatts average power, it is possible to reduce transformer weight from 105 pounds to 22 pounds. This is achieved by using the best known core material, the most efficient cooling and a reset core together. Proportionate size reduction is possible in smaller ratings, and is of particular importance in transportable radar: on land, sea or in space."
"This is the third in a series of four articles describing solid-state phenomena. Twelve solid-state phenomena and physical effects are provided. All of the twelve phenomena belong to a group which includes effects related to the dielectric properties of materials and transport phenomena for particles other than electrons or holes."
"The theory of the operation of the controlled superconductor as a linear amplifier is briefly described. The relationship between constants which describe the physical operation of the controlled superconductor and the small-signal parameters of the device are developed, and the optimization of the small-signal parameters in terms of the geometry of the device is discussed. The current gain expressions of linear amplifiers in two circuit connections are presented and the conditions necessary for the optimization of these gains are also derived."
"The nonreciprocal behavior of certain types of linear passive systems is explained by employing the ideal gyrator as a network element. The pertinent network properties of passive nonreciprocal systems are developed, with particular attention being paid to the passive isolator. Actual examples of passive low-frequency gyrators and isolators are shown in the form of Hall effect devices and magneto-electrodynamic transducers."
"Three-channel passive circulators may be constructed about antireciprocal twoports whose parameters obey the restriction (Re Y11) (Re Y22) < (Re Y12)2. The characteristics of such circulators are derived in terms of the network parameters of the antireciprocal twoport. Expressions are presented for the required terminations, the driving-point admittances, and the transducer gain of the circulator. Experimental data is presented on circulators constructed about the electromechanical gyrator. The agreement between the calculated and the experimental performance is very good. The electromechanical circulator, an inexpensive and readily fabricated device, has applications in communications and in various instrumentation."
"The optimum design of a class of toroidal resonators which are capacitively loaded and therefore short in wavelengths is considered. The possibility of including magnetic cores with various types of air gaps is included and it is shown that below a certain critical size, which is a function of the magnetic merit factor, the net Q may be improved with the optimum material and the optimum air gap. Even without magnetic cores these resonators obtain a higher Q per unit volume than any other known electrical resonator."
"This is the fourth in a series of articles dealing with phenomena of the solid state. Nineteen solid-state phenomena and physical effects are described. This group of phenomena includes primarily the resonance effects, that is, those effects which can be described in terms of discrete energy levels rather than energy bands."
"A general discussion of a wire-coupled crystal mechanical filter and its problem on the design and fabrication is followed by a detailed description of transducer-coupler-transducer system named the two-element type, which is the simplest construction of electromechanical filters. This filter is composed of quartz crystals as the transducers and resonators and fine wires as the couplers. The theoretical possibilities of this construction are discussed by the longitudinal-vibration type and its nature is examined by the several experiments. Then, a filtering characteristic of a flexural-vibration type filter is illustrated as an example of filters constructed by the other vibration modes. The limits of usuable frequency ranges are approximately from 10 to 1000 kc in view of their fabrication easiness and the preferred fractional bandwidths are from 0.05 to 3 per cent."
"The performance of an inductor is often significantly compromised by the combined effects of series resistance and distributed capacitance. For a given inductance value and coil configuration, it is always possible to vary the absolute size and/or turns count so as to reduce one residual parameter at the expense of an increase in the other. The ratio M = L/RC2is unaffected by these transformations and is proposed as a figure of merit characterizing the particular coil design. Measurements of M for sample coils of a number of commonly used types are given; they provide lower limits to the performance attainable with available magnetic materials."
"The performance of an inductor is often significantly compromised by the combined effects of series resistance and distributed capacitance. For a given inductance value and coil configuration, it is always possible to vary the absolute size and/or turns count so as to reduce one residual parameter at the expense of an increase in the other. The ratio M = L/RC2is unaffected by these transformations and is proposed as a figure of merit characterizing the particular coil design. Measurements of M for sample coils of a number of commonly used types are given; they provide lower limits to the performance attainable with available magnetic materials."
"Processes and techniques required for fabrication of experimental planar p-n-p silicon transistors have been developed and demonstrated as feasible. Processes involved include material preparation, antimony base diffusion, boron emitter diffusion, oxide masking, photoresist techniques, simultaneous gold metalizing of emitter and base regions, collector alloy contact and basing and thermocompression bonding. Initial transistors have typical dc Beta values of 35 to 40 and FTvalues as high as 250 Mc. Processes described have also been used in preliminary fabrication of solid-state microcircuit passive components."
"An analysis has been made and a design procedure established for fuses other than those using round wire and with, or without, a restricted cross section for part of the fuse length. Fuses of restricted section are, however, the major interest since they may be used to give different current/time characteristics by varying their dimensions. These different characteristics may be predicted accurately by the method indicated in the paper. In all the cases of semienclosed tin-strip fuses investigated in this way very close agreement between predicted and experimental results has been obtained."
"In a previous paper the authors dealt with the case of semienclosed fuses, manufactured from uniform thin strip or with single or double discontinuities in their cross sections. An analytical solution for the time/current characteristic of such fuses was shown to exist, which was in very close correlation with experimental derivations of the same characteristics. This work has now been extended in two ways. First, the analytical derivation of fuse characteristic has been extended to cases of fuses with n discontinuities in their cross sections, where n > 2; this work was carried out with the aim of investigating the full range of alternative characteristics available from such fuses. Secondly, and the most important part of the work, has been the extension of the solution obtained for a semienclosed fuse to fuses of similar metallic construction but immersed in oil or enclosed in a silica-type filler. Having established a method and form of solution, a substantial amount of computation is necessary in any one case; in order to facilitate computation, a simple form of transient analog computer has been used, and is described in the paper. In the case of fuses immersed in oil or enclosed in silica-type filler, the main problems have been to establish the parameters of heat transfer prior to finding a form of solution of the relevant equations. The Appendixes contain representative Tables of results in the form in which they were obtained from the analog computer, and an analysis showing the feasibility of establishing a single series of Tables of analog-computer results for fuses with multiple discontinuities in cross-section."
"Numerous forms of solution for the electrothermal equations of fuses, together with various methods for establishing the parameters of these equations, have been attempted. Following earlier work on the analytical determination of the characteristics of semienclosed oil-immersed fuses and short fuses enclosed in silica or quartz filler, a new method has been established for the solution of long cartridge fuses. This new method is simple and based on a tabular technique derived for the work of Jaeger and Newstead on the transient heating of buried cables. The paper gives a brief treatment of the heat equations for a fuse and indicates the point of departure from the method previously adopted by Guile. The method of solution is indicated and tabular solutions are given for three particular cases of fuse elements of different cross sections. The predicted and experimentally determined time/current characteristics are shown to be in close agree- ment."
"An equivalent circuit is described for the three-winding transformer which is similar in form to the classical equivalent T of the two-winding transformer. As in the equivalent T, the performance of the circuit shown can be visualized and the elements of the circuit can usually be related to specific transformer constants. It is shown that the circuit is also exact."
"This paper supplements an earlier report which describes a recommended standard resistor-noise test system. It treats the nature and the magnitude of the errors associated with the use of the test system. The sources and types of errors are discussed for different operating procedures. Means are provided in summary form for estimating accuracy of current-noise measurements under a broad range of operating conditions."
"This paper is a review of the properties of the more important piezoelectric materials. Section I discusses the basic principles of the phenomena of piezoelectricity and elasticity from the standpoint of crystal physics. Section II is a brief account of the electrical measurements of piezoelectric vibrators which are required to determine the basic parameters defining the piezoelectric, elastic and dielectric properties of the material. Sections III and IV, respectively, give the properties of a range of piezoelectric crystals and ceramics including, in the most important cases, some of the derived properties which affect the use of the materials in practical devices. It is concluded that it is unlikely that new piezoelectric crystals will be found to replace those in use at present for frequency control and selection but that there is greater scope for new piezoelectric ceramics for use as electromechanical transducers or as frequency selective elements where the highest stability is not required."
"A plasma in the absence of dc magnetic fields is representable, from the electromagnetic viewpoint, as a lossy dielectric with a complex index of refraction whose real part is less than one. Its electrical properties, such as propagation constant and intrinsic impedance, can be simulated by microwave structures, such as artificial dielectrics of lossy metallic rods, and byH- plane parallel-plate guides. Design techniques are presented for application to the modeling of plasma media. Examples include problems of radiation from antennas on a plasma-coated ground plane, with magnetic line sources and electric aperture radiators simulated by parallel-plate guides and rodded media, respectively. Radiation patterns of these models show good agreement with established theory. Waveguide measurements on the rodded media also confirm the expected propagation and impedance characteristics."
"Theoretical and experimental studies have been made of the performance of a microwave horn terminated in a ground plane overlain by a plasma layer. The purpose was the determination of the effect of the plasma layer on the radiation pattern of the horn. Electron currents in the plasma were calculated on the basis of the assumption that a plane wavefront emanated from the mouth of the horn. The radiation from the horn was considered to be due to a magnetic current sheet that covered the horn aperture. The electron currents and the magnetic currents together were considered to constitute the source currents of an antenna. The experimental program consisted of measuring the influence of a transient gaseous discharge and afterglow on the radiation pattern of a horn. The operating frequency was 9745 Mc. The results indicate a diversion of energy to the off-axis region, as compared to the pattern of the horn in free space. The effect is significant for electron densities of the order of one-tenth of the critical electron density, for the geometry employed. The study is of value in considering the problem of communicating with a hypersonic vehicle during the re-entry phase."
"Propagation of waves in a compressible, isotropic, collisionless electron plasma is studied. Optical and acoustic modes of propagation are examined in detail. Scattering and guiding properties of a plane interface between free space and plasma are investigated. It is found that electromagnetic energy in theory can be completely converted into plasma waves. A surface wave is found whose properties are affected slightly by the compressibility for(\\omega_{p}/\\omega) > \\sqrt{2}. In contrast to the case of purely dielectric plasma, this surface wave has no high-frequency cutoff. Formal expressions for electromagnetic and acoustic fields excited by a magnetic line source in free space, parallel to the interface, are obtained."
"A study of the near field of a magnetic line source located inside an isotropic plasma layer reveals, in addition to a weakly-excited space wave, strongEmode complex waves corresponding to poles in the integral representation of the field solution. Under these conditions, the radiation field may be calculated by means of a Kirchhoff-Huygens integration over the pole contributions in the near field. This result is in excellent agreement with the accurate steepest-descent evaluation whenever the complex waves are dominant. Depending on its location in the steepest-descent plane, each pole contributes either a broad peak at broadside or a sharp peak at an oblique angle. In the frequency range in which the plasma is opaque, the complex waves are spectral and yield a single radiation peak at broadside, and with small power. Also, surface waves may be present and contribute to the far field located near the plasma-air interface. When the plasma is transparent only leaky waves exist, the strongest of which accounts for a sharp major peak that closely corresponds to the critical angle obtained by geometrical optics. The weaker leaky waves may yield additional but minor peaks, or contribute at broadside only. The more practical case of a distributed source is also treated. Its solution is shown to be obtainable directly from that for the line source; the expression for the radiation pattern is then given by the product of the line source solution and that for the source distribution in the absence of the plasma layer."
"The design of an inverted coaxial plasma diode is discussed in considerable detail. The RF transmission and reflection measurements of a 15-cm-long diode are presented and compared with a preliminary theory. An attempt is made to account for the electron collision with the walls."
"Radio-frequency effects arising from motions of the electrons and ions in plasmas are reviewed. Starting with cases of simple straight line orbits, the relationship between theory and experiment is cited in regard to wave dispersion, damping, amplification, and radiation. Circular and spiral orbits as well as linear and drifting-linear vibration orbits are considered. These examples show the common properties that linear drifting can produce damping or amplification while periodicities or near periodicities produce radiative coupling. The insight thus gained leads to some concluding remarks concerning more general orbits."
"This paper presents a unified development of kinetic equations describing particle and photon transport in plasmas. The development proceeds deductively from a conventional quantum field theoretic formulation of electrodynamics, albeit via many approximations-many of which are largely untested. It is found that the equations for the particle distributions are a generalization to the plasma of the equations postulated by Uehling and Uhlenbeck for neutral quantum gases. These equations reduce to the usual Boltzmann equation with self-consistent fields in the classical limit. Similarly it is found that the kinetic equation for the photons is a slightly generalized version of a low-energy limit of the equation deduced by Foldy for the description of the propagation of\\gamma-rays in matter. The generalization consists in showing that the photons propagate between events in the plasma with a group velocity which is in general different fromcand in the retention of the influence of the density of photons and particles in final states upon emission and scattering processes so that the appropriate thermodynamic solutions are readily demonstrable."
"Starting with the Boltzmann equation and the dynamic equation of a charged particle, we develop a transport (particle) model for the plasma, as well as an orbit (guiding-center) model which is valid for arbitrarily large orbits. The development facilitates the interpretation of the difference between the two models, and sets the stage for the derivation of the conditions under which the two become interchangeable. These conditions include restrictions on the particle distribution and on the field gradients. The role of each model in the formulation of the self-consistent-field problem in the plasma is discussed."
"The interaction of a high-intensity EM field with a low-density plasma, including a collisionless plasma and a weakly ionized gas, is considered. The electron velocity distribution function is obtained exactly from a Boltzmann equation in each case without making any small perturbation approximation. The electron velocity distribution function obtained gives rise to significant results for some plasma parameters as functions of the intensity of EM field. It is also shown that conventional results for the small field case can be obtained from the results presented in this paper."
"The electrical conductivity of a fully ionized gas is analyzed based on the Fokker-Planck equation. It is found to have nonlinear characteristics if the impressed electric field is not restricted to be very small. The electrical conductivity of both dc and ac cases is investigated and the critical conditions are discussed. A convenient way of obtaining an approximate conductivity is also presented."
"Radiation from a magnetic line source in a ground plane covered by an anisotropic lossy plasma layer is considered. A magnetostatic field is impressed parallel to the slab and normal to the source. Expressions are obtained by Fourier analysis and the stationary phase procedure for the far-field components of both radiating modes. Numerical results are given for the uniaxial plasma without losses. It is shown that in this case pattern maxima and minima are directly related to ordinary transmission-line reflection conditions expressed in terms of a \"transverse-wavelength.\""
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper describes the application of Bethe's small-aperture theory and leaky-wave antenna theory to the design of planar arrays of rectangular waveguides radiating through small apertures arranged periodically in their broad walls. Such arrays can be designed to have any polarization, including circular, by suitable selection of the shape and orientation of the small apertures. These arrays have narrow beamwidths, and scan with frequency in a plane normal to the broad walls of the waveguides. A circularly polarized array atX-band was designed, and a single-wavegnide section of it was built to test the practicality of the design."
"An algorithm is formulated to describe the construction of arrays whose individual antenna elements are to be distributed nonuniformly over an aperture. From the distribution to which the algorithm is equivalent, a distribution of array factor values is inferred. It is also shown how the individual array factor values may be statistically described when the element placement is statistically described. An array of antenna elements can be nonuniformly distributed so as to produce an array factor with a single major lobe from one-fourth the elements required by a uniform distribution at a sacrifice of 5 db in sidelobe level and no sacrifice in main beamwidth."
"Optimum broadside arrays with constant spacings, i.e., Dolph-Tchebycheff arrays, use relatively many elements and are often difficult to realize in practice due to mutual coupling effects. To overcome these disadvantages a variety of arrays with widely and variably spaced elements have been designed using both analog and digital computer techniques. These arrays all have many fewer elements than Dolph-Tchebycheff arrays with the same beamwidth and sidelobe level. One of the arrays designed has 21 elements and is 76 wavelengths long when used as a broadside array. The 3-db beamwidth is 0.74 degree, the sidelobe level -7.4 db. The array has perfect steerability in a 1.8:1 bandwidth with no interelement spacing smaller than one-half wavelength in this band. A Dolph-Tchebycheff array with the same beamwidth and sidelobe level uses 53 elements, and the steerability is not perfect even at a single frequency."
"This paper describes the design and measured performance of an antenna made up of an array of dielectric-loaded rectangular waveguides with common narrow walls. Longitudinal slots are cut in the center of each broad wall. The preferred form of this antenna uses a slab of dielectric placed over all the slots, although it can operate when dielectric is placed within each guide. An approximate theory is discussed, and empirical design data are presented from which an experimental model of this antenna is designed. Empirical data are also given for cases in which dielectric is placed inside the waveguides. The radiatedHfield from this antenna is parallel to the antenna aperture, and the main beam is directed up from the aperture at an angle equal to the arc cosine of the velocity of light divided by the slotted-waveguide phase velocity. An experimental antenna, constructed using standard 0.900- by 0.400 in waveguide, had an aperture 9 in wide by 20 in long. The antenna was fed from a hog horn, which yielded an approximately sinusoidalHplane illumination over the 9-in aperture width. The slot width was varied over the 20 in length to obtain a Taylor aperture distribution yielding a theoretical radiation pattern with -25.5- dbE-plane sidelobes and with a5.4\\degbeamwidth. At the design frequency of 10 kMc, theE-plane andH-plane beamwidths were 5.4 and 8.0 degrees, respectively, and theE-plane andH-plane first sidelobe levels were -22.0 db and -23 db, respectively. Good radiation patterns were obtained from 8 to 11 kMc."
"This paper presents the theory of180\\degscanning for a linear array and Tchebycheff array by frequency variation and discusses the relationships between the linear array theory and the\\omega-\\betadiagram of periodic structures. Each element is excited by a slow-wave structure which is either nondispersive or dispersive. At a center frequency, the spacing is an integral multiple of guide wavelengthM\\lambda_{c}. It is shown that this is in fact the -Mth space harmonic in the so-called forbidden region, and all the other harmonics are slow. For a given frequency range, the necessary phase velocity and other parameters are determined in order to obtain180\\degscanning without causing other main beams, and the example is carried out for theX-band frequency range."
"This paper presents a method for computing the mutual impedance between any two linear center-fed antennas having sinusoidal current distributions. This method, which is very conducive to digital computer application, is not limited in terms of the lengths or of the relative geometrical configuration of the antennas involved. The method has been used to compute data which have been checked with both published and experimental data for various parallel, echelon, and skew cases. The results of many of these calculations are given."
"Directional properties of a complete radiometer are becoming more dependent on the electronics combined with the antenna, so that techniques of linear signal analysis are becoming part of antenna design."
"The response of nonlinear data-processing antenna arrays are evaluated for multiple target situations. These situations involve targets of various relative strengths and angular separations. The evaluation is carried out both analytically and graphically, and the results obtained are compared to the performance of a linear array."
"In this paper nonlinear correlation antennas are reexamined in terms of coherence theory. Particular emphasis is given to an antenna system consisting of the correlation of the outputs of two arbitrary antennas. It is shown that such a system operates in a linear fashion for an extended incoherent source. In fact, a fiat spatial frequency response for this system can be obtained when, in particular, one antenna is a continuous array with a uniformly illuminated aperture, while the other is a simple interferometer."
"In this paper a new method of analysis for the far zone radiation pattern of the antenna with modulated aperture field is developed. The result of the conventional method is in terms of an infinite series of Bessel and sinu/ufunctions and is not suitable for the prediction of sidelobes, beamwidth and the effect of various parameters. The purpose of our new method is to avoid the above disadvantages by writing the radiation pattern in simple closed form involving only the Anger function times a simple periodic modifying function. Using this method, the relationship between the aperture field parameters and the radiation pattern is clear. The type of modulation considered is cosinusoidal amplitude across the aperture and sinusoidal phase modulation across the aperture. The case of constant amplitude is discussed in detail and is applied to the modulated slow wave structure. The end of the visible region is chosen at the second peak of the total radiation function and the endfire pattern is considered in detail in terms of fundamental slow wave speed, and the magnitude, sign, and frequency of the phase modulation. Conditions are derived for excitation phase velocity, magnitude of phase modulation and the tilted main beam."
"Experimental studies on the effects of the profile of a dominant obstacle on the diffraction of electromagnetic waves are described. A comparison of the distribution of diffracted power behind triangular (both symmetrical and nonsymmetrical) knife edges and semicircular knife edges shows some important practical features. In contrast to the case of a horizontal obstacle, the transverse profile of the triangular obstacle determines the optimum receiving site and relatively small changes in receiver location can result in substantial changes in received power. On the other hand, the semicircular knife edge can be adequately described in terms of a rectangular (180\\deg) knife edge. In no case is an effect on the far field due to the polarization of the incident fields apparent."
"The cylindricalLy capped bi-wedge is an arrangement of two perfectly conducting wedges, apex to apex and exactly opposing; it is truncated by a cylinder whose axis is the apex of the biwedge. A line source at the apex excites this geometry. To find the radiation properties of this configuration the corresponding boundary-value problem is solved. Truncating the bi-wedge by a cylinder defines two regions-the interior and the exterior. The fields in the interior and exterior region are given by appropriate series expansions which are solutions to Maxwell's equations. A relationship between the coefficients of the two fields is obtained when thoe fields are matched across the aperture. A set of infinite simultaneous equations is generated. These can be solved for the coefficients to which special summation techniques have been applied to make a truncation of the infinite matrix valid. The radiated field of a bi-wedge is then expressed as a series with unknown coefficients. These can now be calculated by solving a set of finite simultaneous equations. A bi-wedge in the resonance region was chosen to illustrate this procedure. The computations forka = \\pi/2were performed and the far-field radiation patterns plotted for various wedge angles. The limiting cases of the Rayleigh region, the thin bi-wedge, and the bi-wedge when the angle\\theta_{0}approaches\\pi/2are then analyzed. It is found that for the thin and the very thick bi-wedge the matrix decouples, and the field can be given exactly for these two limiting cases. Furthermore, it was found that the simple formulas of the two limiting cases could be extended to give usable results for other angles, thereby avoiding a solution of the infinite matrix."
"Three general theorems giving conditions for a radiating system to exhibit stationary polarization, stationary gain and the coincidence of stationary polarization and gain in a prescribed direction are presented. A necessary and sufficient condition for the polarization invariance of a circularly-polarized radiator is derived. The theorems are applied to a number of circularly-polarized sources and antennas which are broadly directional. The polarization change with respect to aspect for the radiators possessing a direction of stationary polarization at the pattern maximum is small; however, in the case of the helix, whose pattern maximum is not in the direction of stationary polarization, the change is comparatively large. The polarization variation which occurs when those antennas are used as the elements of an array or the primary feed of a reflector is considered."
"Steerable antenna arrays in the HF range differ from those employed at higher frequencies in that they are enormous in size. A wide variety of phasing methods to form the desired steerable antenna pattern have been designed or proposed. These systems, which feature a common phasing center for all elements of the array, require expensive cabling from the individual antenna element to the phasing center. An electronic phasing system which operates by remote control would allow the distribution of the phasing matrix over the entire array, and would not only bring about substantial cable savings, but would also increase the flexibility of the antenna design by the introduction of novel design parameters. A description is given of such a system which consists of continuously-controlled phase shifters, generators to control the phase shifters, and an analog computing method to determine the correct phase shifts for the individual elements. This steering method, developed for scanning and positioning the beam of an antenna array in the direction of an incident ray, can also be applied to adjust the polarization plane of the antenna. By combining the two systems, further improvements in long range radio communications can be expected."
"An approximate theoretical study of a sandwich-wire antenna is presented. The two outer conductors are in parallel and the center conductor is bent into triangular form with a period equal to the wavelength. The attenuation constant is obtained. The radiation pattern of an array consisting of a number of sandwich-wire antennas is evaluated. The theoretical results are compared with the existing experimental data."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The scalar radiation problem is considered for sources lying on a surface of arbitrary shape. An optimum directional pattern is specified and the source distribution which gives rise to the optimum pattern is determined in terms of the Green's function for the surface. The optimum source distribution is found to be proportional to the complex conjugate of the Green's function evaluated at the beam pointing coordinates and to lie in a region enclosed by an equimagnitude curve of this function, Examples are included for sources on planes and spheres."
"The electric field produced by the dc current between two spheres is calculated and expressed in terms of input power. The attenuation between these spheres and a pair of receiving spheres considered as a four terminal network is found to beP_{2}/P_{1} = l_{1}^{2}l_{2}^{2}a_{1}a_{2}/16r^{6}, wherea_{1}is the radius of the transmitting spheres separated by a distancel_{1}apart,a_{2}is the radius of the receiving spheres separated by a distancel_{2}, andris the distance between transmitter and receiver all in the same units. This equation applies when the line joining the receiving spheres is parallel to the line joining the transmitting spheres and perpendicular to the direction of propagation. For colinear spheres,P_{2}/P_{1}is four times as great but other factors combine to counteract this apparent advantage. The transient responses to a unit step and a unit pulse are calculated and presented as curves. The minimum practical pulse duration for the former configuration ist_{0} = \\sigma\\mu r^{2}/8, where\\sigmais the conductivity and\\muthe permeability all in inks units. A pulse of the same length is more smeared in the colinear direction and reduced in amplitude by a factor of approximately three, and power by a factor of nine more than counteracting the favorable factor of four for the steady-state condition for colinear spheres."
"A maser receiving system may have higher noise contributions from the antenna and transmission line than from the amplifier. To develop lower-noise receiving systems, it therefore is important to know the antenna and transmission-line noise temperature as well as the receiver noise temperature. Several techniques for the measurement of absolute antenna noise temperature have been tested at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). Experiments have been conducted at 960 and 2388 Mc using an 85-ft paraboloidal reflector with several antenna feed configurations. At 2388 Mc, an antenna noise temperature of15\\degK has been attained with an efficient antenna feed."
"The properties of surface waves guided by an uncoated cylinder of finite conductivity (Sommerfeld wave) or by a perfectly conducting cylinder with a dielectric coating (Goubau wave) have been analyzed theoretically for frequencies in the millimeter and submillimeter wavelength regions. Previous analysis by Goubau for lower frequencies provided the primary basis for this investigation. For wire sizes which provide low loss propagation above about 100 kMc, the approximations used by earlier workers are not sufficiently accurate to provide useful results. More accurate solutions for some of the properties have been obtained for wires of circular cross section by the use of fewer or different approximations. Numerical values have been calculated for attenuation, power-handling ability, and radial extent of the region of principal power flow. The results show that above 70 kMc the significant field extent is reasonable and the attenuation may be orders of magnitude smaller than for rectangular waveguide. Consideration was also given to the problem of surface-wave propagation on wires of elliptical cross section, but in this case the solutions for the field components must normally be expressed in the form of infinite series of products of the radial and angular Mathieu functions. Numerical results are therefore extremely difficult to obtain for elliptical wires."
"An improved method is described for establishing a factor of merit for an airborne HF transmitting system, taking into account both the transmitter power and the antenna radiation patterns at different frequencies. A large number of communication events are postulated, having different path lengths, directions, geographic locations, and times of occurrence. Some of these events are successful while others are not, depending on the calculated SNR at the receiver sites. The factor of merit is defined as the ratio of the number or successful events to the total number of events postulated. A graph of the factor of merit of a particular system as a function of the transmitter power can be used as a guide in effecting a reasonable compromise between power economy and system performance. Graphs based on two or more antennas can be used to compare the antennas in terms of the relative powers required for a given system factor of merit or in terms of the relative factors of merit obtained with a given power."
"Approximate expressions are obtained for the magnetic field induced by slots on conducting circular cylinders of infinite length and of radius large compared to the signal wavelength. The approximations are derived from the formal solution of the cylinder problem and are valid for all distances from the slot. The expression for a short slot dipole, at any orientation, is expressed in terms of the field of the slot on a flat conducting sheet multiplied by a curvature term. The latter is a function of the \"ray path\" length and radius of curvature, making the results applicable to other convex surfaces. Corresponding expressions for half wavelength axial and transverse slots are also obtained and the results compared with experimental measurements."
"The complex refractive index of a magneto-ionic medium for various directions of propagation is evaluated graphically. Most of the constructions make use of a Smith Chart on which the scales have been suitably relabeled. When the directions of propagation are longitudinal or transverse with respect to the applied magnetic field, the constructions take the losses into account. The energy transferred to the medium is characterized by conductivity coefficients that are also evaluated graphically. An overlay converts the refractive index into the reflection coefficient at a plane boundary of the medium. The indexes for propagation at an arbitrary angle with respect to the magnetic field are evaluated similarly, provided the collision frequency is very low."
"Results of a study of the Soviet Bloc literature on the various forms of scatter propagation are presented. Backscatter and meteor scatter are included along with tropospheric and ionospheric scatter. The theoretical work is emphasized, since it is presented more fully in the available literature, and since hardware development appears to be lagging behind theoretical study. It is concluded that the Soviet Bloc has a vigorous well-organized program to explore the potentialities of these forms of propagation."
"The usual HF prediction is based on MUF, maximum usable frequencies, alone. More detailed predictions include LUF, lowest usable high frequency, calculations which indicate the lowest frequency at which the receiver threshold is exceeded at least 50 per cent of the time. The optimum HF prediction presented in this paper provides contours of the probability of successful HF transmission as a function of frequency and time of day. This contour presentation now provides a detailed means for efficient HF spectrum utilization, giving a probability number to any assigned frequency at a given time of day which can be compared to any other available channel probability."
"Scattering error in an interferometer-angle-measuring system is investigated theoretically and numerically. The model employed consists of four identical base-loaded vertical antennas erected at the corners of a square. The assumption is made that the earth is a perfectly conducting plane of infinite extent. Curves are supplied for the error angle as a function of antenna spacing, with azimuth angle of wave arrival as parameter. The incident electric field is vertically polarized. These data were computed for quarter-wave vertical elements having a length-to-radius ratio of 122.35 and for base-load resistors of 12.5, 50, 200 and 500 ohms. A brief résumé of the theory of the two-element ratio interferometer is presented, together with a numerical analysis when quarter-wave antennas are employed having a length-to-radius ratio of 74.21 and for the same values of base loads."
"The transient response of straight wires and circular loops when short pulses are applied is studied experimentally and theoretically. It is shown that the initial response is always that of an infinitely long antenna at a frequency near the upper limit of the frequencies contained in the pulse provided this is sufficiently short so that the first reflection from the end of the wire or loop is not superimposed on it."
"The requirements for high-data rates in modem weapons systems favor the use of phased arrays for monopulse tracking antennas. A discussion is presented of the tracking errors produced by the phase and amplitude errors in the excitation function of a phased array. Both systematic and random phase errors are considered. The effects of both scan and aperture correlation of the random errors is discussed. Even when off-boresight tracking is performed, boresight errors were found to be the predominant tracking error."
"The power spectra of amplitude and slope for several cases of internal waves on a radio refractive layer are shown and the implication of these waves for radio and radar coverage is discussed. The angular reflection patterns are derived for rough layers and the beamwidths in elevation and azimuth are obtained. The amplitude, frequency, wavelength and velocity of atmospheric waves are described, and the possibility of such waves acting as very rapidly moving reflectors is discussed. It is concluded on the basis of present observations of wavelength, amplitude, and phase velocity of atmospheric internal waves that they are not likely to be a source of very rapidly moving reflections such as were observed by Waterman at microwave frequencies."
"Procedures for calculating the propagation loss between antennas located near the surface of a smooth spherical earth of finite conductivity in the absence of an atmosphere have been known for many years. The increasing availability of high-speed computers suggests that the drudgery of such calculations can be eliminated, and more accurate and voluminous data made available. The equations and graphical aids developed in the past generally are not well adapted for use with computers. This report outlines methods whereby the field strength relative to free space can be calculated for the cases where the ionosphere is neglected and refraction in the troposphere is approximated by assuming an appropriate constant gradient of refractive index. Plane-earth methods are employed to determine the solution for short distances, and the residue series is used under conditions where the surface curvature is important. The input parameters are the horizontal distance, the antenna heights, the equivalent radius of the earth, the wavelength, and the dielectric constant and conductivity of the earth."
"A plane wave is considered to be incident obliquely on a dielectric layer whose permittivity is a function of distance from the plane surface. The field distribution and the transmission coefficient are obtained from step-by-step numerical integration. Since the calculations are simple and repetitive, the technique is suitable for both manual and automatic calculations. The method has been used successfully for lossy and lossless layers with perpendicular and parallel polarization. Some of the calculated field distributions are presented graphically. Only ten steps are required in the numerical integration for a typical half-wave inhomogeneous radome wall to obtain results accurate to within one per cent."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Geodesic lenses have been developed which give a collimated beam diametrically opposite the focal point and at an arbitrary angle relative to the plane of the lens rim. The lenses may have an arbitrary variation of the index of refraction; however, only the constant index lenses are considered in detail. Experimental results are in good agreement with the theory. The practical importance of these lenses is that as a result of their circular symmetry a lens antenna may scan a full360\\degby feed movement alone or simultaneous coverage in many directions may be accomplished by use of multiple feeds."
"It is the object of this investigation to measure the driving-point admittance, the amplitude distribution of the current, and the phase distribution of the current, relative to the phase at the driving-point for a dipole antenna immersed in a homogeneous conducting medium. Measurements of the driving-point admittance have been made for a range of values of the ratio\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}of the medium taking the electrical height of the antenna\\beta has a parameter. The ratio\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}is varied from\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}=0.036to\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r} \\epsilon_{0}=8.8and the antenna height\\beta his varied from\\beta h=0.1to2\\piat intervals of 0.1. The amplitude and phase distributions of the current have been measured for\\beta h = \\pi/2, 3\\pi/4, \\pi, and5/4\\piin a homogeneous conducting medium whose conductivity is varied from\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r} \\epsilon_{0}=0.036to\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}=8.8."
"Measurements are described of the driving-point admittance and the amplitude and phase distributions of the current for a half-wave dipole antenna immersed in a stratified medium for various gradientsSof the ratio\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}-\\epsilon_{0} = b+sx, where the origin of the coordinates is at the driving point of the dipole antenna and thexaxis is along the antenna. The study includes a description of the apparatus, a discussion of the effect of the nylon films separating the layers, and an interpretation of the data. Reference is made to the possible application of a half-wave dipole antenna to the detection of an inhomogeneity in a medium."
"Some fundamental results on radiation in anisotropic media have been worked out by F. V. Bunkin for the case of a gyro-electric (or plasma) medium using the technique of tensorial Green's function. He obtained asymptotic expressions for the far-zone radiation fields in a gyro-electric medium and therefore demonstrated actually the validity of Sommerfield's radiation condition for a gyro-electric medium. The present paper extends Bunkin s calculation to a case of a gyro-electric-magnetic medium and thus justifies the validity of Sommerfeld's radiation condition in a gyro-electric-magnetic medium."
"The plane-wave spectrum concept is used to derive an expression for the radiation pattern of an antenna in a two-dimensional system and an investigation is made of the effect of the aperture size of the measuring antenna on the pattern obtained. It is shown that measured sidelobe levels either above or below the far-field values may be obtained. Measurements of near-field antenna radiation patterns are carried out in a parallel-plate pattern range, and the predicted effects of measuring antennas of finite size on the beamwidth and sidelobe levels of the measured patterns are confirmed experimentally."
"The recent activity in electronically scanned arrays has stimulated interest in means of reducing both the quantities of elements required for a given size aperture and the number of different types of transmitters which would be necessary in an array using an illumination taper. One method of doing this is presented in this paper. The conventional amplitude tapered array is simulated by varying the spacing of equally excited elements, hence the name \"space tapering.\" Space tapered arrays with predictable gains, beamwidths, and sidelobe levels can readily be designed using graphical techniques and simple mathematics. Reduction in the number of elements of from 50 to 90 per cent for moderate and large size planar arrays are possible while retaining good pattern characteristics. Although only linear and circular planar arrays are discussed, the technique can be applied to other planar and three dimensional arrays."
"A novel broad-band lens antenna consisting of a pair of circularly symmetric wire grids with varying grid spacing is described. The antenna is useful for beam scanning at lower frequencies such as at HF where dielectric and waveguide-type lenses are impractical. It should also prove useful in HF communications applications. A single lens structure with multiple feeds could serve as a high gain, high resolution antenna on many different circuits simultaneously. In addition, it could become useful as a printed-circuit lens antenna at microwave frequencies. The property of a pair of grids that makes it suited for lens structures is that the velocity of a wave propagating between two grids can be varied by varying the ratio between the grid spacing and the mesh size. The measured performance of an experimental model of the HF wire-grid lens antenna has demonstrated the feasibility of the basic idea underlying the antenna. The model was tested in a 2:1 bandwidth and a sidelobe level of lower than -20 db was measured. In principle, the bandwidth of the lens can be made as large as desired."
"A study of the wave-propagating properties of a pair of wire grids with square, hexagonal or triangular mesh is presented. The results of the investigation contain the information needed for designing a wire-grid lens antenna. Of the three mesh types investigated, the hexagonal mesh is found to exhibit the least amount of dispersion and anisotropy for a constant mesh area."
"It is shown that in a lossless passive antenna radiating multiple beams from a common aperture, the radiation pattern and the crossover levels cannot be specified independently. This is due to a requirement that the beams must be orthogonal in space. It is also shown that this limitation can be overcome by using multiple apertures, lossy networks, or active networks. Suitable arrangements for obtaining low sidelobes with satisfactory crossover levels are described."
"A slot in a conducting screen which separates a lossless from a lossy dielectric half space is excited by a current source which lies in the interface between the two media. This geometry idealizes slot antennas constructed by placing wire mesh on the ground surface or island antennas as proposed by Morgan and Gould. For narrow slots of width\\omega<\\delta(\\delta=skindepth in the lossy medium) the transverse distribution of the electric field in the slot plane is approximated by the static solution. The langitudinal distribution of the potential across the slot is obtained from a Hallén type solution of an integral equation. For slots of negligible width the propagation constant along the slot approaches the propagation constant of a thin wire which lies in the interface between the two dielectrics. For wide slots of\\omega\\gg\\deltathe integral equation can be solved for the longitudinal variation of the transverse electric field by Fourier transforms, provided that the variation of the electric field in the transverse direction is negligible. The electric field exhibits approximately the same longitudinal variation in the slot plane as the electric field in a direction transverse to the axis of an infinitely long line current which lies in the interface of the two dielectrics. The radiation efficiency of the wide slot (\\omega>\\delta) is larger than the radiation efficiency of narrow slots (\\omega<\\delta). Still, the expected efficiency of the wide slots is less than10^{-3}for frequencies in the VLF range and below, if the ground conductivity is of the order of10^{-3}mho per meter. This indicates an upper limit to the efficiency of an island antenna as proposed by Gould and Morgan."
"A set of universal curves is presented by which the approximate magnitude and phase of the reflection coefficient for horizontal polarization can be determined at any grazing angle with relatively little computation. The approximation is excellent when the relative impedance ratio of the two mediums is high, and sufficiently accurate for almost all engineering purposes even when the impedance ratio is only moderately greater than unity. This set of curves is intended to be a companion to a similar set described in a previous article for the vertical polarization reflection coefficient."
"The magneto-ionic theory for the case of drifting plasma with constant drift velocity\\bar{\\upsilon}_{0}is developed. The refractive indexnis shown to be the solution of an algebraic equation of the sixth order. In several particular cases the algebraic equation is solved explicitly."
"The radiation fields of a horizontal electric dipole in a semi-infinite conducting medium are developed to yield a ground wave near the surface and a space wave above it. Previous work for points of observation slightly above the conducting medium is extended to the entire region by including the height of the observation point in the evaluation of the integral by the saddle point method. The effect of burying a horizontal electric dipole is to modify the field intensity by exp (-h/\\delta), wherehis the depth of burial and\\deltais the skin depth of the medium. Ashapproaches zero, the expressions for radiation fields are identical with those developed by Norton."
"The general problem of radiation by apertures on spherical surfaces was first considered theoretically by Stratton and Chu in 1941. More recently, the problem was again considered by Bailin and Silver, and Mushiake and Webster. All numerical and experimental efforts to date have been restricted to the special case of a very small sphere as measured in wavelengths. This paper is in effect an extension of the previous results to the case of large spheres uniformly excited by an equatorial slot of varying size. The detailed numerical and experimental results are restricted to the first TM and TE modes. In general, it is possible to show that the large spherical slot antenna can be made unusually \"isotropic\" with a far-field coverage factor of over 98 per cent."
"The propagation characteristics of electromagnetic waves in magneto-plasma slabs are of interest in predicting the behavior of trapped modes in anisotropic waveguide structures such as the ion ducts formed by the lines of the earth's magnetic field. This paper derives the expression for waveguide modes present in a uniform infinite plasma slab. The slab has finite thickness, is filled with a lossless plasma and threaded by a uniform static magnetic field along the direction of propagation. It is shown that two sets of hybrid modes can propagate in a magneto-plasma slab at frequencies below plasma resonance, but no trapped models are supported above this frequency. For infinite magnetic fields, the modes uncouple and only a TM mode is supported."
"The diffraction field of continuous, rectangular apertures is analyzed when the system is focused in the Fresnel region. The Fresnel region is defined by phase and amplitude considerations, and the boundary separating the near and Fresnel regions is given as well as the conventional boundary distinguishing between the Fresnel region and far field. Curves have been plotted for several square apertures of varying size for both uniform amplitude illumination and tapered illumination while the focused condition is maintained. A theorem is given proving that the far-field pattern occurs in the focal plane of a continuous, focused aperture. Also included is the expression for gain of a focused rectangular antenna, and a discussion of the concept of gain where strict1/R^{2}dependence does not exist. A comparison of focused circular and rectangular apertures is made in regard to beamwidth, energy between 3-db points, and energy in the main beam. Consideration is also given to the problem of maximizing the field at the point of focus, and as a corollary the \"depth of focus\" is examined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The effects of mutual coupling on the gain and element impedance of large electronically-scanned arrays of dipoles above a ground plane have been analyzed as a function of scan angle. The resulting calculated gain and impedance variations are tabulated for planar arrays with elements located on a square grid with spacings ranging from 0.5 to 0.8 wavelength, for dipole-to-ground plane heights ranging from\\frac{1}{8}to\\frac{3}{8}wavelength. The results of the study show that the gain of a dipole array as a function of scan angle depends markedly upon the element-to-element spacing and appears to be quite insensitive to certain other parameters, such as the height of the dipoles above the ground plane. On the other hand, the change in element impedance with scan is considerably affected by some parameters which have little effect on the array gain behavior, and possibilities for minimizing mismatch caused by scanning are pointed out making use of these results."
"The radiation from a magnetic line source supported by a perfectly conducting plane and coated with a sheath of lossy gyro-plasma is analyzed in this paper. It is found that the radiation pattern becomes narrower as the plasma collision frequency increases, the beam is shifted according to the intensity of the applied static magnetic field, and that the attenuation through the anisotropic plasma is in close agreement with the results obtained for the plane wave approximation."
"Diffraction of electromagnetic waves from an arbitrary source by an anisotropic cylindrical structure or by a cylindrical structure in an anisotropic medium is very difficult to handle in general. But if the source is a line source parallel to (or a plane wave normally incident to) the axis of an infinitely long cylindrical structure, where the transverse anisotropy of the structure is not coupled to that of the axial, the problems simplify in many cases. In all of these cases, Maxwell's equations lead to a single differential equation with parameters and boundary conditions which depend on the individual problems. Examples given are perfectly conducting wedges and a perfectly conducting cylinder in anisotropic media. There are a few cases where the electromagnetic waves depend only on the axial property of the medium, i.e. the waves do not see the anisotropic nature of the medium."
"Stevenson's method is applied to good (but not perfect) conductors immersed in a LF incident field. The LF analysis is particularly useful in showing the transition from field equations to circuit parameters."
"A fundamental error has been discovered in the creeping-wave representation of the minor surface-field component for three-dimensional bodies on which an electromagnetic field is incident. The nature and origins of the error are described, and some of its consequences examined."
"Measured phase and amplitude data on a variety of long (40-wavelength) end-fire arrays of dipoles are presented. Correlation with far-field radiation patterns was good, and experimental agreement with a parallel theoretical program was very satisfactory. Measured local phase velocity agreed well with calculated values, and uniform, tapered, and periodically-modulated arrays with the proper average phase shift all had approximately the theoretical expected gain. It is shown that local variations in the near field caused by the individual elements may distort measurements of the phase velocity based upon standing-wave techniques."
"A brief discussion of the ranges of various parameters involved in air-to-undersea communication at 10 to10^{5}cps is followed by a solution of Sommerfeld's integrals for the\\bar{\\pi}components in the two media, the solution being valid for the quasi-near range subject to certain mild restrictions. This is accomplished by defining two auxiliary integrals, asymptotic series expansions for which are obtained by extending the work of Baños and Wesley. The solution for\\bar{\\pi}leads to the derivation of electromagnetic-field components. It is found that, from field-strength considerations alone, the best scheme for two-way communication consists of a vertical electrical dipole in air with a horizontal electric dipole in the sea. Simple calculations for estimating the satisfactory communication range are included."
"A portion of a spherical reflecting surface possesses inherent scanning advantages over a paraboloidal reflector. These advantages can only be realized, however, if spherical aberration is eliminated. A composite illuminator is described which does eliminate this form of aberration, enabling beam scanning through as much as 110 degrees to be obtained without beam degradation. Efficiency for the illuminated portion of the aperture is about 55 per cent and sidelobe levels from 18 to 20 db below the main beam are obtained. A set of high gain polyrods provides paraxial zone illumination while the wide-angle primary illumination is derived from a line source consisting of back-to-back channel guides. The phase velocity in the channels varies in such fashion as just to compensate for the path length deviations experienced by nonaxial rays, thereby eliminating spherical aberration. Experimental results for spherical reflecting antennas atX, K_{u}andK_{a}band are given. Use of ad hoc primary illumination functions has allowed theoretical calculations of secondary patterns. These are in qualitative agreement with observed results."
"The reflection of electromagnetic waves from a parallel wire grid, located near the plane interface of two homogeneous media, is considered. The incident wave is polarized such that the magnetic vector is perpendicular to the grid wires. It is shown that, for this particular case, the grid may be represented by a pure shunt element in the equivalent transmission line circuit. The application of the results to the design radial wire ground systems for vertical monopole systems is mentioned."
"A general theory is advanced for determining the receiving properties of a dipole that is oriented parallel to the line of intersection of two infinite highly-conducting plane surfaces. The angle of intersection is restricted to\\pi/nradians, so that the method of images may be employed. An integral equation is solved to a high degree of accuracy for the short-circuit current at the terminals of the receiving dipole. The short-circuit current multiplied by the impedance of the dipole in the reflector gives the open-circuit voltage. This voltage drives a circuit consisting of the load impedance in series with the impedance of the dipole in the reflector. From this equivalent circuit of the receiving antenna, the power in the load may be obtained. Two receiving systems are analyzed numerically. In one case a half-wave dipole having a length-to-diameter ratio of 74.21, and a matched load, is brought in juxtaposition to a highly conducting plane surface. The voltage across the load is calculated and plotted as a function of the spacing between the dipole and its image, with the angle of signal arrival as a parameter. In the other case, the same calculations are made for a half-wave dipole having a length-to-diameter ratio of 122.35 when it is oriented parallel to two conducting sheets that intersect at90\\deg. As before, the load is selected to provide a conjugate match when the dipole is isolated."
"Results are presented of twilight-region propagation experiments on 128 Mc over the airline route from San Francisco, Calif., to Honolulu, Hawaii, including high-altitude jet flights. Greatly enhanced fields are observed on most of the flights, and these are correlated with a new meteorological parameter related to mean index gradient and atmospheric stability. It is also shown that minimum propagation conditions are some 20 db improved over other ground-to-ground or ground-to-air experiments. This improvement is attributed to greater antenna height at the ground terminal which lowers the lowest lobe of the vertical radiation pattern of the ground terminal. It is also pointed out that there is a high probability that minimum propagation conditions will not exist simultaneously for the plane-to-California and plane-to-Hawaii paths. Enhanced propagation conditions will therefore exist from the plane to one of the terminals for an operationally significant fraction of the time. It is pointed out that many existing VHF air-to-ground systems throughout the world can be extended to at least 500 miles through increased effective power and high antenna sites. The results obtained in the present paper are compared with the existing body of related propagation data beyond the horizon, and an interpretation is offered of the mechanism of the propagation."
"In general, the beam patterns of a multiple-beam antenna system may overlap. The degree of overlap is usefully defined by a cross-correlation type of integral which includes phase factors as well as polar diagrams in the description of the beams. It is shown that when beam overlap exists, conservation of energy implies the unavoidable existence of cross couplings between the feed lines, and a related limitation on the radiation efficiency (or correspending receiving cross section) of any single beam. Quantitative relationships are derived describing these limitations, and examples given. The implied character of the scattering matrix, comprised of the array of cross-coupling factors, is also discussed with especial emphasis on lossless, reciprocal systems."
"A narrow beam is formed by radiation from a large aperture having a flat phase front. Any curvature of the phase front, as by defocusing, causes widening of the beam and reduction of the directive gain. Certain symmetric and antisymmetric forms of aperture excitation, based on the probability function, have been known to yield radiation patterns of the same shape. It is found that these patterns retain their shape when widened by defocusing, so that the effects of defocusing can be expressed by simple and exact formulas. Also they retain some ideal relations that are peculiar to their use as sum and difference patterns in a tracking radar of the simultaneous-lobing or monopulse type. The simplification results from the fact that the attenuation for tapering the aperture excitation, and the phase shift by defocusing, are both proportional to the square of the aperture coordinates from the center. The amount of defocusing is then expressed by the constant ratio of these two quantities in radians per napier. While these forms ideally require a line or circle aperture of unlimited extent, they can be approximated with an aperture of finite extent. Therefore the resulting simple concepts and rules are helpful in practical situations."
"The elements of a monopole array can be excited by probe-coupling them to a rectangular waveguide. It is shown theoretically and verified experimentally that there is a monopole height that maximizes the power extracted from the waveguide for a given probe depth. The analysis treated the probe in the waveguide as a receiving antenna connected to the outer monopole by a short length of coaxial line. The relative power radiated was determined from insertion loss measurements at 2840 Mc."
"Experiment Luxembourg, based on cross modulation of two radio waves, was put into operation at College, Alaska, at the beginning of the summer in 1960 to study theD-region ionization. Part I of this paper presents an extensive analysis of the radio-wave interaction mechanism. It discusses how the cross modulation can be produced not only by changing the electron collision frequency (the classical Luxembourg effect), but also by changing the electron density. It shows that both contributions can be significant. The changes in electron density that are considered are not related to ionization processes, but to perturbation of the attachment processes. Part II of this paper gives a critical examination of the analytical results derived in Part I. Important experimental aspects related to the operation of Experiment Luxembourg are illustrated. Some of the records obtained during the first period of operation are presented and discussed. From the discussion of the experimental results, it is clear that 1) ionization was detected at heights as low as 30 km, and 2) the electrons, at least at 40 km, are not in thermal equilibrium with the atmosphere, but show a temperature of about1200\\degK."
"Experiment Luxembourg, based on cross modulation of two radio waves, was put into operation at College, Alaska, at the beginning of the summer in 1960 to study theD-region ionization. Part I of this paper presents an extensive analysis of the radio-wave interaction mechanism. It discusses how the cross modulation can be produced not only by changing the electron collision frequency (the classical Luxembourg effect), but also by changing the electron density. It shows that both contributions can be significant. The changes in electron density that are considered are not related to ionization processes, but to perturbations of the attachment processes. Part II of this paper gives a critical examination of the analytical results derived in Part I. Important experimental aspects related to the operation of Experiment Luxembourg are illustrated. Some of the records obtained during the first period of operation are presented and discussed. From the discussion of the experimental results, it is clear that 1)ionization was detected at heights as low as 30 km, and 2) the electrons, at least at 40 km, are not in thermal equilibrium with the atmosphere, but show a temperature of about1200\\degK."
"An ideal model of an inductive-grid leaky-wave antenna is analyzed, and the rigorous solution for the radiation pattern obtained. This rigorous pattern is compared with the approximate pattern obtained from the Fourier transform of the approximate aperture distribution. The agreement between the two is found to be very good and hence justifies the use of the simpler Fourier transform method. The analysis also sheds light on the significance of the leakywave pole for this class of antennas."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Application of the Luneberg-Kline asymptotic series to the solution of electromagnetic boundary value problems is extended to problems involving dielectric media. The series is employed to obtain an approximate value for the field near a sinusoidal interface between dielectric media when a perpendicularly polarized plane wave is incident. The resulting formulas are used to evaluate quantitatively the accuracy of the geometrical optics solution of the problem for a range of parameter values. It is found that for the parameter values considered, the geometrical optics solution is an excellent approximation to the exact solution."
"An annular slot antenna which is backed by a cylindrical or a coaxial cavity is excited by a current sheet in the slot plane which exhibits no azimuthal (\\phi) variation. The integral equation which relates the radial electric field in the slot plane to the linear source current density is solved by variational techniques. The numerical calculations emphasize narrow slots and shallow cavities. The slot antennas may resonate with cavity depthz_{0}<\\lambda/4. A resonant antenna exhibits nearly the same bandwidth as the slot which is backed by\\lambda/4deep cavity. Dielectric cavity loading decreases the size of a resonant cavity, but it also decreases the antenna bandwidth."
"The effects of an unbalanced component of current on the distribution of the current along a dipole antenna driven by a two-wire transmission line has been studied experimentally. It was found that an unbalanced component of current on the line significantly influences the measured distributions of current along antennas of shorter lengths. A quantitative study was made by decomposing the currents into symmetric and antisymmetric parts. The associated unbalance in the transverse field distribution was measured by a field probe and correlated with the ratio of the amplitudes of the symmetric to antisymmetric components of current in the transmission line and the antenna."
"Atmospheric index of refraction has been measured from ground level to 5000 feet using the Deam telemetering refractometer which permitted accurate spectral analysis of these data. The results of the analysis show a wide variation in the mean slope and intensity of the spectra. Some of the spectra are presented and their characteristics discussed."
"This paper presents a rigorous formulation of the boundary value problem posed by an electromagnetic wave incident upon a plane screen containing a doubly periodic array of rectangular apertures. The differential-integral equation method of Copson is employed to derive integral equations in the components of the aperture field. These are then solved approximately for normally incident plane-wave excitation. A numerical solution is obtained for square apertures which is valid over the aperture resonance region,kd \\approx 1.5. Values of scattering cross section and plots of the aperture field are presented for aperture sizes larger, smaller, and near resonant dimensions. The effect of singularities of the aperture field near the edges is discussed."
"A statistical analysis is presented which, assuming the errors in the beam forming matrix of a linear Butler array to be small independent Rayleigh-distributed random errors, indicates that the resultant power pattern has a modified Rayleigh distribution. The results of the analysis were then applied to determine the effects upon sidelobes and beam pointing yielding the following results. The allowable limits of phase and amplitude errors for a specified sidelobe deterioration are greatly reduced in comparison to the limits for an array whose elements are independently excited; furthermore, the limits are to a great extent independent of the number of elements in the array. The beam-pointing error is not severely affected and is inversely proportional to the number of elements. The nature of the results confirm what was to be expected from the periodic fashion in which errors within the matrix are distributed across the array."
"A plane wave is incident upon a cylindrical surface comprised of two parabolic sections with different curvature at their junction but otherwise smoothly joined, such that the direction of their normals is continuous. The Neumann boundary condition is considered and an asymptotic expansion is obtained for the field on the surface. It is shown that the discontinuity will launch creeping waves on a curved surface, and the actual form of these waves are obtained. The special case where one of the curved surfaces degenerates into a plane is also considered."
"The earth ionosphere cavity is capable of supporting resonant electromagnetic modes (Schumann modes) at extremely low frequencies. The usual formula for the frequencies of these resonances is deduced from the waveguide mode theory in which propagation is essentially tangential to the earth's surface. Here an alternative formulation in terms of outwardly and inwardly propagating radial waves is presented and shown to result in the same formula as found from the waveguide mode theory for all reasonableD-region ionosphere parameters."
"The boundary value problem of the infinite grating of circular cylinders is treated by specializing the new functional equation obtained previously for arbitrary elements. This specifies the problem in terms of a set of algebraic equations which involves only the known scattering coefficients of an isolated cylinder, and certain series of elementary functions. The special results for normal incidence are identically those obtained originally by Ignatowsky who worked with the separation-of-variables solution; as a check we also extend his procedure to arbitrary angles and show that the results can be transformed to those we obtain by the Green's function approach. The equations are used to construct series and closed form approximations for both polarizations, for conducting and dielectric cylinders, for arbitrary angles of incidence. The results are applied to consider multiple scattering or coupling effects for a mode near grazing (Wood anomalies), and for closely spaced scatterers (packing effects). For example, we show that to a first approximation the packing effects forEperpendicular to the axes merely increase the dipole moment of the isolated cylinder; in this range, the circular cylinder within the grating is equivalent to an isolated elliptic cylinder whose size and shape are independent of angle of incidence. We also obtain simple closed forms for low frequencies which take explicit account of coupling effects up to multipoles of order2^{5}, etc."
"A collection of numerical results have been computed from an exact solution for the diffraction of surface waves by a right-angle bend which is reactive on one surface and is perfectly conducting on the other. The power reflection coefficient and the far field pattern are presented graphically for both TM and TE cases. The truncation of the perfectly-conducting face is considered for its approximate effect on the diffraction pattern. The physical significance of these calculations is discussed in terms of its relationship to surface wave antennas. The radiation patterns are also computed by the Kirchhoff approximation and compared with those of the exact analysis."
"The phase quadrature components of the total microwave field transmitted through a random volume distribution of Styrofoam spheres have been measured in the laboratory. The radii (a) of the spheres were large compared to the wavelengths (ka=2\\pi a/\\lambda\\sim20), and their index of refraction was close to unity (\\eta = 1.019). The statistical results lead in general to the bivariate normal distribution with correlation (\\rho) to describe the scattered incoherent field, rather than to the simpler Rayleigh distribution. The quadrature components of the incoherent field are Gaussian, but in general\\sigma_{1}^{2}\\neq\\sigma_{2}^{2}and\\rho\\neq 0. However, by rotating (in phase) the quadrature axes, two simpler situations arise: (a) at one orientation,\\sigma_{1}^{2}=\\sigma_{2}^{2}but\\rho\\neq0; (b) at an orientation45\\degfrom case (a),\\sigma_{1}^{2}\\neq\\sigma_{2}^{2}but\\rho\\neq0. Probability density expressions for these simpler cases exist in the literature. As the quadrature axes are rotated, the sum\\sigma_{1}^{2}+\\sigma_{2}^{2}remains equal to a constant (the incoherent power), as it should. These departures of the incoherent field from the Rayleigh distribution are a function of the sum of the reciprocal transmitter and receiver distances. This behavior suggests that the departures are related to the sphericity of the transmitting and receiving beams."
"An analysis of the beam formation of receiving arrays employing signal limiting and sampling is performed. It is found that the effect of limiting and sampling with one signal present and the effect of limiting alone when more than one signal is present is to introduce new side lobes into the beam pattern that may be confused with signals. It is pointed out that by a suitable distribution of receiving transducers both of these effects can be reduced to a degree that becomes negligible and the performance of the array becomes similar to the one without the processing."
"A fixed array of four loop aerials is described which, in conjunction with a goniometer, is equivalent to a rotating spaced-loop aerial when receiving ground wave signals. 'Experimental verification of this performance is given. The theoretical performance of this system when receiving sky wave signals is developed. Under these conditions, the system offers no advantage over the simple cross-looped aerial."
"Although recently unequally-spaced arrays have been shown to be useful, the theory has not been fully developed, except for the use of matrices, computers, or the perturbation method. This paper presents a new approach to the unequally-spaced array problem. It is based on the use of Poisson's sum formula and the introduction of a new function, the \"source position function.\" By appropriate transformation, the original radiation pattern is converted into a series of integrals, each of which is equivalent to the radiation from a continuous source distribution whose amplitude and phase distribution clearly exhibit the effects of the unequal spacings. By this method, it is possible to design unequally-spaced arrays which produce a desired radiation pattern. This method is effective in treating arrays of a large number of elements, and unequally-spaced arrays on a curved surface. Three examples are shown to illustrate the effectiveness of the method. The problem of sidelobe reduction for the array of uniform amplitude, which was attacked by Harrington, is treated by our method. A numerical example is shown for 25-db sidelobe level. Also, the problem of secondary beam suppression is attacked with the use of the Anger function. The interesting problem of azimuthal frequency scanning by means of an unequally-spaced circular array is also shown, using the method of stationary phase."
"Wave propagation in periodic structures is considered from the self-consistency of multiple scattered fields. Surface waves on gratings or open structures comprising obstacles that scatter cylindrical and spherical waves are analyzed approximately by a summation technique. Finally, coupled surface waves due to interaction between adjacent structures are investigated."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents information of interest to PGAP members."
"Describes the special features, transmision capabilities, and communications capabilities of large antenna technologies and products on the market."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Discusses the logic, characteristics, and applicability of Zipf's Law.  The fundamental innovation of this paper is the fact that Zipf's Law may be used to obtain global information from limited local data. "
" Describes the special features, technology, and applicability interferometers and explains their communications capabilities as antennas."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"In this paper the propagation characteristics of a variable dielectric medium are investigated. Specifically, the medium is an infinite dielectric slab imbedded in free space but whose dielectric constant merges continuously into the free space value at the boundaries while attaining a maximum value at the center of the slab. In solving Maxwell's Equations in such a medium, it is shown that certain solutions of the fields in the medium reveal the existence of trapped modes within the slab. The solutions are expressible in terms of hypergeometric functions which simplify to hyperbolic functions for the lowest ordered modes. The governing conditions which establish the existence of these modes are also used to determine the appropriate cutoff frequency of each mode."
"This paper is an expansion of the theory of stationary aperture focusing as developed by Wehner and Bickmore. The field of a circular antenna focused in the Fresnel region is approximated in terms of finite Hankel transforms of the aperture amplitude function. Although the peak gain of the focused antenna is comparable to the Fraunhofer gain of an equivalent uniformly illuminated aperture, the pattern characteristics undergo second-order perturbations. A series solution for the pattern through the focal plane is given for an amplitude distribution expressible as a power series. The effect of amplitude taper is studied."
"The paper deals with the analysis of a class of log-periodic circuits. Closed form expressions are developed for the Foster type LP networks with or without losses. It is proved that the locus of the input impedance of these networks on a reflection coefficient chart, e.g., on the Smith chart, is a circle for networks of order one. It is shown that for a network of a general order the plot is not necessarily a circle. The input impedance of a log periodically loaded transmission line is studied. It is found that for certain conditions the reflection coefficient plot is very close to a circle but in general it generates closed curves of various shapes."
"The off-axis properties of two-reflector systems of the Cassegrain and Schwarzschild type have been investigated on a theoretical basis to determine the allowable scan angle. Design parameters for systems of this type as a function of beamwidth, scan angle, magnification, and aperture block have been obtained and are presented in graphical form. In addition, a modification of the Schwarzschild system that involves overcompensating the reflecting surfaces has resulted in a larger allowable scan angle. The effects of astigmatism, location of the best focus for off-axis performance, and the effects upon the radiation patterns are presented in graphical form. A method of reducing the effects of aperture block by using the secondary reflector as a secondary source of radiation are also described."
"Employment of megawatt power levels in shortwave broadcasting, the declining sunspot cycle, and the growing number of broadcasters competing for spectrum space make it increasingly desirable for transmitter personnel to know when unusually low MUF's prevent a given broadcast from reaching its destination. Affected transmitters can be either shut off, thus saving running costs, or retuned to propagating frequencies. Backscatter sounding is known to be a satisfactory means for determining propagation conditions along the transmission path, but owing to the practical problems of integrating such sounding into broadcasting operations, has not been appreciably used as yet. It is shown that application of the FM ranging principle to backscatter sounding is feasible, permitting the broadcasting carrier itself to be used for sounding purposes without disturbance to transmitter operating conditions or appreciable annoyance to the distant listener. It is necessary that an associated receiving site within the ground-wave range of a given transmitting plant be available. Useful sounding measurements can be made with the aid of equipment normally found in any receiving station. In fact, an operator can gauge skip distance by estimating the pitch of an audible tone. On balance, this technique appears to have significant practical advantages in comparison with the pulse or modulation-correlation alternatives."
"In Part I of this paper, the polarization characteristics of antennas using \"geographical\" analogies are reviewed. From the longitude polarization of a dipole and the latitude polarization of a loop, a vector description is given to the radiation from these basic elements. Combinations of dipoles, loops, or dipoles and loops can then be readily analyzed from simple complex vector formulas describing the amplitude, phase, and polarization of the far fields. In particular, turnstile-type combinations providing nominal circular polarization are discussed. The vector technique is also applied to aperture antennas. It is shown that the obliquity factor of aperture antennas (1 + \\cos \\theta) is a scalar constituent of an obliquity vector characterizing the radiated field, whether associated with linear or circular polarization. The vector antenna pattern for a linearly polarized horn antenna is derived and applied to the problem of the square horn fed by orthogonal TE modes in quadrature. Strong left circularly polarized lobes are radiated by a nominally right circular horn. The reduction of cross-polarization by providing a square horn with polarized teeth is described. The paper contains \"geographical\" drawings and sketches of 3 D contour plots of right and left circular component antenna patterns. In Part II of this paper, \"Punch-Through\" problems associated with sidelobe suppression systems are discussed. The effectiveness of side-lobe suppression systems at any given angle of incidence can be determined by the measurement of punch-through probability for all possible polarizations of the input signal. For systems where only random linear polarizations need be considered, a rotating linearly polarized test signal is used, and the punch-through probability can be measured directly as a percentage of a complete rotation that produces an acceptable response. For side-lobe suppression systems that must consider response to completely random polarized signals, a rotating linearly polarized source can again be used as the test signal. In this case, however, ellipticity measurements are obtained on each of the antennas separately, and this data can then be used to complete the punch-through probability by either analytic or plotting techniques. Typical results obtained for an S-band circularly polarized side-lobe suppression system are presented which support the conclusion that in a multiantenna side-lobe suppression system, careful selection of antenna types with regard to polarization tracking characteristics must be used in order to minimize the amount of unwanted signal reception or punch-through."
"The main purpose of the new antenna system, described herein, is to enhance high-frequency communications by reducing the effects of multipath and interference. The experimental ISCAN system, designed for reception of long distance h-f communications, consists of two principal parts: a linear array of vertical dipoles over 6300 feet long and an electronic beam forming matrix. A single, fixed-beam radiation pattern is available at each of the 14 terminals of this matrix. The beams have the shape of coaxial conical shells and adjacent beams overlap each other at the half-power points. These beams are formed by the use of tapped delay cables which is an inherently broadband method. Inertialess scanning of an antenna beam is achieved by rapid switching of the 14 beams in sequence using electronic gating circuitry. This effectively scans the antenna beam up to 30 degrees off the array axis. A visual oscilloscope display is provided to show the relative outputs of the multiple beams at all times."
"This paper describes the design and performance of annular slot planar arrays which generate pencil beams and monopulse tracking beams in both principal planes. These planar arrays consist of a transmission line in the form of a radial waveguide whose upper plate contains annular groups of linear slots. Monopulse operation is obtained by dividing the transmission line into four independently excited quadrants, each of which is propagating a field configuration identical to the dominant H01radial waveguide mode. The antennas radiate linear polarization. In contrast with many other types of two-dimensional waveguide slot arrays, the antennas can be fabricated inexpensively. Small diameter versions are shown to possess the following electrical and mechanical advantages when compared to a dish antenna of comparable size: 1) better gain through increased aperture efficiency, 2) improved backlobe suppression, and 3) compact size and lower weight. The experimental design was done at X-band."
"It is shown that the presence of a gyrotropic lossless plasma slab covering a rectangular slot radiator does not alter significantly the radiation pattern in the vertical plane when the static magnetic field is perpendicular to the slot. The plasma covered antenna remains omnidirectional and the radiated power is not significantly reduced when the cyclotron frequency exceeds the operating frequency by one order of magnitude (\\omega_{b}^{2} \\gg \\omega^{2}). It is also found that the matching between the antenna and its surrounding is sharply improved, if the antenna is covered with such a slab, at critical combinations of the plasma slab parameters and the operating frequency; this finding may be useful for plasma diagnostics, in order to determine the slab width L, the plasma frequency\\omega_{p}, and the collision frequency\\upsilon, by varying\\omega_{b}and\\omega."
"This paper gives the results of a theoretical and experimental study of the characteristics of antennas in lossy environments, such as wires buried in the earth or sea. A criterion for the evaluation of such antennas (for surface waves or any other single mode of propagation), called relative communication efficiency, is defined and a mathematical formula for its calculation is derived. A number of specific evaluations are presented, with emphasis on horizontal wire antennas. The results of experiments to determine the input impedance and current distribution on wires of different sizes and different insulation thicknesses are summarized and compared to a simple theory. The results of measurements of the field strength of horizontal wires and arrays are presented and compared to the theoretical results. The signal to noise ratios observed with submerged receiving antenna structures are discussed."
"Communication satellite systems operating at frequencies as high as 3 Gc are now in the active planning stage. A number of recent papers have dealt with the interference produced at the ground receiving sites of such systems by tropospheric scatter from sources below the radio horizon. However, theoretical and experimental data from the field of radar meteorology show that scattering by precipitation particles at 3 Gc can easily exceed the tropospheric scatter component by several orders of magnitude. The precipitation scatter is approximately isotropic in most cases and hence the scattering volume need not be on the Great Circle path from the interfering source to the receiver site to be effective. Minimum separations for satellite terminals and interference sources computed considering only tropospheric scatter are therefore completely inadequate to guard against precipitation scatter."
"This paper considers a non-uniformaly spaced array. By starting with a continuous aperture distribution, the pattern function is formulated from a Lesbegue-Stieltjes integral point of view. A spacing weighting function can thus be generated. Based upon the methods of mechanical quadrature, the integral is reduced to a summation which represents the pattern function of a corresponding array. As an examples a symmetric linear array of 74 isotropic sources at an average spacing of 1.82 wavelengths is considered. The side lobe level is found to be less than -14 db for|u| < 0.98and below -10 db for|u| \\leq 2. If these elements were uniformly spaced, secondary beams of 0-db level would occur atu = \\pm 0.552, \\pm 1.10, and\\pm 1.66. A systematic optimization in a certain sense by a high speed computer has also been carried out. It indicates that a slight improvement in performance is possible. Based upon Legendre-Gaussian quadrature, two other linear arrays, both spacing and amplitude weighted: are studied. For relatively small u, their patterns are practically identical to that due to the corresponding continuous distribution."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Antennas and Propagation."
"The effects on the radiation pattern when N pairs of symmetrically located radiators are removed at random from a large (2N_{o} + 1)-element linear array are studied as a statistical problem. It has been possible to determine the limiting bounds of the radiation pattern, the probability that the main-lobe beamwidth is widened by not more than a given percentage, the probability that a certain side lobe does not deteriorate by a specified amount, and the probability that all side lobes are below a specified level. The general analysis is valid for arrays with an arbitrary amplitude distribution which is symmetrical with respect to the center element and with an arbitrary progressive phase shift. Curves showing computed statistical data for a 201-element array with both the uniform and a cosine-squared amplitude distribution are presented."
"The radiation characteristics of the conical logarithmic spiral antenna make it attractive as an element for circularly polarized arrays. The design of such arrays requires a knowledge of the radiation coupling and mutual impedance between these log-spiral elements as a function of rotation as well as element spacing, and for some array configurations a knowledge of the location of the phase center of the elements. A general consideration of the conical log-spiral antenna as a locally periodic, slow wave structure is outlined, and in so-doing a quasi-empirical formula for the location of the antenna phase center is developed. An investigation of the mutual impedance between the log-spiral antennas has shown it to be very low. Information on this impedance and on the coefficient of coupling between antennas is supplied for two different geometrical array configurations and for various antenna parameters. Pattern modification due to the presence of parasitic elements has been investigated. For element to element spacing of at least one half wavelength, this consists primarily of an increase in beamwidth. Radiation patterns for several arrays, including one 4 element conical array are shown. This latter array should be of interest as a primary antenna or as a feed for a large parabolic reflector in telemetry applications."
"Superdirective antenna arrays offer a practical and significant improvement in the reception of VLF radio signals. Based on supergain techniques, such arrays enhance the SNR by the use of a highly directional pattern without occupying more than a few per cent of the space that would be required for a conventional array, and do not degrade the bandwidth. Supergain techniques are not usually of practical interest because of unavoidable losses in efficiency and in many cases, drastic reduction in bandwidth resulting from interaction between elements. It is shown that most of the problems with superdirectivity are peculiar to the case of efficient antennas, and do not apply to VLF receiving antennas in which extremely low efficiencies are easily tolerated."
"Presents information on the conference venue."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1962 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"The technology of thin-film electronics is aimed at a reduction of the physical size and production costs of electronic equipment as well as at increased reliability and improved performance. This paper will show how complex logic functions can be obtained by integrating many thinfilm circuits of one type at the panel level. This can be accomplished by altering the thin-film interconnection pattern from panel to panel, while retaining the basic circuit configuration throughout. Familiar design techniques for lumped parameter networks can be utilized. The design of an integrated thin-film panel will also be described. To demonstrate the feasibility of fabricating an integrated film assembly, a logic test vehicle (integrated counter assembly) was designed utilizing a 56 trl-NOR panel design."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents informatino on the formal opening of the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"The 1962 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference features ten daytime sessions at the University of Pennsylvania (Irvine Auditorium and University Museum) devoted to broad advances in the field of solid-state device applications and circuits. FORTY-SIX papers will be presented. Subject areas include logic, microwave parametric circuits, new devices and device characterization, memory, high-speed switching, low-noise amplification, tunnel-diode applications, digital transmission, functional components, and design applications. THE FORMAL OPENING of the conference includes an invited address on active homogeneous semiconductor devices. ELEVEN INFORMAL sessions, conducted by international leaders in the solid-state field, will be held on Wednesday and Thursday evenings in the Sheraton Hotel to provide registrants an opportunity to discuss the latest developments in the art. AMONG THE TOPICS on the agenda are distributed logic, interconnection problems, microwave power sources, magnetic thin-film memories, noisemanship, and charge-control characterization of semiconductor devices. Additional discussion periods cover nanosecond circuitry, optical masers, thin-film magnetic and superconductive techniques in future computers, low-level signal processing, and high-power high-speed switching."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents an opening editorial of the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Sounds in industry may go unheard by the ear, but they are all-important to \"listening\" machines, compounds, and processes. Already with sound we can test, mix, measure, clean, drill, and control. And research indicates broad new applications in the tomorrow."
"The analysis of speech by machine, the transmission of the coded message and the synthesis of speech from the code offer many advantages. For instance, if it is desired to transmit only \"what\" is spoken and not \"how\" it was spoken, very great savings in channel capacity to transmit information can be made. The digital form of the message permits more secure coding and decoding for secrecy. Work done at the RCA Laboratories on phonetic typewriters, machines that type in response to words spoken into a microphone, has shown that the transmission of speech analyzer output and synthesis of speech therefrom is feasible when performed by units of speech of the order of a syllable. Smaller phonetic entities, phonemes or speech sounds, cannot always be recognized by machine or even by ear without the knowledge of adjoining sounds. This information is always available when the analysis proceeds by syllables. Feasibility studies have also shown that intelligible speech can be synthesized from prerecorded syllables."
"An improved understanding of some stereophonic phenomena may be obtained by use of acoustical pressure phasors to portray sound pressure at the ears of the observer. With the help of phasors, it is possible to expand and modify certain conclusions of previous observers and to validate some previously unpublished observations: a stereophonic \"law of sines\" is derived. The existence and location of the \"out-of-bounds\" stereophonic image is analyzed and verified. The \"allowed maximum out-of-phase ratio\" is derived, together with the observation that this maximum is exceeded by certain microphone arrays. The motion and elevation of the center image in stereophonic reproduction is observed and explained."
"The Hamograph was designed and built to fulfill the need for a practical and relatively inexpensive means for controlling the rhythm and dynamic envelope of raw electronic sounds, as a tool for the electronic music composer. The machine consists of control loops of variable speed, which carry the rhythmic and envelope message in the form of conductive contours, read by a series of contacts of graduated resistance, which in turn modulate the signal voltage. Any type of sound may be subjected to such control which results in a wide variety of musical textures and melodies. Corrections can be made easily, and the number of splices required for a total electronic composition is materially reduced."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A stereophonic test record has been designed for measurement of pickup response on a curve recorder. The principles of stereophonic disk recording which have governed the design of this record, are reviewed. The new test record contains two sweep-frequency bands for the left and right channels, the signal frequency varying logarithmically with time at a rate of 1 decade each 24 seconds covering a range of 40-20,000 cps. Left and right spot-frequency tones with voice announcements have also been provided covering a range of 20-20,000 cps. Automatic recording of pickup response has been estimated to save\\frac{1}{2}to\\frac{1}{3}of manpower used in pickup and phonograph development. For automatic measurement of preamplifier characteristics, an RC RIAA generating network has been designed. A circuit for automatic starting of recorder by keying tones on the record is described."
"Increasing complexity in the combinations of music and electronic technology suggests a general model of the musical transfer function. Conventional transfer includes: 1) universe of tones, 2) composer, 3) score, 4) performer, 5) musical instrument, 6) audience. Recording, broadcast, electronic synthesis and composing music by the computer either extend or modify the conventional transfer. Under \"processed music,\" alternating and synchronous applications of live and mechanical music, time-processed music and the more visionary polyphonic separation are described. The method of juxtaposition described permits automatic scoring of ensemble performances."
"A phonograph preamplifier-equalizer system has been developed which permits continuous equalization adjustment over a wide frequency range. The playback contour can therefore be \"fitted\" to accommodate any recording characteristic normally encountered in practice."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The stereophonic composite signal may be decoded in adaptor circuitry by time multiplex or sum-and-difference approaches. To obtain suppression of SCA (background music) signals while maintaining adequate separation of the two stereophonic audio signals double, single, or residual sideband demodulation of the stereo subcarrier can be employed. Satisfactory reception of FM stereo signals requires tuner circuitry of higher performance than for equal monophonic performance. Calculated and measured stereophonic separation, distortion, and signal-to-noise ratio are shown with major causes of these performance aspects."
"Future tape recorders running at a speed of1\\frac{7}{8}ips must achieve an upper frequency limit of 15 kc on a quarter track recording, with better SNR than presently obtained with commercial recorders. This means that the subjective quality of present full track machines at 15 ips must be maintained in spite of a fifty-fold increase of information density. It is obvious that such an improvement cannot be obtained only by changes to the electronic circuitry and the like. In fact, the future requirement would be impossible to meet if improvements in tape and heads were not made. Such improvements must include new knowledge of head construction, tape-to-head contact problems, and optimum balancing of recording parameters. But once these improvements are effected, it is then necessary to check carefully if the most thorough use is being made of all available technical possibilities. It will be shown that recording techniques have advanced to a stage where a change in the standardization characteristics is advantageous and even necessary, though they may be more complicated than the existing standards."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Two methods have been used for, obtaining an absolute measurement of normal surface induction of a medium wavelength signal recorded on magnetic tape. One employs a nonmagnetic loop and an electrical procedure for determining its active rectangular cross-sectional dimensions. The normal surface induction is computed from these dimensions and the output voltage induced in the loop as the tape is transported at a prescribed speed across the active portion of the loop. The other is based on recording a dc signal of current level equal to the rms value of the ac recording current which produces the equivalent recorded signal as that for which the measurement is desired. A calibrated search coil is then used to measure the total remanent flux in a bundle of many layers of the dc recorded tape. The surface induction is then calculated for medium wavelength signals using existing formulas Measurements of surface induction obtained using the two methods provide equivalent results. The surface induction could be measured for a wide range of wavelengths using the nonmagnetic loop."
"Ac-biased magnetic recording is described in a brief analysis based upon the anhysteretic magnetization process. Several different models are used to illustrate particular aspects of the recording process. It is shown that, using conventional record heads, there is bound to be a conflict between the efficient recording of short and long wavelength signals. The critical requirements involved in recording 15 kc at as low a tape speed as1\\frac{7}{8}ips are emphasized by pointing out that, on reproduction, 75 per cent of the output comes from the first 0.7 micron (28 microinches) of the coating. Various methods for improving the record process have been proposed from time to time. These methods consist of proposals for sharpening the recording field as a whole, sharpening the bias field alone, and increasing the uniformity of the recording field through the coating thickness. The design of heads to accomplish any of these objectives remains to be worked out in detail. However, several possible techniques are discussed, namely pole-shaping, eddy-current shielding and the use of poles on both sides of the tape. An entirely new recording technique is described which utilizes successive recordings by two separate gaps of different sizes. The two gaps can be contained in separate heads or in a single head, provided that the time-delay between the two recordings, if significant, is compensated for prior to recording. The principle is simple. The long gap is fed only with low-frequency signals which it can record effectively throughout the whole coating; the short gap records the high-frequency signals in the outermost layer of tape. The bias field from the short gap need not significantly reduce the level of the low-frequency recorded information. Filtering requirements and methods of time-delay compensation are discussed in the text, and a mathematical analysis is given of the interference to be expected from an uncompensated system."
"A new technique for the construction of magnetic-tape heads is described. In this technique the magnetic material in the vicinity of the air gap is deposited by electroplating and the air gap is formed by engraving. Analysis of the leakage flux and of the pole piece saturation is presented. The performance of the head is evaluated in terms of frequency response."
"Flux sensitive heads using thin semiconductors have been developed for playback of magnetic recordings. The elements have a frequency response inherently flat from dc to tens of megacycles, so that the main limitations are in the associated head structure. Factors entering into optimum design are discussed, including materials and configurations of semiconductor elements and cores. Experimental results for successful designs are given, and a number of applications are suggested."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A study has been made of the chemical and physical properties of magnetic recording tape. The chemical studies indicate the possible relationship between a series of solvent tests and the wear properties of commercially available tapes. The physical studies, including electron micrographs, indicate a smaller unit crystal size for γ-ferric oxide than previously supposed and a relationship between a better dispersion and improved magnetic properties. Both studies are being continued in greater detail."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper describes a highly-directional electropneumatic loudspeaker system capable of radiating any type of warning signal in the 100-1000 cps range as well as speech. The mechanism of the electropneumatic device is described in detail. Field measurement data on the directional characteristics, maximum range, and the effect of wind, which we gathered on tests performed at Point Montara, Calif., are presented. Aspects of signal duration, threshold, and new requirements for fog signal resulting from new trends in coastal shipping patterns, as for example, the increase in private craft, are discussed."
"The recently issued CBS STR-100 stereophonic test record enables the user to make a rapid and accurate assessment of phonograph pickup characteristics. An important feature of the record is the synchronized sweep frequency bands which are used in conjunction with a level recorder to obtain an automatic plot frequency response and crosstalk in a fraction of the time previously required. A synchronizing circuit for the level recorder is described. Spot frequency band with voice announcements also are provided. Other test bands permit measurement of pickup sensitivity, stylus-tone arm resonance compliance, and wavelength loss based on Miller's equations. A significant proportion of the effort was devoted to calibration of recorded amplitudes. Microscopic, light pattern and variable speed turntable methods were used, and the resultant calibration curves are shown."
"A method of measuring drop-outs from magnetic-tape recording systems has been designed and built so that quantitative data can be quickly obtained from any tape on any machine and under any condition. Conclusions are made as to the relative effects of tape, machines, reels, recording processes, reproducing processes, environmental dirt, tensions, etc., on the drop-out count. It has been found that drop-out measurements can be used to evaluate tape and machines in regards to wear characteristics, to evaluate tape-cleaning methods, and to determine techniques in handling tape and operating tape machines to minimize drop-out effects both for analog and digital applications."
"A new system of electrostatic recording in which electrical charges corresponding to the signal are injected into a thin insulating tape record has been investigated. The recorded charge pattern is produced by the application of ac or dc bias potentials to the recording electrodes, in addition to the signal voltage, and subsequently stabilized by treating the tape surface with ions to neutralize excess charge. Electrostatic recordings with extrapolated lifetimes in excess of several hundred years have been obtained."
"Crossover distortion in a class B transistor power amplifier can be greatly reduced by driving the output stage from a high-impedance source. Doing this capitalizes upon the fact that the current-to-current gain characteristic of a class B stage is much more linear in the crossover region than the voltage-to-current gain. High-impedance drive can be most easily applied to a complementary output stage, but can also be applied to two transistors of the same polarity if a driver transformer is used. In circuits of this type, no temperature-compensated bias arrangements are necessary, and \"thermal runaway\" is virtually impossible, as only one of the output transistors can be biased on at a time. Moreover, reverse bias is applied to the \"off\" transistor, reducing its turn-off time and minimizing the increase in power supply drain at high signal frequencies. Amplifiers designed according to this principle have operated with very low distortion and have exhibited unequalled thermal stability."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The audio-radar monitor recorder is designed to continuously monitor and record 16 audio channels and one radar display on a single reel of magnetic tape. The tape is 2 in wide and moves at the speed of 15/16 ips. Each reel has a time capacitance in excess of 24 hours. The radar recording is accomplished by means of a quantizing system that separates the video signal into 14 low-frequency channels. The PPI radar display is recorded out to a 30 mile range. Range definition between 0 and 20 miles is 0.2 miles and between 20 and 30 miles is 0.33 miles. The azimuth resolution is 1°. During playback, a PPI display, complete with range marks, is shown on the face of a scope. Stationary magnetic-head and slow-speed tape assure trouble-free operation and long life."
"A linear treatment is developed which will predict the conversion efficiency, power output, and power dissipation for sinusoidal Class B push-pull operation of an imperfect device such as a silicon power transistor. Normalized expressions for conversion efficiency, power outputs, and power dissipation as functions of the ratio of load to dc saturation resistance are determined. The results are of particular interest to amplifier designers. Limiting cases are considered in order to indicate the established expressions for the ideal device. Calculated and measured data agree well enough to justify the use of the theory for practical purposes."
"The pickup described will track with a vertical force of 2 grams, on simple but properly designed tone arms. It has a mechanical compliance 6 cm × 10-6/dyne and an effective mass of about 1.4 mg. Output is 0.35 volt. A combination of optimum rubber properties and viscous damping provide a response free of resonances. The design is well suited for quantity production for the home phonograph market. Another paper describes successful tracking of this cartridge in commercially available record changers. In a pickup destined for quantity production, several design factors must be met in order to maintain uniform high performance. It is important that the two ceramic elements be correctly positioned during assembly. In the present design this is done by means of octagonal rubber element mounts which are placed into two semioctagonal channels on mating interfaces of two plastic housing parts. In any two-element stereophonic pickup design, a \"coupler\" is needed to join the two elements to a single stylus arm. Design of the coupler has important bearing on distortion, output level, channel separation, and mechanical impedance. Coupler requirements in the present design have been met by proper configuration and choice of material. Another important design factor is the means provided for pivoting the stylus level arm. For lateral motion, at the stylus, compliance must be high for lateral motion in two degrees of freedom. Rotational compliance, about the lever axis, must be low in order to avoid undesirable rotation of the lever arm. There must be no lateral freedom at the pivot point. Longitudinal compliance of the level arm must be low in the direction of drag from the record groove to avoid frequency modulation effects. The stylus lever mounting arrangement described achieves these design requirements in a simple assembly. A light tube, comprising the lever arm, is flattened at its pivoted end in a manner to produce tapered shoulders. These shoulders are brought to bear against a hole in a small rectangular metal enclosure which is filled with a plastic material having viscoelastic properties. The potting arrangement damps any lever resonances and provides a small restoring force to position the lever for engaging the coupler during change of styli."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The results of a study to determine the feasibility of using the PME effect in semiconductors as a pickup means for information stored on magnetic tape are presented, as well as pertinent information on the performance of a completed device. Because the output voltage of the device is proportional to the product of the instantaneous magnetic flux and the light intensity, reproduction of frequencies down to zero cycles per second is theoretically possible, as well as scanning speeds approaching the speed of light. A partial study of the factors affecting the PME voltage in germanium is also presented."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"A tone arm, capable of tracking phonograph records at 2 grams, for use in record changers is described. The low tracking force is accomplished by introducing an additional degree of freedom in the arm. An equivalent circuit analysis of the new design demonstrates its greater stability in comparison with conventional systems. Such matters as alignment of pivots for minimum frequency modulation and reduced damage to records resulting from accidental scraping are discussed."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers.\""
"The simple magnetic recording model which describes the basic phenomena in terms of the growth and decay of a cylindrical magnetization volume from one side of the tape coating is reviewed. The relevance of practical tape hysteresis loops is considered and a model hysteresis loop developed and applied to the description of the recording process. Areas of applicability for the recording model are described including distortion in ac-bias recording."
"A new, inexpensive permanent magnet material is now available which has a higher magnetic energy than any other ceramic magnet material previously known. It is a modified strontium ferrite. One of its most important applications is in moving coil loudspeakers. Sixteen widely used gap configurations, including the nine Electronic Industries Association standards, with gap energies between 0.1 and 20 mega-ergs are described for which strontium-ferrite rings are used. The leakage permeances, the flux densities inside the magnet, and the permeance of the return circuit are estimated. The process of successive approximations is used to calculate the dimensions of the strontium-ferrite rings. It is found that systems with strontium ferrite are smaller, simpler, and lighter in most cases than equivalent systems with Alnico-5 magnets. This is mainly due to the much lower permeability of strontium ferrite as compared to that of Alnico-5. The low permeability makes limb leakage negligibly small in compact strontium-ferrite structures. Strontium-ferrite speaker systems are particularly suitable for low-cost applications and whenever high gap energies and high gap densities are needed."
"The need for conserving technical manpower in broadcasting operations has spurred interest in automatic level controlling systems to achieve optimum modulation. A set of operating standards can be established so that any system of level control, manual or automatic, can be appraised. These standards temper technical and aesthetic considerations. An examination of the prior art in the field discloses the shortcomings of systems using the conventional approach and the large degree of compromise that must be accepted by their use. A completely new system, the Audimax, employing simple switching logic has been devised which satisfies the requirements of the operating standards with negligible compromise. This system is described in detail. In order to satisfy the level control problems for stereophonic broadcasting, an adapter is provided for use with two Audimax units which makes the system responsive to the sum of the left and right signals. In this way, the stereophonic perspective is maintained and maximum modulation ensured. Operational experience with the Audimax is described briefly."
"Since judgement of distance to a sound source is vague, whereas lateral localization is about 2°, stereo tests were conducted with a single row of sound sources. Live sounds were observed and recorded outdoors; reproduction indoors utilized speakers on a 25-foot array. To express the results a criterion of error was computed which ranged from 0.042 for live listening to 0.60 for 2-loudspeaker stereo without toe-in. Three-loudspeaker arrays with toe-in exhibited criterion-of-error values of 0.11 to 0.14 with no significant difference between 2 and 3 electrical channels."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The space-charge flow solutions described by Kino and others in connection with the crossed-field carcinotron gun can be generalized to form the basis of a magnetron-injection gun design suitable for the production of hollow electron beams. In the first part of the paper this generalization is described. From the resulting flow it is possible to determine by an approximate method the electrodes to produce a gun of desired perveance with nearly uniform current density at the cathode. This technique has been used to design guns having ratios of cathode length to a diameter considerably greater than unity. The close agreement between the results obtained on several experimental guns and the theoretical predictions is described, along with the effect of departures from the prescribed fields given by the design method."
"Many useful conservation theorems are derived for relativistic electron beams and anisotropic plasmas. All these theorems are valid for confined-flow and irrotational-flow devices, and cold, collisionless plasmas. All the theorems are derived in a similar way, and a generalization of this method, using linear operators, is given. Among the power theorems discussed are: Tonks' theorem, the instantaneous and sinusoidal small-signal theorems, the energy theorem, a large-disturbance theorem, the Manley-Rowe formulas, an ac power theorem, and a cross-correlation theorem. Contributions to power and energy from surface waves are included. Allowing for relativistic flow and writing all equations in the laboratory frame does not significantly complicate the theorems, and in fact clarifies them somewhat. Many simple applications are discussed, although not in detail. Among these are: small-signal energy, power, and passivity; energy velocity in electron beam and plasma wave-guides; and a conservation theorem for multiple electron beams and electron beam-plasma interactions."
"A cyclotron wave on a rectilinear filamentary beam can interact with a TE circuit mode of cylindrical symmetry propagating in synchronism with the beam. The interaction results in a periodic variation of the cyclotron transit angle of the electrons, causing a type of circumferential bunching which gives rise to high harmonic content. Provided the RF-field is adjusted to maximize a certain harmonic, its output power increases approximately as the square root of the harmonic number. The bunching is simply a redistribution of the relative positions of the various electrons constituting the original beam, and requires no supply of energy. All power delivered by the generator is therefore dissipated in the RF structure itself. The interaction mechanism is analyzed in detail, using two different approaches leading to the same final results. One is based on a wave description, the other considers the motion of the individual electrons. Possible applications for harmonic generation of high frequencies are discussed."
"Designers of multicavity klystrons, faced with decisions in connection with the drift length/gain/efficiency compromise, can find theoretical treatment in an alarming variety of literature based both on the space-charge wave and the ballistic-electron-bunching theory. The only papers which effectively combine both theories are those of Webber [1], [2], in which a large number of curves representing considerable diversity of conditions have been computed. It has been found that, at the cost of a small error, a rearrangement of these results leads to useful universal curves (Fig. 1) enabling rapid decision making with regard to the effficiency/gain/ drift length compromise, in most situations. Gain calculations using Fig. 2 have given good agreement with practical results."
"The effect of a circuit sever on traveling-wave amplifier efficiency has been calculated from the large-signal traveling-wave tube equations. Measurements made on high-power traveling-wave amplifiers, which utilize a severed coupled-cavity interaction circuit, have confirmed the calculated results. The results show that a traveling-wave amplifier with C = 0.1 and QC = 0.25 must have 26 db or more growing-wave small-signal gain beyond the sever to obtain the maximum theoretical efficiency. If the growing-wave gain is less than this value, efficiency is reduced; for example, if the gain is 4 db less, the efficiency is reduced by one half. The mechanism which causes this reduction of saturated output power can be understood from the computed electron distribution in phase and velocity. From these phase-velocity diagrams, the degradation in efficiency is seen to be caused by the debunching of the beam by space-charge forces in the region between the sever and the point where the microwave signal builds up to the value it previously reached before the sever. Further study of the computer results shows that the loss in efficiency caused by insufficient gain beyond the sever cannot be made up by depressed collector operations, and that the use of over-voltage to obtain increased efficiency in a severed tube may not be effective because of the resulting reduction in gain that over-voltaging causes."
"The equations describing a two-dimensional model of a beam-type crossed-field device are presented in a form adaptable to numerical computations. A method of computing the space-charge forces similar to that used by Tien, Walker, and Wolontis in describing the ordinary traveling-wave tube is outlined and the difficulties associated with this method are pointed out. Numerical results covering the interaction of a thin beam with a backward or a forward wave are presented for a variety of space-charge conditions. Space-charge effects reduce the large-signal gain of a backward-wave amplifier; it appears that 70 per cent conversion of available potential energy to RF energy would be excellent efficiency. Space-charge fields appear to have little influence on forward-wave interaction. For either forward- or backward-wave interaction, the computations indicate that a large fraction of the beam current is collected on a very short length of circuit, thus placing a limitation on the average power capabilities of such a crossed-field device."
"M-type devices such as magnetron oscillators, magnetron amplifiers and backward-wave oscillators always contain a sole plate to provide the static electric field which, together with a transverse static magnetic field, provides electron focusing. The sole plate unavoidably becomes part of the RF structure. It is the purpose of this paper to show the effect of the sole plate on the RF characteristics of the more common slow-wave structures. The results of the study indicate that no slow-wave structure containing a sole plate can be truly a backward-wave structure. The fundamental space harmonic must contain a region wherein the phase and group velocities are of the same sign. These results are predicted by a field analysis of the uniform-vane, strapped magnetron anode system. Such an analysis is made possible by two simplifying assumptions. The first assumption is that the interaction space between anode and sole can be replaced by an equivalent linear structure. In this way, the derived expressions for admittance become infinite series of exponential functions rather than infinite series of untabulated higher order Bessel functions. The second assumption is that the fields peculiar to the straps can be described by TEM waves. This assumption allows one to formulate a strap admittance which is in parallel with the admittance of the interaction space and the side cavity. The resultant dispersion equation can be solved graphically for the frequency-phase shift characteristic of the composite system. This analysis predicts that the straps may be either capacitive or inductive depending upon mode number, frequency and geometry. It shows that the frequency-phase shift characteristic is not simply derivable from the unstrapped anode system by the addition of a constant phase shift. It shows further that the fundamental space harmonic must contain a region wherein the phase and group velocities are of the same sign, i.e., the anode system is not, and cannot be, a simple backward-wave structure. These results are verified in detail by a careful and complete experimental study on a standard strapped magnetron anode structure. They are further verified by a second experimental study of the very common interdigital line structure."
"This paper presents an analysis of the distributed interaction klystron using a simplified traveling-wave approach. The coupled-mode theory is used under the assumption that the behavior of the device can be adequately described by the interaction of the slow space-charge wave with a traveling circuit wave. It is shown that the description is equivalent to the klystron approach previously used to analyze the device."
"The problem of calculating electron trajectories in an electrostatic field is solved in two steps. First, the potential distribution for a given electrode configuration is found by means of a high precision resistor network. The second step requires a series of numerical calculations using the above potential values to determine the electron trajectories. All mathematical operations have been programmed for an IBM 709 digital computer. Three different mathematical methods are presented and compared. To check their accuracy test problems involving simple electrode configurations, for which the trajectories can be calculated analytically, were used. The error of a trajectory is defined by\\delta/l, where δ is the maximum transverse deviation of a trajectory from its correct position andlis the length of the trajectory. Using the most accurate of the three methods for an electron in a homogeneous electric field between parallel planes the average error was1.3 \\times 10^{-4}. With the electric field between concentric spheres the average error was4 \\times 10^{-3}. The method of ray tracing described can be used for two-dimensional(x, y)and axially symmetric(r, z)fields. Space charge and magnetic fields can be taken into account. The time for calculating one trajectory over the whole length of the resistor network (50 units) is approximately 25 s."
"In this paper the interaction between electron beams and coupled helices is studied and generalized to include the effects of 1) space chargeQC; 2) finite circuit lossd; 3) finite values of gain parameterC; 4) an unrestricted coupling parameterk, and 5) the effect of having a large positive value of the velocity parameterbsuch that the propagation constants are purely imaginary. A general determinantal equation including all these factors is derived from the coupled-circuit equations and the stream equation. Curves of the propagation constants for a variety of operating parameters are shown. Attention is called to the fact that a region of growing wave is found for large positivebfor extremely tight coupling. The extent to which the \"growing-wave island\" is affected by the various operating parameters is also illustrated. Equations for the outer and inner helixr-fvoltages are derived and from which curves of the propagatingr-fpowers along the helices are computed and plotted. Positions for maximum transfer of energy between the helices can be deduced and the extent to which they are affected by the various Parameters is discussed."
"Sah, Noyce and Shockley have attributed the decrease in the current gain of silicon transistors to recombination in the space-charge region of the emitter-base junction. It is suggested that for oxide-masked diffused structures the space-charge recombination current is concentrated at the junction periphery at or just under the surface. An analysis is presented which shows that measurement of the base current of transistor structures with two base contacts, as a function of voltage applied between the two base contacts, may be used to distinguish between recombination current which is concentrated at or near the surface periphery of the junction space-charge region, and recombination current distributed over the area of the junction. For the diffused structures examined, it is shown experimentally that the recombination takes place mainly at or near the junction surface periphery."
"Following the development of the cut channel field effect current limiter by Warner, et al. an all-diffused device was designed and fabricated. This paper describes the design parameters as well as the critical fabrication procedures and control limits that were found necessary in order to prepare satisfactory devices. The current limiters were prepared from 3-mil thick slices of 50 ohm-cm, n-type silicon into which 1-mil thick gates were diffused. It is evident from the data that the tolerances for reproducibility of electrical characteristics fall within the expected variations due to diffusion control and parallel polishing of the sample if the background resistivity remains constant. However, because of the many thermal processing steps required in the fabrication procedure, variations occur in the effective impurity content in the high resistivity material. It is seen that the dependence of the electrical behavior of the devices on these variations is critical."
"The tunneling probability in an Esaki diode is very much dependent on the electric field strength which is itself dependent on the local fluctuations of ion concentration. The fluctuation of depletion layer thickness due to randomness of ion position is calculated. It is shown that most of the tunneling current is carried by only a small fraction of the total area."
"The current flowing in a semiconductor junction may be divided into four components according to the location of the recombination and generation of electrons and holes. These are: 1) the bulk recombination-generation or the diffusion current, 2) the bulk recombination-generation current in the transition region, 3) the surface recombination-generation current in the transition region, and 4) the surface channel current. The current-voltage relationship for these four current components may be approximated byI = I_{s} \\exp (qV/mkT), ifV > 4kT/q. Analysis shows that the reciprocal slopemfor the current components 1) to 3) lies between 1 and 2, while for the surface channel current component 4)mis greater than 2 for silicon junctions and may be more than 4 for large channels. The theoretical expressions for these four current components are tested with extensive experimental data taken on silicon junctions and found to account for all of the observed current-voltage characteristics. The importance of surface recombinations and surface channels on the current gain of silicon transistor is also demonstrated experimentally. The experimental data are in accord with the theoretical prediction based on the transistor current equations which include the carrier recombination in the emitter junction and the carrier generation in the collector junction."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper is concerned with a method of noise measurement which permits improved accuracy by circumventing some of the problems of the usual comparison techniques. Results are presented of measurements of Ieqand Rnshowing good agreement between theory and experiment. It is suggested that noise measurements may be a very satisfactory method of determining the effective base resistance for inhomogeneous structures. The theoretical representation of the noise sources, including the effect of generation-recombination in the emitter-base region, is summarized in the appendix."
"\"Second breakdown\" in transistors has been characterized as an abrupt reduction in VCE, at a collector current designated by IM, when the transistor is swept through its VCEvs ICcharacteristics. A critical review of the literature concerning this phenomenon and a more complete description of its characteristics are given. It appears that \"second breakdown\" is a more fundamental property of the transistor than has previously been thought. Each of the mechanisms thus far considered in the literature, in particular the \"pinch-in\" effect and p-n-p-n action, has been examined and found inadequate. The apparent dependence of the initiation of the phenomenon on the quantity of energy absorbed, and on the ambient temperature, indicates that it may be related to some thermal mechanism. This points to the importance of examining \"second breakdown\" in terms of energy dissipated rather than in terms of voltage or current as has been done to date."
"For the double-diffused transistor, a one-dimensional analysis is presented on the minority carrier injection properties of a diffused emitter junction. This junction is bounded on one side by a reverse biased collector and on the other by an ohmic contact of arbitrary recombination velocity. Furthermore, arbitrary magnitudes of minority carrier lifetime are assumed in both the emitter and base regions of this semiconductor device. Injection efficiency characteristics are graphically illustrated throughout a wide range of physical and geometrical parameters. Assuming, for example, variations in the emitter junction depth, injection properties are demonstrated for transistors exhibiting a fixed collector location and also for transistors exhibiting a fixed base width. A comparison is also shown between the calculated minority carrier injection from this analysis and from other, more approximate, methods."
"Forward voltage-current characteristics for planar abrupt junction silicon and germanium diodes are presented. These curves, derived directly from the basic current and continuity equations, extend the knowledge of diode behavior from the low injection region continuously to the high injection region. They include the effects of conductivity modulation, ohmic drop, and electric fields in the base, but neglect space charge recombination currents. The presentation includes treatment of both infinite recombination and majority carrier base contacts. Band pictures for several cases are shown and discussed in terms of the various mechanisms influencing them."
"This article is an analysis of a four-layer semiconductor device known as the binistor. An approximate equivalent of this device may be constructed from suitably connected NPN and PNP transistors. Analysis of the equivalent circuit configuration by means of the small-signal hybrid parameters enables a prediction of the circuit characteristics. From this analysis, it is shown that the device exhibits a voltage-stable negative-resistance characteristic in contrast with the usual current-stable negative resistance obtained from circuits employing a four-layer semiconductor device. This analysis indicates the manner in which the negative-resistance portion of the collector current-voltage characteristic is dependent upon the small-signal parameters of the NPN and PNP transistors and upon a certain resistance external to the device. A linear model of the device is proposed. Use of the model allows a prediction, within experimental accuracy, of the switching characteristics of the binistor used as a bistable device. Switching between the two states may be accomplished by three methods of control. This model suggests that the transfer characteristic between two particular ports should have the hysteresis characteristics of a mechanical relay. This analysis is born out by experiment. A circuit formed by a series combination of two binistors is shown. This circuit has two stable states with a stable output either at essentially the supply voltage, or at approximately ground potential. A modification with an intermediate stable state is also obtainable with the proper bias conditions. A logical extension of the binistor structure to a device that may have any desired number of stable states is proposed and a circuit of this type with three stable states is shown and discussed. Because of certain internal interaction phenomena, the device may be used as a modulator, and an experimental modulator circuit is developed and investigated."
"Closed expressions are derived for the modulus and argument, as well as for the real and imaginary parts of the complex base-transport factor (β) of diffusion and uniform drift-field transistors. Since these expressions involve only trigonometric, exponential, and hyperbolic functions, they are suitable for straightforward numerical computation as well as theoretical analysis. The variation of computed β-cutoff parameters as a function of impurity concentration is illustrated graphically and shown to be in good agreement with an approximate relation between the β-cutoff frequency and transit time due to Moll and Ross."
"It is shown that the observed falloff in the fTof a transistor at high currents is due to the spreading of the neutral base layer into the collector region of the device at high current densities. The base layer spreading mechanism derives from an analysis of the effect of the current-dependent buildup of the mobile-carrier space-charge density in the collector transition layer. Calculations show that at sufficiently high collector current levels, the mobile space-charge density in the collector transition layer cannot be considered negligible in comparison to the fixed charge density of that region. The over-all effect of taking the mobile space charge into account in analyzing the collector transition region is that, at high current densities, the transition region boundary adjacent to the neutral base layer is displaced toward the collector metal contact with increasing collector current. The attendant widening of the neutral base layer results in the observed, high-current falloff in fT. The application of this theory to transistor structures of both the alloy and mesa variety yields, in each case, calculated curves of fTvs Icwhich are in reasonably good agreement with experiment."
"Analysis of the transient switching characteristics of a p-n junction diode is considered a boundary value problem; solution of this problem yields mathematical equations applicable to the design of high-speed computer components. This analytical technique is used to establish the transient current of a semiconductor diode when an external biasing potential is rapidly switched from the forward to the reverse direction. Using a one-dimensional model of finite geometry, minority-carrier storage is assumed within a region of arbitrary lifetime, bounded on one side by the junction and on the other side by an ohmic contact of arbitrary recombination velocity. Further, this region of carrier storage is assumed to contain a drift field of constant magnitude as would result from an exponential type of conductivity grading. Mathematical equations are presented which characterize this transient situation from its initiation until the junction current has decayed to some arbitrary magnitude. Applications of this analysis are illustrated in graphical form throughout a range of parameters characterizing practical semiconductor devices."
"This paper extends the earlier analysis by Kingston of the switching response of a uniform-base diode to a graded-base diode. It concerns the time required to switch a diode from a forward-biased to a reverse-biased condition. The current transient can be separated into two phases: 1) the constant current phase during which the carrier density at the junction changes gradually from a forward-biased to a reverse-biased condition, and 2) the nonconstant current phase during which the injected carriers stored in the base region gradually disappear. In the present analysis, it is found that in a graded-base diode where the impurity concentration decreases from the emitter junction towards the base contact, the time for the constant current phase is greatly shortened because of favorable initial carrier distribution. The effect is already significant if the impurity concentration changes by a factor from 3 to 1 from the emitter junction to the base contact. To shorten the nonconstant current phase, however, a much larger change of impurity concentration, say of the order from 500 to 1, from the emitter junction to the base contact is needed."
"The use of periodic permanent-magnet focusing structures in TWT research is complicated by the difficulty of changing the level of flux density on the axis. It is necessary to completely disassemble the focusing structure and remagnetize each individual magnet. To overcome this difficulty, periodic electromagnets have come into use. Using electromagnets in place of permanent magnets, the flux density on the axis can be changed simply by varying the magnet current. The construction techniques for such magnets are discussed and formulas are given for finding the necessary ampere turns in the windings."
"A method has been devised for analysis of the residual gas content of small tetrodes or pentodes. In contrast to other methods which have been reported, the gas content of the tube being studied is not changed markedly by the analysis; analyses may be made repeatedly as the tube is operated, and moderately low pressures (1 × 10-10mm Hg) and small quantities (10-9cc mm) can be detected. A 90-degree sector magnetic analyzer with a 3-cm radius of curvature and 30-mil slits (resolution 1:20) is sealed to the tube to be analyzed prior to pumping. The analyzer is made of Corning 0120 glass with a conductive lining. The tube being tested serves as an ion source, avoiding the complications of a second hot filament. The device has been calibrated by comparison with known gases on a vacuum station. This method has been applied to study the gas content of the M1941 experimental pentode intended for applications which require extreme life and reliability. The normal gas pressure in this tube, after trolley pumping and 100 hours aging, is about 1 × 10-9mm Hg, predominately He, H2, and CO. When no getters are used, the partial pressures of H2and CO are higher, perhaps 1 × 10-8mm Hg. When titanium-alloy anodes are used in tubes without getters, the partial pressure of hydrogen is much higher, up to 1 × 10-6mm Hg. A number of these tubes have been followed for over 10,000 hours. Concurrent studies of the cathode emission have shown it to be markedly influenced by small partial pressures of hydrogen when pure nickel cathode cores are used. Hydrogen is very effective in raising the emission, but the emission falls quickly as the hydrogen pressure is reduced. At least part of the improved cathode performance observed in tubes with titanium anodes must be attributed to the increased hydrogen pressure which accompanies the use of titanium anodes. These data on hydrogen with pure nickel should not be extrapolated arbitrarily to active cathodes."
"In a television receiver the horizontal deflection is of critical importance because of the high deflection power. Recently various proposals have been published, according to which the electron beam is to be deflected over a small angle only, in order to diminish the deflection power. Subsequently this small deflection angle is to be increased by an electrostatic or magnetic lens. In the present paper, it is shown with the aid of general laws of electron optics that such a scan magnification by an electrostatic or magnetic lens necessarily causes a decrease of the resolution, and thereby, of the quality of the television picture, unless known possibilities of increasing the resolution are employed simultaneously. The calculation also affirms that with magnetic deflection, unlike electrostatic deflection, post-acceleration does not lead to a significant reduction in deflection power with unchanged resolution."
"A class of slow-wave structures, previously proposed for use in the magnetron amplifier, is examined in the linear version for application in a high-power, traveling-wave amplifier. Two versions are studied, both theoretically and experimentally, with particular emphasis on the frequency range suitable for wide-band, high-voltage application."
"The fundamental interaction impedance for a helix surrounded by a dielectric medium and a conducting shield is computed and the result is found to be in good agreement with measurements on several TWT structures. Results obtained in this paper indicate that the addition of a conducting shield around a helix reduces the interaction impedance; this impedance reduction becomes more severe as the shield is brought closer to the helix and as γa, the ratio of helix circumference to guide wavelength, is made smaller. A sheath helix surrounded by a dielectric medium and a conducting shield is used to obtain a factor representing the impedance reduction caused by the shield. This impedance reduction factor is then combined with Tien's factors to compute the helix impedance."
"Helix loss increases the noise figure of a TWT by altering the amplifying properties of the tube, and also by acting as a source of thermal noise which is amplified by interaction with the beam. Noise power originating in the helix propagates as a wave and undergoes amplification in the same manner as the signal. This noise power adds to the noise figure of the tube by an amount proportional to the attenuation of the helix and to its temperature, and inversely proportional to the tube gain per unit length. The effect of refrigerating the helix has been demonstrated by several experiments in which low-noise TWT's were immersed in liquid nitrogen while monitoring the noise figure. The reduction in noise figure varied from a few tenths to nearly one db. One case of particular interest is that of a WJ-226 low-noise TWT, operating in the frequency band 1.4 to 2.3 Gc, which showed a minimum noise figure of 2.6 db when operating in a room temperature environment. On cooling the tube to liquid nitrogen temperature, a minimum noise figure of 1.7 db was obtained, at a frequency of 1.65 Gc."
"A new form of crossed-field microwave and millimeter wave amplifier which combines an interaction process that results in axial gain with a quasi-optical handling of the RF input and output power is described. Because of its functional similarity to a microwave lens and the additional property of amplification, it is called the Electromagnetic Amplifying Lens. Its advantages are outlined, and its interaction mechanism considered in detail. It is shown that the voltage gain is a linear function of distance in the useful operating range. When the RF level is low, interference between forward- and backward-traveling waves on the waveguide results in loss of control of the space charge. This phenomenon limits the gain available with stable device operation; useful gain of at least 20 db is theoretically possible with a bandwidth of several per cent. The crossed-field interaction principle that is employed assures efficiencies of better than 50 per cent."
"A new filter-type slow-wave structure, which is considered as an interdigital line loaded with inductance in shunt, is described in this paper. The results of the cold-test study of the structure are presented in terms of the phase velocity and impedance measurements. For the structure studied, interaction takes place between multiple electron streams and the axial electric field of the +1 space harmonic. The circuit has broad-band properties of phase and interaction impedance as a circuit for a traveling-wave amplifier. The maximum deviation of the phase velocity for a 30 per cent bandwidth has a value on the order of ±0.3 per cent. The structure is suitable for use as a high-power amplifier operating with a 20 per cent bandwidth in the millimeter-wave region."
"The design and performance of electron guns producing high-average-power beams which are controlled by an intercepting-type grid are described. The design consists of a modification of the design of Pierce-type electron guns to allow for the effect of grid insertion, and calculation of the amplification factors based on the potential distribution. The performance is evaluated in terms of the beam shapes and average beam powers obtainable. Measured amplification factors are compared with calculated values. Factors influencing the measured beam shapes are discussed. Trajectories of electrons emitted as secondaries from the grid and those of electrons deflected by the lens effect of the grid wires were plotted using an analog computer and electrolytic tank. The shapes and focusing properties of electron beams from similar gridded and nongridded guns are compared. Expressions relating the average beam power capability to the gun and grid dimensions are developed. The calculated average beam power capabilities are compared with measured values. Average beam power as high as 8 kw has been obtained with electron guns of a size suitable for use in X-band twt's."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The multiple-beam klystron (MBK) is a device for extending klystron power generation capability at a given frequency by a factor of ten or more. The MBK utilizes a multiplicity of electron beams in conjunction with multiwavelength waveguide circuits. These circuits are periodically loaded and operate in the\\pi/2-mode. The efficiency, bandwidth, gain and stability of the MBK are equal to or better than that of the single-beam prototype klystron. Furthermore, the MBK permits generation of a given power level at an unusually low voltage, thus minimizing insulation, X-radiation, and modulator problems. An MBK utilizing ten external-circuit klystrons has been built for 750-Mc operation to demonstrate the principle of the device. A single main magnetic circuit is used to focus all beams simultaneously. An RF power output ten times that of one klystron was measured, corresponding to an efficiency of 44 per cent. Bandwidth and gain were identical with single-beam prototype operation. Individual beam drop-out tests were made which showed no disruption of operation in case of the failure of one or more beams. Limited tests tend to confirm the conclusion that the harmonic content of an MBK can be lower than that of a single-beam klystron."
"Simultaneous modulation of the reflector and beam voltages of a reflex klystron will produce frequency modulation with minimum incidental amplitude modulation. The required variation of reflector voltage with beam voltage, for constant output power, is derived from the fundamental equations of the reflex klystron. Experimental verification of this analysis is presented. Reflex klystron oscillators which can be frequency modulated with minimum incidental amplitude modulation find application in FM Doppler radars, communications systems, and as signal sources for microwave testing."
"The phenomenon of phase focusing in linear-beam devices is investigated theoretically by modifying the nonlinear interaction equations for devices such as the traveling-wave amplifier (TWA) to accommodate spatially-varying parameters and then investigating their use under a variety of operating conditions. Phase focusing can be accomplished either by tapering the RF circuit phase velocity or by applying a dc voltage gradient along the beam or structure. Both approximate analytical solutions and general computer solutions are presented for each of the phase-focusing techniques. The analytic solutions yield profiles which are explicit functions of tube length and these are compared with more general computer solutions where space-charge effects are included. An experimental S-band high-power TWA was constructed with a variable-pitch helix designed on the basis of the hard-kernel-bunch theory. Experimental data indicate an efficiency improvement from 18 per cent to 35 per cent and an improvement in the gain-frequency characteristics."
"A new glow discharge indicator tube was developed for the purpose of obtaining a visible indication of the small-signal voltage obtained from transistors or other small-signal sources. The principle of operation is based upon the current transfer between two adjacent cathodes. In this indicator tube about 60 Mw (200 v 300µa) of power dissipation is required to keep the glow on the sustaining cathode, and only a few volts of negative potential are required to transfer the glow to the indicator cathode. In addition to its ability to indicate very small signals, this tube has several other outstanding features. These are 1) small size, 2) small power dissipation, 3) stable characteristics, and 4) long life compared with other types of indicators (e.g., a lamp or a gas-filled tube indicator). This paper describes in detail the principle of operation, construction, electrical characteristics and applications of a new type of indicator for small signals."
"Measurements of the arc voltage and electron temperature were made on low-pressure arcs utilizing a mercury-pool cathode containing various concentrations of alkali metals. The arc-burning voltage was substantially lower than the pure mercury arc and the minimum arc voltage depended on the concentration of the alkali metal and ambient tube temperature. The measurements suggest that there are three processes which collectively are responsible for the arc behavior. These are a lower anode work function, a Penning two-stage ionization process of alkali metal atoms by mercury metastables and an improved electron emission by reliable anchoring of the cathode spot. With the addition of small amounts of alkali metal the cathode spot emission zone was stable on a molybdenum anchor at currents as high as 200 a. The cathode fall potential was the order of 4 v. It is shown that the voltage reduction is mainly in the cathode fall region and that it is lower for rubidium than cesium, potassium or sodium in the preceding order."
"A 5-inch microspot tube with a spot size of 8 to 9 microns and a beam current of 1.5 µa is described. The neck of this tube uses an accelerating spiral anode, in combination with a decelerating prefocus lens. This combination stretches the 6-inch neck structure to an effective length of 13 to 16 inches. The resulting demagnification of 0.6 permits realizing the above spot size as an electron image of a 1/2 mil object-aperture. The latter is illuminated with a current density of 20a/cm2by a microgun, which uses an impregnated cathode at 2a/cm2. The microgun operates by the FRM principle (\"Focus Reflex Modulation\"). An improved vapor-reacted screen is employed, whose light output is more than tripled from previous types of transparent phosphors."
"An electron beam in the presence of an axial magnetic field supports four transverse waves; two cyclotron waves, and two synchronous waves. A general coupling theory is developed from an electronic equation and a circuit equation to describe how these waves can be coupled to traveling-wave circuits. The polarization and power flow characteristics of the waves are derived. The theory is applied to. the bifilar helix, a circuit which can couple selectively to each of the four modes. A bifilar helix traveling-wave tube was used to investigate experimentally the four beam modes and provide a quantitative check of the coupling theory."
"The accuracy with which the Beatie lumped model represents transistor noise performance is experimentally verified. The noise model consists of three statistically independent shot-noise generators connected across the lumped elements representing the generation-recombination and diffusion mechanisms of the transistor. In addition a thermal-noise generator is used to represent the noise contributed by the base spreading resistance. By comparing measurements with calculations based on the model, not only is good over-all agreement obtained, but it becomes evident that certain bias and source conditions allow separate confirmation of the internally postulated noise generators. The statistical properties of transistor noise are studied using a laboratory-constructed amplitude-probability density analyzer. The results show that the first-order amplitude distribution function of transistors is indeed gaussian."
"The construction of semiconductor devices, as well as other electron devices, often requires the utilization of brittle materials, such as the semiconductor itself, as part of a larger structure. Thermal stress, caused by cooling from high temperature bonding operations, can cause fracture of the brittle part, due to thermal expansivity mismatch with other parts of the structure. This paper considers a widely used type of bond, consisting of a nonpenetrating butt-joint, wherein the parts develop thermal stresses by reason of shear constraint in a solder layer. This type of joint is therefore called a shear-constrained bond. A one-dimensional, elastic analytical model is presented, which predicts the location and orientation of the principal tensile stress in a shear-constrained brittle strip. The tensile stress required for brittle fracture is shown to be induced, primarily, by shear tractions in the solder layer which are applied to one face of the strip. Extended to a real structure, the model would predict the highest tensile stress at the outer periphery of a bond, and oriented at 45° with the plane of the bond interface. This prediction is found to be in agreement with the bulk of fracture experience in shear-constrained semiconductors."
"Low-frequency noise measurements are shown to provide a convenient and reasonably accurate (±10 per cent) means of measuring r'_{b}. Their application to the measurement of the factornin the junction lawp_{e} = p_{n} (e_^{qV/nkT} - 1)is also described, though the values ofnobtained from noise measurements do not check accurately with the values ofndetermined by other methods. Experimental determinations of the variation of low-frequency noise figure with emitter-bias current are also presented for several transistor types. The observed behavior suggests that the principal source of1/fnoise in low-noise transistors may be in the emitter-base transition region instead of on the base surfaces where it is placed in presently accepted noise models."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A microwave phototube for demodulating frequency-modulated light signals is proposed. The demodulation is based upon the conversion of the frequency-modulated light into space-modulated light via an optical dispersing element. This space-modulated light is then incident on a photocathode where it is the source of transverse electron beam waves. A complete spectral analysis of the demodulation process is presented. It is shown that a quasi-steady-state viewpoint, i. e., that of an optical signal with slowly varying frequency is permissible only if the optical resolution is sufficiently low. Design parameters for a phototube based on the use of a Michelson echelon are presented. A related scheme employing a Fabry-Perot etalon is also discussed."
"The purpose of this paper is to present in some detail the operation of a parametric amplifier pumped subharmonically as compared to being directly pumped. As considered here, subharmonic pumping does not involve harmonic pump power generation (external to the varactor) but the utilization of higher-order time-dependent capacitances to yield parametric amplification by employing, basically, only a three-frequency system. The analysis given here is based on an evaluation of the Fourier series representation of the time-dependent capacitance resulting from large-signal (\"hard\") pumping of varactors. This evaluation indicates that significant values of higher-order time-dependent capacitances suitable for parametric amplification are obtained with relative pump swings in excess of about 90 per cent. Utilizing these higher-order time-dependent capacitances, the amplifier operation for various orders of subharmonic pumping is treated, including such factors as pump power requirements, gain, and noise figure. It is shown that, under certain conditions, less pump power is required to generate the same negative conductance than with direct fundamental pumping. Furthermore, for the same pump power and fundamental pump frequency, it is determined that significant improvements in amplifier noise figure are achieved by employing subharmonic pumping, provided varactor losses are small. From the results obtained by both analysis and experiment, it is concluded that subharmonic pumping, even without harmonic power generation, is not only feasible but can be very useful up to C-band signal frequencies with existing varactors."
"A nonreentrant beam, distributed-emission, crossed-field, forward-wave amplifier, the DEMATRON, is described. The difficulties encountered by early experimenters in achieving gain in excess of 6 db in nonreentrant, crossed-field amplifiers are overcome in the DEMATRON by use of either an electron velocity taper or circuit velocity taper. A crossed-field amplifier design theory is given which is based on the use of equivalent magnetrons, and which takes into account the need for velocity compensation. In practice, electron velocity compensation is accomplished by either changing the sole-anode spacing, or by varying the dc magnetic field or a combination of both. Experiments with the DEMATRON have yielded gains in excess of 10 db over a 15 per cent bandwidth. Power levels between 300 and 500 kw have been achieved at an operating voltage of 25 kv. The design theory has been experimentally shown to be quite satisfactory in the large-signal, saturated gain region of operation, However, the lack of adequate small-signal theory has thus far prevented full optimization of the velocity compensation."
"A traveling-wave tube with a prebunched beam is found to have a considerably higher efficiency than the same tube without prebunching. For the particular tube tested the efficiency is increased from 20 to over 35 per cent at a gain of 8. Computer calculations using a discrete disk model give similar results. The beam is bunched tightly in energy at the position of highest efficiency, indicating that very high efficiency could be obtained with a depressed collector. Both current and velocity modulation are required for prebunching, and are obtained by means of a current grid followed by an inductively tuned velocity modulation cavity. The requirements of the current grid are not great so that operation should be possible at frequencies well above the normal operating region of a microwave triode. The operation of the tube is sensitive to the output match, and it appears to be difficult to obtain a good match with the beam on."
"In an earlier report on the construction and performance of the electron cyclotron backward-wave oscillator, it was shown, through physical arguments, that in an unloaded waveguide supporting the dominant mode, an electron having transverse rotation at its cyclotron frequency will interact with RF fields of approximately equal frequency. This transverse motion will deliver energy to the RF E fields and interact with the RF H fields, thus producing longitudinal bunching. A small-signal analysis is presented in this paper. With the use of the normal mode expansion analysis, the circuit equation is obtained by considering the normal mode in approximate synchronism with the beam. The RF current is computed by considering electron motion under the dc and circuit fields, but neglecting RF space-charge fields. Combining these equations leads to a sixth-order equation of propagation constants. Two waves are far from synchronism and are therefore neglected; the remaining four are two waves which originate from the \"fast cyclotron waves\" and two waves which originate from the forward and reflected circuit waves. The \"fast cyclotron wave\" so obtained has a different meaning from the usual definition and is discussed in detail. Theoretical start-oscillation current is found to depend critically on the reflection coefficient at the electron gun end. Proper adjustment of this parameter leads to excellent agreement between the theoretical and experimental start-oscillation currents."
"Three tunnel-diode converter circuits-the Storm and Shattuck circuit, a push-pull version, and the Marzolf circuit-are analyzed graphically to obtain waveforms for both inverter and dc converter operation. Simple expressions are found for diode efficiency in ideal dc converter operation. The efficiencies are the same except that the efficiency of the Marzolf circuit is reduced by the magnetizing current required for the square-loop core. However, the Marzolf circuit has a more nearly square waveform and would require less filtering for dc conversion. The results point up the importance of developing tunnel diodes with high peak-to-valley ratios for converter application."
"The noise performance of negative conductance amplifiers with outputs via circulators or isolators is developed using a traveling-wave approach. Included is a treatment of a quasi-degenerate parametric amplifier. It is shown that this amplifier has severe limitations as a low-noise amplifier."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The continuous cathode crossed-field amplifier, a device characterized by high eificiency and low phase pushing, is considered in terms of wave theory. Based on analytical treatments that have appeared in the literature, a plasma propagation constant is postulated and correlated with observed experimental results. From this, a qualitative concept of mode coupling is dxawn which has proven to be of great value in understanding crossed-field devices and in predicting the characteristics of newly designed tubes. Following a brief section devoted to the crossed-field diode, the experimental observations which led to the theory are presented, culminating in a coupling-of-modes picture of the interaction which is similar to the familiar beam tube treatment. Relationships necessary for checking the theory are given and attention is paid to several important observations affecting design."
"The paper is concerned with a general analysis of noise in dc-pumped amplifiers based on transverse waves. It is shown that any amplifier involving either the cyclotron waves or the synchronous waves has the same minimum noise temperature determined by the conditions at the cathode. The noise temperature can be reduced to an arbitrarily small value by increasing the magnetic field at the cathode or by reducing the cathode diameter. It is also shown that the minimum noise temperature is reduced by the smoothing effect of the potential minimum near the cathode. The minimum noise temperature can be realized by inserting a suitable noise transformer between the cathode and the amplifier. In general, structures with electric or magnetic fields having rotational symmetry such as used in normal electron guns can perform the required transformation. Some specific examples of noise transformers are discussed."
"A demagnification gun of high resolution was developed for thermoplastic recording by deflecting the electron beam at the entry of a large focusing lens. The unconventional approach of prefocus deflection allows close spacing between the \"short\" focusing lens and the target (phosphor screen or thermoplastic tape) required for demagnification and results in a gun with a relatively short length. The diameter of the focusing lens is about three times larger than the 25-mm diameter area to be scanned in order to keep spot distortions of the deflected beam at a minimum. Electrostatic focusing combined with magnetic deflection was selected. The special focusing lens that is used is shaped for low aberrations, increased demagnification and increased deflection sensitivity. Small deflection fields are required since the electron beam is being deflected in the accelerating field while the electron velocities are still low. The gun operates at 10 kv and delivers a 5-micron spot at 1µa. This corresponds to a resolution of 5000 spot diameters at average current densities in excess of 5 amp/cm2. In spite of the high resolution, the over-all length of the gun measured from the target is only 9 inches."
"The phenomenon of electron bombardment heating of insulators in vacuum under the influence of RF fields by several types of multipactor processes is reviewed. Evidence is given to show that a practical way of limiting the electron bombardment of insulators is to provide surfaces which have a maximum secondary electron emission yield of less than one on both the insulator and on the related metal surfaces. Thin films of titanium metal are shown to have a very good effect on suppressing the secondary electron multiplication processes at both the metal and dielectric. The discontinuous nature of very thin metal films makes it possible to coat dielectrics with titanium with thicknesses sufficient to reduce the secondary emission yield without adding significantly to the loss factor or to the dc conductivity."
"The Radiation Tracking Transducer utilizes the ateral photovoltages which arise from a spot of light incident on silicon p-n junction in order to define the position of the light spot. Recent advances in the theoretical understanding of this device are incorporated into a more detailed analysis of the device equations than was previously available. In addition, the effect of boundary conditions at the edge of the junction and the behavior of the device with a uniform background illumination are analyzed."
"General expressions have been derived for the impedance of rectangular and circular Esaki diodes which take account of the distributed nature of diodes with large-junction area. These expressions have been used to calculate the diode dimensions for which self-supporting internal oscillations can occur. Simple expressions have been derived for the series-parasitic impedance of diodes with smaller transverse dimensions."
"Usual analyses of the current-saturated condition for the junction triode transistor have related storage time and the emitter-to-collector ON voltage to current density and the forward and inverse alpha. It is shown here that in the current-saturated condition the stored charge is proportional to current and to base transit time, and is reciprocal to the emitter-to-collector ON voltage. This reciprocity is linear when the collector-to base junction is significantly forward biased. As current injected at the collector becomes small in comparison to that which it receives from the emitter, the stored charge approaches a minimum for the given emitter-to-collector current and collector-to-emitter voltage rises without appreciable decrease of stored charge. These results can also be obtained by regarding the conductivity modulated base layer as a resistor whose resistance is reciprocal to the stored charge. An obvious conclusion is that extremely low Ebers-Moll electronic ON voltage is undesirable in fast switching transistors designed for maximum speed. An optimum value of the ON voltage appears to be around 0.06 volts for homogeneous base transistors and perhaps 0.12 volts for diffused base structures."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In this paper experiments with a \"long\" crossed-field gun, designed by a method given by Kino, are described. This gun yielded the predicted value of current, but the other characteristics of the beam were not in accordance with the results of the theory. Experiments were carried out from which it may be concluded that there are RF instabilities present in the beam, instabilities which grow in the drift region and are generated at the cathode. The rate of growth of these instabilities is of the same order as the rate of growth of RF fields given by the theory of McFarlane and Hay."
"Coherent microwave power in the 100-mw level is produced by the bremsstrahlung radiation of a prebunched 0.8 Mev beam. Two different schemes are analyzed and tested. The first consists of a prebunched beam impinging on a flat conducting surface; the second consists of a beam striking a flat dielectric surface. The power and radiation resistance in the frequency range between 30 and 40 kMc are measured and compared with theory. It is shown that the radiation resistance is independent of frequency as long as the bunch size is small compared to a wavelength and the structure is nondispersive. The power is in the form of periodic large bursts of energy; the duration of each burst is about 2 × 10-12sec. The condition of coherence of electromagnetic radiation requires that the beam be pointwise tight in space. Hence a magnetic lens is used to focus the megavolt beam on the point of impact and thereby obtain power at the 42nd harmonic of the fundamental bunching frequency, i.e., at a wavelength equal to 2.56 mm. Based on the results obtained, the utility of bremsstrahlung radiation is discussed as a means of generating coherent power in the submillimeter region."
"Coupled-mode theory has been used to demonstrate that the inclusion of higher order mixing products does not seriously affect the performance of the space-charge-wave noise exchanger recently proposed by Sturrock[3]. Estimates of the effects of the pump modulation (necessarily induced on the electron stream in the exchanger) on the gain and noise performance of a traveling-wave amplifier are obtained. Noise temperatures on the order of 100 °K are indicated if the cathode temperature is assumed to be 1000 °K."
"An 11-channel switch tube with 5 stages of electron multiplication has been developed. In some applications the switch tube will replace the camera-oscilloscope system for recording the rise times of electrical signals. This tube will be used to convert wide-band information from a single channel into eleven channels of lower bandwidth information which can be transmitted over standard telephone cables for telemetering operations. Venetian-blind dynodes are used for the multiplier structure. Each channel is defined by a pair of louvers on the dynode disk. U-shaped shields, which just straddle the louver edge of the preceding dynode, are used to minimize crosstalk. The channel width is 0.120 inch or a total length of 1.32 in for the 11 channels. The collector system provides a method for equalizing the gain of all the channels. The switch tube is 3 in in diameter and 24 in in length. Operating at a 4-kv beam potential with 2-µa beam current, the tube provides 20 ma of output current, with less than 5 per cent crosstalk to adjacent channels. The electron optics and the performance of the tube are described."
"The superconducting tunnel junction has been tested in a few simple circuits to explore some of its possibilities. The highest operating frequency used was 4 Mc."
"The effects of conductivity modulation on the terminal characteristics of a semiconductor device are analyzed. Considerable attention is paid to the accompanying reactive effects. The solution for the flow of added carriers is based upon the assumption of quasi-charge neutrality and absence of trapping effects. A double-base diode structure is selected to investigate the transient and ac steady-state effects associated with conductivity modulation, since conductivity modulation by injected carriers proves to be strong in this device. The input characteristics of the double-base diode are considered in this paper. Reactive effects (both inductive and capacitive) in p-n junction diodes, previously reported by other researchers, are easily derived as a special case of the more general structure studied here. Two models are employed in the analysis. One model is used to study double-base diodes made of extrinsic filaments. Here, due to the externally applied electric field, injected carriers are transported essentially by the drift mechanism. The second model describes devices constructed of high resistivity material such that excess carriers are transported primarily by diffusion, as in an intrinsic structure. However in both models drift currents are responsible for inductive and negative resistive effects. The input static characteristics, transient effects and impedance predicted from theory are in good agreement with those observed experimentally."
"The well-known falloff of alpha at low current in silicon has been investigated by means of transistors with guardring emitters. It has been found that the overwhelming part of the base current (at low currents) originates at the surface edge of the emitter. When this current is well understood in terms of existing theory."
"A one-dimensional analysis is presented on the avalanche breakdown characteristics of a diffused p-n junction diode. By numerically integrating the carrier ionization rate in a junction space-charge layer, avalanche breakdown voltage is calculated for diffused diodes of silicon and germanium; this voltage is graphically illustrated throughout a range of parameters applicable to most practical situations. In addition, for calculating the maximum cutoff frequency of varactor diodes, junction capacity is similarly illustrated assuming the device is biased to avalanche breakdown. From these illustrations, and from an accompanying nomograph which relates the physical constants of a junction to its impurity atom gradient, the above parameters can be readily established without additional calculations. Further, examples are also presented to demonstrate the reduction of breakdown voltage resulting from a rapid increase of conductivity within the space-charge layer of a diffused p-n junction; this situation approximates many epitaxial and double diffused structures."
"A particular harmonic generator circuit using an ideal nonlinear capacitor is analyzed and theoretical expressions are obtained for the loss involved in generating a high-order harmonic. The harmonic energy is developed in a load resistor either as an exponentially decaying sine wave or as a pulse. The analysis is valid for harmonics of about the tenth or greater. The results are presented in a graphical form that allows the losses involved to be found easily and it is thus shown that the minimum loss in generating a high-order harmonic by this circuit is about 8.5 db independent of the order of the harmonic. The degree to which a charge storage diode approximates to an ideal nonlinear capacitor is then discussed and some experimental results using such a diode are presented."
"The differential equation which has been derived by earlier workers for minority carrier storage in the base of a one-dimensional transistor model has been solved for storage time assuming a general, time dependent, OFF base current. Specific base currents treated include those encountered when driving the base with a step, ramp, or exponential voltage in series with a speed-up network. The theoretical results are compared with the storage time observed for germanium mesa, MADT,d PADT, and epitaxial transistors in the common emitter configuration. Although the solution obtained assumes minority carriers are stored predominately in the base, the agreement between theory and observed results for mesa units, which have carrier storage in the collector also, is good."
"The symmetrical p-n-p structure may, under certain conditions, exhibit an effective nonlinear capacitance. These conditions are derived making use of Baker's method of charge analysis. The nonlinearity is essentially due to the nonconstancy of the reverse current of each junction, brought about by properly doping the depletion layer space charge regions."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"A beam deflection tube has been developed which will convert an amplitude modulated signal into a nine-digit binary pulse code modulated signal at sampling speeds in excess of 12 mcs/sec. The tube employs a ribbon beam which is electrostatically deflected over nine columns of apertures in a code plate. This paper describes the tube and the critical tolerances required to achieve a signal-to-noise ratio of 54 db, which is within 3 db of the theoretical limit for a nine-digit encoder. The fabrication techniques which were required to achieve these tolerances are radically different from those used in the encoding tube described at the 1960 Electron Device Meeting. Factors that degrade encoding accuracy include thin oxide films on electrodes and residual gas pressure; techniques for minimizing these effects will be discussed. A secondary emitting target comprised of gold sputtered on a molybdenum substrate, found to be very stable in accelerated aging tests, has been evolved. An output current of 5/µamps per digit is achieved with a peak cathode loading of approximately 100 ma/cm2."
"Westinghouse has been developing for the Aerial Reconnaissance Laboratory of the Aeronautical Systems Division, under Air Force Contract No. AF33"
"An analysis of target scan parameters as they affect the performance of electron-bombardment-induced-conductivity (EBIC) and photoconductive (PC) camera tubes is presented. The signal currents and the associated surface potentials are determined analytically as a function of the excited target resistance, beam current, and the secondary emission characteristics of the target surface. Experimental techniques for measuring the pertinent parameters by application of this analysis are described, and characteristic data for PC and EBIC-type camera tubes presented. The effect of these parameters on the signal-to-noise ratios and ultimate resolving capabilities of these types of camera tubes are compared with similar data on image orthicon type tubes."
"During recent years zoom-lenses have been increasingly used in film and television cameras, instead of the more conventional lens-turret. In those cases where the optical image is fed to an image tube, such as an image converter or a television camera tube with image section, the same effect of continuously variable magnification of the image can be achieved electronically while employing a single optical lens with fixed focal length. This is possible by varying the magnification of the electron image in the tube as determined by the electron optical focusing system."
"Modern space technology with its emphasis on weight reduction has enhanced the interest in a high quality vidicon with fully electrostatic electron optics. Previous experience seemed to indicate that the electrostatic vidicon is more limited than its electro-magnetic counterpart in three main aspects including: 1. Picture resolution, 2. Background uniformity, and 3. Signal output capability. A development just completed in the Cathode Ray Tube Department of the General Electric Company proves that all three handicaps may be overcome by design. An electrostatic vidicon has been developed which yields 800 line TV resolution on a uniform background, it needs only 35 volts transistorized sweep per plate and does not require a well regulated power supply. Beam current and signal output are comparable to standard vidicons over a wide range of illumination."
"The Three-Dimensional Display Tube is a novel type of cathode-ray tube that directly displays volumetric analogue information. In contrast to other presentations in which the third dimension is simulated stereoscopically or with color, this device displays the information in actual space. The 3-D Display Tube utilizes a phosphor-coated disc spinning at 900 rpm within an evacuated sphere. Upon excitation by a cathode-ray beam at selected times, any point inthe volume \"swept out\" by the rotating disc may be illuminated at 30 cps. The result is true volumetric analogue display, which is visible without any special viewing position or glasses. Thus, minimum observer fatigue and equal display resolution in depth are possible as compared with existing stereoscopic 3-D display. Different color phosphors on either side of the disc and appropriate cathode-ray beam gating provide a simple means of two-color display. Also, special deflection scans that are compatible with particular display requirements can result in a display equal in brightness and quality to commercial television display. Technical aspects of this type of div play such as brightness, data storage requirements, and feed circuit bandwidths will be discussed."
"Because of the large energy gap and very high electron mobility, gallium arsenide is theoretically the best suited semiconductor for the fabrication of high Q microwave diodes. Until recently, these properties could not be fully utilized for the fabrication of high voltage diodes suitable for harmonic generation and microwave switching becausep\\nu n+structures with very thin ν regions could not be readily achieved. This paper describes epitaxial gallium arsenide diodes which combine high breakdown voltages with very low series resistances and permit full utilization of the inherent advantages of gallium arsenide. Breakdown voltages in excess of 200 volts were achieved with cutoff frequencies exceeding 100 kmc at -10 volts bias and power dissipations in the order of one watt. The electrical characteristics of these devices and details of their fabrication will be discussed."
"If the capacitance-voltage relationship of a semiconductor junction is expressed by\\frac{d \\log C}{d \\log V} = nwhereCis the capacitance per unit area,Vis the sum of the applied reverse bias and the built-in reverse bias of the junction, and n is a number which in general is a function of V; then it is usually found that-1/2 \\leq n \\leq -1/3. The lower limit of -1/2 is obtained fer an abrupt junction and is approximated very well by many alloy diodes. The upper limit of -1/3 is obtained for a linearly graded junction and is approached by junctions made with deep diffusion. The \"hyper-abrupt\" structure, in which on one or both sides of the p-n junction the impurity density at the depletion layer edge decreases with increasing depletion layer width yields values ofn < -1/2. \"Hyper-abrupt\" structures with\\frac{d \\log C}{d \\log V} = -5have been obtained by diffusion techniques. An alloy-diffusion method has been reported to yield diodes withn = -3. This paper discusses \"hyper-abrupt'\" devices fabricated by an epitaxial technique. The main feature of the devices is an extremely narrow active region which yield a large-\\frac{d \\log C}{d \\log V}ratio in conjunction with cut-off frequencies greater than 300 KMC. The values for -n can be tailored to match circuit parameters. Variable capacitance diodes with -n greater than 12 have been fabricated. The very high cut-off frequency has been attained by a reduction of series resistance with the extremely narrow active region in the device. Thus very high frequency operation is obtained along with the extraordinary voltage-capacitance non-linearity of the \"hyper-abrupt\" junction."
"Diffused epitaxial gallium arsenide varactors have been fabricated with measured (6 Gc/sec, degenerate) noise temperatures of 42°K when operated at room temperature and 14°K operating at liquid nitrogen. The zero bias capacitance of such units ranges from 1.0 to 0.5 picofarad, corresponding to zero-bias cut-off frequencies of 120 to 230 Gc/sec. Calculations suggest that cut-off frequencies well in excess of 500 Gc/sec (with step junction capacitance variations) should be realizable in an epitaxial GaAs structure. The attainment of this performance depends primarily upon continued improvement in the quality of epitaxial films. Nonepitaxial, diffused, GaAs varactors have also been fabricated. In an ultrathin wafer design with graded junctions and zero-bias capacitances of 0.7 to 1.0 picofarad, these have exhibited cut-off frequencies over 200 Gc/sec. The lowest measured noise temperature for the nonepitaxial varactor operating at room temperature is 56° K. Observed cut-off frequencies approach theoretical expectations for this structure. DC reverse bias power tests on nonepitaxial diffused GaAs varactors indicate maximum tolerable power dissipations of over 1 watt per picofarad."
"Calculations are made of the nonlinearity coefficient, γ and the dynamic quality factor Q, of abrupt junctions, hyper-abrupt junctions, and varactors with a pagoda structure which is proposed in this report. The quantities γ and Q are defined by Kurokawa and Uenohara as\\gamma = |C_{1}|/C_{0}andQ = 1/\\omega R_{s},C{0}(2/\\gamma-\\gamma/2), respectively, where Rs, is the series resistance and C0and C1are the coefficients of the Fourier expansion of the time-dependent junction capacitanceC(t), i.e.,C(t) = C_{0} + C_{1} \\cos \\omega_{p}t +,...,.Compared with abrupt junctions having γ between 0.5 (for 8 volts breakdown) and 1.0 (for 150 volts breakdown) hyper-abrupt junctions improve γ by about 50%. With the pagoda structure, γ can be made around 1.8 with little dependence on breakdown voltage. The theoretical upper limit of γ is two. Improvement in γ is always accompanied by an increase in the productR_{s},C_{0}, also increased fabrication difficulties, and the net effect is usually a decrease in Q. Only when the negative gradient region of a hyper-abrupt junction is made very narrow, γ can be improved without sacrificing Q. Measurements on epitaxial hyper-abrupt junctions and pagoda varactors are discussed."
"A silicon intrinsic barrier (PIN) diode can give good protection against pulse burnout of microwave radar receivers. For best operation, external bias should be supplied to energize the diode (switch operation), rather than self-bias from the pulses (limiter operation). Since the device operates by charge-controlled conductivity modulation, comparatively small amounts (Milliamperes) of dc bias current can control large amounts (amperes) of microwave current. Protection levels of greater than 50 db are predicted from an analysis of silicon wafer performance. At present, protection actually obtained is limited by the inductance of the encapsulation to about 44 db. Power calculations indicate that a pair of diodes should be able to protect against pulse energies as high as 20 megawatt-microseconds without burnout."
"A low loss ferroelectric microwave switch has been developed recently for operation at L-band frequencies. The switch is constructed in strip transmission line using (Ba-Sr)TiO3as the active element. It is capable of switching in less than 0.1 usec and provides isolation in excess of 20 db with an insertion loss of less than 0.7 db over a band of 20 Mc. The active element is a ferroelectric variable capacitor, which is controlled by a bias voltage of 600-800 volts in its present form. In pulse switching applications, the switch incorporates a blocking oscillator to provide fast voltage pulses of proper duration. When used as a DPDT switch, the device is placed in one output arm of a circulator. The power handling capabilities of the switch have not been assessed; however the active element is polycrystalline ceramic and is therefore not susceptible to burnout."
"A pulsed L-band amplifier chain consisting of two crossed-field amplifiers operating in tandem will be described. The final tube of the chain gives an output of about\\frac{3}{4}megawatt peak with an input of 100 kw peak. The driver tube gives an output of over 100 kw peak with an input of about 1 kilowatt peak. The duty cycle is .002 and bandwidth is 10%. Both of these tubes are representatives of a new dass of crossed-field amplifier which utilize forward wave interaction and a re-entrant electron stream. A forward wave circuit is obtained by a novel means of alternate capacitive coupling of half-wave length bars. Coaxial input and output lines are used to couple to the first and last bars of the circuit."
"Development of a broadband, long pulse, high power klystron at X-band is discussed. The electrical design, performance, and the construction of the tube are presented. The tube has a peak power output of 1.25 MW and an average power output of 6 KW. Bandwidth of the tube is 4 percent with a maximum power variation of 1 db. A seven cavity stagger-tuned tube was developed in order to realize 47 db large signal gain and 4 percent bandwidth. The correlation between the expected performance and theactual performance will be noted. The mechanical design of the tube and the method of assembly will be discussed. A number of window designs and materials were investigated for handling the high r-f voltage gradients at the output."
"A three-cavity metal-ceramic klystron amplifier operating at S-band has been developed. The focusing of the electron beam is performed by a single electrostatic Einzel-lens located between the first and second cavity. The gaps of the cavities are ungridded allowing operation of the klystron at high average beam powers. The perveance of the electron gun is1 \\times 10^{-6}a/v3/2. Under pulsed conditions and with a beam voltage of 23 kv, a saturated rf output power of 16 kw was observed at 3125 Mc/s. Saturation gain is 24 db and with the cavities synchonously tuned, the small signal gain is 34 db. An improved version of the above klystron, presently under construction, is expected to result in higher efficiency, power output, and gain."
"This paper describes the extension of the cold circuit bandwidth to 60 per cent and the operating bandwidth for high power traveling-wave tubes to 45 per cent. A new liquid cooled coupled-cavity circuit fulfills the bandwidth requirements and has high average power capability. In the process of increasing the bandwidth, a number of new problems required solution. The major difficulties encountered in wide-band operation are the spurious interaction at higher order modes, band edge oscillations, interaction impedance variation across the pass band and general operational instability because of regeneration. All of the above mentioned problems are magnified at higher operation voltages because of the merging of the fundamental and a particular higher order mode."
"A periodically focused, metal-ceramic traveling-wave amplifier that produces 100 kw peak power at 1290 Mc is described. The unique features of this tube are a gridded, convergent flow solid-beam electron gun that can be operated at perveance5 \\times 10^{-6}and a structure design that allows the tube to be operated with the cathode, input and output coaxial lines, and body shell at ground potential and the collector at high voltage. The tube operates at about 23 kv de and 14 amperes peak beam current. The grounded cathode design greatly simplifies the grid modulator problem, particularly in complex phased-array applications."
"A Broadband, Crossed-Field Amplifier with 20 db gain and peak power output of several hundred kilowatts will be described. The amplifier uses a choke supported interdigital line for a slow wave circuit and a secondary emitting cold cathode with re-entrant electron stream. The use of programmed interaction space geometry has given results superior to those obtained with symmetrical structures. Programmed interaction space geometry is accomplished by changing the RF properties of the circuit and/or the dc electron optics along the active circuit length. Proper programming of the variation requires maintaining a constant optimum value for Feinstein's \"spoke stabilization factor.\" This factor is essentially the ratio of the RF electric field intensity at the hub surface to the incremental dc electric field intensity above the synchronous field. It attempts to correlate the facts that (1) the RF field intensity limits the amount of space charge that can be phase focussed to the anode in the presence of space charge debunching forces and (2) the dc electric field intensity above the synchronous value determines the amount of space charge entering the base of the electron spoke. Theoretical considerations influencing the proper programming of the interaction space geometry will be discussed and some of the methods which have been employed for realizing the desired variation will be described."
"A combination of multi-layer epitaxial growth and selective diffusion was successfully used to fabricate electrically isolated active devices on a single chip of silicon. Four, layer silicon epitaxial growth is used in our present devices. Electrical isolation of multi-layer structures can be obtained by making impurity depositions at the junctions, or within epitaxial layers. For example, two epitaxial layers can be isolated in the following way. A p-type deposition is placed on a p-type substrate. Two epitaxial layers are then grown first, n-type, and then p-type, after which, an n-type deposition is placed on the surface. This technique is, of course, not limited to isolating epitaxial layers. The ability to work within the solid offers new design freedom. For example, reverse impurity profiles can be readily obtained."
"This paper describes the primary properties and characteristics of silicon planar integrated devices as they are applied to hybrid integrated circuits. An integrated device is defined as an individual component formed by the same techniques as required for components in a single substrate. In the hybrid circuits, electrical isolation is obtained by physical separation of the integrated devices. A description is given of the planar integrated construction of resistors, both thin film and diffused types, capacitors, both junction and film types, inductors, diodes and transistors, along with illustrations of typical units. The electrical characteristics are discussed, both the maximum ratings and the range of values of the devices. To illustrate the parasitic effects due to the integrated type of construction, equivalent circuits are given for both the resistors and capacitors. The application of these integrated devices in a typical circuit is also illustrated."
"By the alternate application of epitaxial growth and selective diffusion, it is possible to construct integrated circuits layer by layer. In this manner, the electrical properties of internal regions can be modified and multiple epitaxial layers electrically isolated. The additional freedom resulting from the ability to work within the silicon block opens new modes of device design. This technique has been successfully used to construct both bipolar and unipolar field-effect transistors. Adjacent but electrically isolated active devices exhibit excellent and well matched characteristics. The characteristics of typical devices and their method of fabrication will be discussed. These active devices are taken from two integrated circuits--first, a differential amplifier stage containing two n-p-n bipolar transistors and five resistors, and second, a differential amplifier stage containing two p-channel, n-gate unipolar transistors and six resistors. Possible future applications of this technique will be presented. The advantages and disadvantages of the technique will be pointed out."
"Two basic techniques for the isolation of active elements within a monolithic silicon planar integrated circuit are described. The first method consists of placing back-biased silicon diodes between each active element. The high impedance of the silicon junction below breakdown voltage acts as the isolating element. This impedance is frequency dependent, since the junction has a parasitic capacitance associated with it. This parasitic capacitance limits circuit performance at very high frequencies. The second method of isolation involves forming the active elements within a high resistivity silicon substrate. The high sheet resistance of the substrate is used to form regions of high impedance between the active elements. This impedance is not frequency dependent and circuit performance at high frequencies is not limited by this isolation scheme."
"Circuit reliability and performance, particularly in microcircuits, are affected by temperature; therefore, a knowledge of the heat transfer paths and temperature gradients and hot spots are of prime importance to proper design specifications and to efficient performance of microcircuits. The method of thermal mapping described in this paper involves a direct and rapid infrared scanning technique. The \"heart\" of the system is a photo sensitive element of single crystal indium antimonide with a long wave length cut-off near six microns. The method has been found to be satisfactory in generating isothermal patterns in tantalum microcircuits from 50°C to >250°C. Hot spots 1.3 mil in diameter are readily detected."
"Present emphasis in device research is placed on higher speed and higher power output. This is partly a consequence of the fact that the majority of present information-handling schemes are based on serial processes, and data processing capacity is proportional to the speed of the individual devices. On the other hand there is a large area of present and potential problems where information would better be processed in parallel channels or in arbitrary combinations of parallel and serial paths. The latter approach to data handling calls for systems with a very large number of devices, most of them active or at least switchable. This number may be in the high millions. Under these circumstances power consumption and size become of greatest importance. This paper therefore investigates the question of the lower limit for the power consumption of active solid-state devices, or, in other words: Utilizing known physical principles, for how low a power consumption can one design and fabricate active devices? As an introduction the paper briefly describes the design, fabrication and performance of integrated amplifier and digital function blocks operating at supply power levels of 1 to 10 microwatts. Then the paper analyzes the problems encountered if the supply power is lowered into the range between 1 nanowatt and 1 microwatt. These are (a) basic physical limitations, (b) noise, (c) speed, and (d) technological limitations (pointing to potentially profitable areas of research). The results of experiments with some exploratory devices are described and the conclusion is drawn that the next few years will see the 1 to 1000 nanowatt supply power range opened up for practical device applications."
"A monolithic functional block containing both unipolar and bipolar transistors was described by K. K. Yu and L. Pollack at the 1961 PGED Meeting. Both unipolar and bipolar transistor structures were fabricated simultaneously by means of double diffusion, as for conventional planar transistors. However, the presence of the unipolar transistors imposes some additional requirements on the controlling parameters. This paper analyzes the problems involved and discusses the compromises and criteria in design. For the unipolar transistors the major considerations are the pinch-off voltage, pinch-off current, the transconductance and the breakdown voltage. For the bipolar transistors, on the other hand, the principal characteristics are the gain and breakdown voltage. In both cases the controlling parameters for these characteristics are the surface concentration, the shape of the impurity profiles, junction depth, etc. The paper analyzes the requirements of these two active devices in the terms of exponential, complementary error function and Gaussian distributions and points the way to an optimum design for both. The analytical results check well with experiments."
"The unijunction transistor (UJT) is being considered as the active element in an integrated harmonic oscillator realization. Necessary and sufficient conditions for oscillation in the harmonic mode have been determined. The dependence of the frequency constancy factor,\\frac{1 d\\omega_{o}}{\\omega_{o} dT}, on device temperature and bias-conditions is derived. These results depend on an a.c. perturbation analysis of the UJT. The analysis brings out in detail the known behavior of the UJT input port as a -R, L network at low frequcndcs. The input port is also shown to function as a +R, C network at high frequencies. A natural resonance in the diffusion process at medium frequencies is pointed out. An intrinsic UJT oscillator is proposed, based upon this resonance. Experimental work with commercially available UJT structures substantiates analytical results. Experimental studies of prototype oscillator circuits are used to design an integrated oscillator realization which is optimized with regard to temperature stability and waveform distortion."
"The interelectrode capacitance in film-type circuits becomes a critical design limitation as dimensions decrease and as substrates of high dielectric constants are developed. Design charts and engineering approximations are presented and illustrated by evaluating the effect of stray capacitance on a completed film-type IF amplifier circuit."
"The advantages of solar thermionic generators for use in space power systems are described. A cubical cavity generator consisting of five (5) planar diodes connected in series can meet the requirements of a space type generator. The design features that a thermionic diode must incorporate are discussed. A developed prototype is described as an example. This prototype was used to fabricate a cubical generator which was electrically tested. The generator design, the laboratory simulation of solar heating by electron bombardment techniques, and the results of the electrical tests are also discussed."
"A brief review is given of fuel cell principles and types. Performance of a molten-electrolyte fuel cell at 600° C on hydrocarbon-derived fuels is then discussed. Air is used at the other electrode. Propane reformate fuel produces about 80% of the power obtained with hydrogen. A one to one mole mixture of water and methyl alcohol is also a satisfactory cell fuel. Performance of fuel cell batteries is also discussed."
"The general characteristics of a solar cell are reviewed and the effect of these characteristics on solar panel design and the performance of the cell in the space environment are discussed. The design considerations for solar panel structures are presented along with the flight acceptance testing and type approval testing to which the panel is subjected. The relative effectiveness of solar panels on Earth orbiters, Lunar probes and interplanetary flights are shown. Specific design details of the Ranger (lunar) and Mariner (Venus and Mars) type solar cell power supplies are presented. Flight data on Ranger III is presented."
"The concept of a thermo-photo-voltaic (TPV) energy converter is introduced and the device compared with thermoelectric and thermionic converters. Features of the TPV converter are that the entire device is kept at room temperature, potential power densities on the order of 10 watts/cm3, and potential conversion efliciencies of 30 percent. Considerations for TPV converter design are presented and compared with solar cells. Use of geometry and thin-film optical filters to improve efficiency is discussed. For a germanium converter operating with a hot source in the neighborhood of 1600°C a p-i-n structure with the absorption taking place in the intrinsic base region is shown to give maximum efficiency. A measured efficiency of 4.23 percent on an experimental converter with 282 mw/cm2incident energy has been achieved."
"One of the problems in the application of semiconductors to thermoelectric generation of power is the determination of the optimum carrier concentration in order to achieve maximum efficiency. Up to the present time, this problem has been approached by determining the cartier concentration which maximizes the conventional figure of meritz = a^{2}/k\\rho; however, this approach is unsatisfactory. The criterion of using the conventional figure of merit as quantity to be maximized in order to achieve maximum efficiency is only valid for materials with temperature independent parameters. An analysis of the performance of thermoelectric generators has shown that a quantity similar in form to the conventional figure of merit but using temperature averaged parameters plays the role of figure of merit in the case of materials with temperature dependent parameters. This paper considers the problem of carrier concentration optimization giving attention to the temperature dependence of the material parameters. The equations to be satisfied by the optimum constant and optimum variable cartier concentrations, in order to obtain maximum \"average parameters\" figure of merit, are derived. The equations are solved for a non-degenerate extrinsic semiconductor. A comparison is made between the maximum \"average parameters figures of merit\" which can be obtained using optimum constant and optimum variable carrier concentrations; and the results interpreted in terms of available materials. A method is presented for the calculation of the optimum constant carrier concentration in a material when the thermoelectric parameters are known as functions of temperature."
"Formulas for efficiency and coefficient of performance are derived for devices based on the Nernst and Ettingshausen effects. The equations reduce to those of Harman and Honig in the limits of small figure of merit and refrigerator current, but they do not limit to the Carnot values. To obtain a better device theory, one must solve a two-dimensional partial differential equation in which the current density is allowed to vary with position. A maximization procedure for the figure of merit is shown for a one-band non-degenerate semiconductor. Experimental data indicates that HgxCd1-xTe alloys are perhaps the best materials for such devices at present."
"The advent of thermo-electric, thermionic, and fuel cell power converters has led to the need for means of power inversion capable of high efficiencies at low input voltages. The advantages of tunnel diodes as low voltage power inversion elements and considerations governing their design are discussed. Performance data and electrical characteristics of germanium tunnel diodes having peak currents of 1-50 amperes are presented and results of low temperature operation are described. Methods of measuring the electrical parameters of these diodes are given, including a low-cost adapter for extending the current range of any curve tracer. Circuits for power conversion using these tunnel diodes are described, with theoretical and experimental efficiencies compared, construction problems outlined, and low temperature circuit operation discussed."
"Optimization equations for free convection heat transfer thermoelectric refrigerators have been derived and used to design several units. These devices successfully eliminate the blowers usually required for substantial performance in thermoelectric refrigerators. This results in totally silent operation and an indefinite operating life. The over-all power requirement is also reduced. A characteristic of these refrigerators is that substantial heat must be transferred across very low metal-to-air temperature differentials. This is required to minimize power and material requirements. Equations for multi-fin heat exchangers for these conditions were developed and experimentally checked. Average air-to-metal temperature differentials as low as 3° F were measured under practical operating conditions."
"In a double-diffused germanium NPN mesa transistor, the ratio of BVCBOto BVCEOis more favorable than in a PNP epitaxial unit, but when a collector-bulk resistivity (namely 1 Ω-cm) is used that will produce the desired BVCEO, the resulting VCEis intolerable. Since, because of the gross difference between the diffusion rates of n-type and p-type impurities in germanium, epitaxial material cannot be used in the conventional manner to fabricate a germanium NPN transistor, some other way had to be found to easily and effectively reduce the resistivity of the extrinsic collector region in order to overcome the VCE, problem. This paper describes a new and novel technique that accomplishes this necessary reduction in resistivity."
"Some theoretical characteristics of the \"Insulated-Gate Field-Effect Transistor\" are discussed and the results compared with experimental units that have recently been fabricated. These units consist of a control electrode insulated from a thin conducting channel in the surface of a silicon substrate by an oxide film, as compared to the conventional reverse biased p-n junction unipolar transistor gate. The use of an insulated type gate yields several important advantages, viz: 1. Transistors may be fabricated in which the mechanism of control is either depletion of channel charge, enhancement of channel charge, or a combination of both, providing freedom in circuit design. 2. The continuous transfer characteristic from the negative gate-bias region to the positive bias region allows operation at zero bias. 3. The oxide thickness provides a new design parameter; the thicker oxide units operate at higher speed and power level. 4. Gate leakage current is extremely low; time constant measurements yield an input resistance of 10+13- 10+16ohms. Units fabricated to date have the following typical characteristics: Input Impedance: 7µµf, 10+15ohms Transconductance: 2800 µohms Cut-off bias: -8 volts (depletion unit) Rise Time: 10 nanoseconds (10% - 90 %) The planar construction of these zero junction devices coupled with their highly uniform characteristics have yielded great promise for integrated circuit applications. Progress made toward integrating these elements into large scale logic arrays on a single crystal semiconductor substrate is discussed."
"Several unique characteristics of a three terminal PNPN device are explained using experimental and mathematical means. When operated as a grounded base transistor, the small signal low frequency current gain (emitter to collector small signal current ratio for constant collector voltage) of this device increases with increasing d. c. emitter bias current. This current gain is unique in that there is no upper bound on its magnitude. Since the d.c. collector voltage is well below the avalanche multiplication level, multiplication is not important for this phenomenon. The responsible mechanism is determined to be the interaction between electron and hole collection resulting from the base resistance of the device. Experimental evidence is given in support of this explanation. Another characteristic of the device caused by electron-hole collection interaction is a negative slope in the collector to base terminal characteristics. This permits the device to operate as a switch under complete control of the emitter current. The switch is always returned to the off-state by removing emitter control current. Unfortunately, load current in the on-state must be limited below a definite value for complete saturation of the collector junction."
"Active solid state triode structures have been made which oscillate up to 42 mcs. Power gain is achieved by means of a form of controlled internal field emission. The structure consists of two metallic stripes in contact with a single crystal of n-type Ge and separated from each other by a thin insulating layer of Al2O3. Under proper biases either metal electrode may be used to control injection of electrons into the space charge region existing in the Ge (which serves as a collector). A brief discussion of the theory of the device and the anticipated small signal equivalent circuit will be given. This will be compared with detailed measurements of the small signal four terminal a.c. parameters taken as functions of frequency and bias levels. Static characteristics will also be presented as a function of temperature, from which the temperature dependence of the input I-V characteristics and current transfer ratio will be determined. Preliminary measurements of power gain vs. frequency, which have shown gain of 10 db at 10 Mc, will also be presented."
"Although extensive theoretical and experimental work of many laboratories has been done on the so-called tunnel cathode, it does not yet appear to have produced a useful device. If, however, the thickness of the insulating layer in a sandwich type cathode is increased to several times the mean free path of the hot carriers, appreciable current can be drawn for extended periods. The most highly developed cathode of this type is found in the MgO cold cathode tube. In this tube the sandwich is composed of the nickel cathode sleeve, a layer of NiO, and a layer of porous MgO. The slow starting and extreme spread in velocity of emitted electrons of the MgO tube has initiated development of an analog which has the metal-oxide-metal structure of the proposed \"tunnel\" cathodes, but has proven capable of D.C. emission of microamperes for periods of several hours."
"Low temperature oxidation of silicon mesa transistors and alloy diodes is being undertaken by us for improving and stabilizing the characteristics. Oxidation at low temperature is more favorable to increase the freedom of design of silicon devices than at high temperature. For low temperature oxidation it seems necessary to make oxygen be chemically active to combine with silicon by some method, such as making it a dissociated state or ozone. Therefore, the devices are held in wet oxygen atmosphere between glass-covered electrodes which are connected to a source of high-voltage AC (saturable transformer). Following several hours oxidation in a quartz tube at atmospheric pressure and 300° C, results indicate that this method is most effective to increase the low current alpha of silicon mesa transistors up to that of silicon planar transistors and to decrease the saturation current of silicon p-n junctions."
"A number of computer studies of the bunching process in electron beams have become known during recent years. It was the purpose of the work described by this paper to investigate experimentally saturated RF-currents for various bunching conditions in a 40 KV hollow beam of perveance10 \\times 10^{-6}and to compare the results with published computed data. The test tube, a six cavity L-band klystron, offered the advantage of a number of cavities tunable over a wide band and separated by drift regions of different length. The perveance could be adjusted by modulating the anode of a magnetron injection gun. RF-beam currents for a variety of bunching conditions were calculated from induced voltages across low impedance gaps. Despite of the high perveance range of these experiments saturated RF-beam currents in strong magnetic focusing fields were in fair agreement with published computed data. At reduced magnetic field levels a deterioration of saturated currents was observed. It is assumed that this effect is related to transverse beam instabilities. For multi-cavity operation RF-voltages at the penultimate cavity were generally higher than predicted by Webber's narrow gap calculations. This reflects the effect of enhanced space charge forces in finite bunching gaps."
"A new nickel matrix cathode with rather unusual electrical, mechanical and chemical behavior has been developed. It is capable of delivering DC emission for extended periods in the high current density range. For example, it has yielded 10 amps/cm2space charge limited current at 1050° B for test periods of up to several hours and 4 amps/cm2at 950° B for test periods of up to 400 hours. It will also deliver 1 amp/cm2at roughly 100° C lower temperature than the barium aluminate impregnated tungsten matrix cathode and has done so for periods currently up to 6000 hours. In contrast to other matrix cathodes, this will also yield current densities at low temperatures that are comparable to oxide coated cathodes, e.g., 200-300 ma/cm2at 750° B. Evidence of more uniform emission than has been possible with a previous design nickel matrix cathode will be shown by Child's law plots."
"This experimental study aimed at observing and whenever possible verifying the sources of noise near the carrier in microwave oscillators. The noise was detected as equivalent amplitude and frequency modulations; these and other signals of interest were analyzed by a spectrum analyzer resolving 25 bands of about\\frac{1}{2}octave each, covering 14 cps to 34 Kc. The frequency domain across spectra (correlations) were also measured. The correlation measurements greatly facilitated the control of power supplies and environment. The tubes tested were two reflex klystrons and 3 B.W.O.'s, all operated cw at 9 Gc. It was found in all cases that the amplitude noise was negligible, being orders of magnitude lower in sideband energy than the frequency noise. The correlation between beam current and frequency was so small that it could be safely concluded that internally generated beam current fluctuations were a negligible source of frequency noise in the tubes tested. From the shape of the frequency noise spectra, it appeared that a major source of frequency noise was the perturbation of the beam in the interaction region by ions. It is hoped to directly verify this by controlled experiments."
"An energy-diverter device (crowbar) has been developed that is capable of effectively providing protection in the event of a fault or arc occurring in a high-power microwave tube or system. This protection is accomplished by diverting the energy or \"crowbarring\" through an alternate path capable of dissipating the stored energy in the capacitor bank and the short-circuit energy delivered by the power supply. The device is a fixed multiple-gap system that is sequentially fired by a signal applied at approximately the mid-point of the gap system. It has an infinite range; that is, it will operate from zero voltage to the maximum required voltage. It requires lower trigger energy (in the order of one joule); is capable of fast firing (in the order of 0.5 microsecond including delays in firing circuit); and can be repetitively fired. Other features incorporated into the device are 100% overvoltage setting of the gaps; self-triggering if a fault occurs at high operating voltages; and a low inductance configuration. The device is also sufficiently flexible in design to be adapted to any application. The design features, operating characteristics of the device, and results obtained in actual use will be presented."
"This paper describes the development of a backward wave converter which is a hybrid device that combines the essential elements of an electronically swept receiver in a single vacuum envelope. Early work at ITTL was undertaken on the development of an electronically swept receiver which used a backward wave amplifier, a backward wave oscillator and a crystal mixer. Near the end of this development, work was reported by Gray of the University of California on the possibility of combining these three functions in a single vacuum envelope. Encouraged by the success in tracking the two backward wave tubes to provide a constant I-F in the receiver development, we undertook the development of a backward wave converter, as the device was called, for the frequency range of 500 to 1000 Mc. This device provides a number of advantages when compared to the conventional crystal mixer, such as, (1.) Elimination of crystal burnout, (2.) Isolation of L. O. power from the antenna, (3.) Preselection, (4.) Voltage tunability at high rates over a large frequency range. These early backward wave converters, which could be swept at rates up to 1 kc over an octave band, had a preselection bandwith of 10 mc, a dynamic range of greater than 70 db and an I-F output at 60 inc. Noise figures, when the tube was adjusted for octave tuning operation, ranged between 13 and 19 db. Much better noise figures than this (6-8 db) could be obtained at spot frequencies by optimizing the voltage profile between cathode and helix. Limitations of length required the use of higher beam current (6-10 mA) than is desirable for good low noise performance. Thus if these limitations are removed a considerable improvement can be expected. A range of converters are now being developed extending to the 12 Gc region. Results on these later tubes will be given. Possibilities and expectations of extending this technique to the mm wave region will also be reviewed."
"Departing from the usual technique of focusing large high power klystron beams by means of electromagnets, 24 megawatt, five-cavity klystrons for the Stanford two-mile linear accelerator were successfully built and tested using permanent magnet focusing at the Sperry Gyroscope Company. This paper briefly describes the 24 megawatt tube based upon a Stanford University design and covers in detail the development of the permanent magnet and stray field shielding. Performance data are presented showing nearly identical tube operating characteristics using either electromagnetic or permanent magnet beam focusing."
"The controlled rectifier, while it has come into use only recently, has properties which make its use in a nuclear environment probable. Because of this, an investigation was conducted to determine the effects of fast neutrons on silicon controlled rectifiers. Ten General Electric 4JC35 silicon controlled rectifiers were subjected to a maximum integrated fast neutron flux of4 \\times 10^{13}nvt/cm2in the M. I. T. Nuclear Reactor. An increase in the emitter current required to obtain a given value of alpha was observed after irradiation. This increase is attributed to an increase in the bulk recombination in the base region. The variation of alpha with emitter current in the controlled rectifier is attributed to recombination in the space charge layer."
"It has been observed that the forward voltage drop, at constant forward current, of a GaAs diffused p-n junction varies almost linearly with temperature from 2.0° K to above 300° K. Since carrier \"freeze out\", at low temperatures is not observed, these junctions make excellent cryogenic thermometers. In addition these diodes exhibit good repeatability on temperature cycling and an insensitivity to magnetic fields. The sensitivity of the devices measured near room temperature is Δ/VΔT∼ -3.5 mv/°C; If= 0.1 µA Δ/VΔT = - 2.0 mv/°C; If= 1.0 µA The sensitivity decreases slowly toward lower temperatures and at liquid Helium is: ΔVΔT∼ - 1.5 mv/°C and is essentially independent of current. This high sensitivity over such a wide temperature range is unique among cryogenic temperature indicators."
"The Ge-GaAs n-n heterojunction has interesting rectifying properties due to the interface barrier between the two materials. The conduction mechanism of the junction will be described. The fact that the current is carried mainly by the majority carrier allows the diode to switch at high speed without suffering from carrier storage. The transient behavior of the n-n heterojunction shows a switching time less than 10-9second and no storage time is observed. The switching time is believed to be limited by the circuit impedance involved. The capacitances of these diodes have excellent(V_{D}-V)^{\\frac-{1}{2}}dependence indicating the abrupt nature of the junctions. No frequency dependence of the capacitance was found from 50 Kc to 10 Mc. In the forward bias region, no diffusion capacitance was observed. The barrier height was found to be dependent on the orientation of the GaAs surface upon which the Ge was grown. Determination of the barrier height, by current-voltage characteristics, temperature dependence of the reverse current as well as the capacitance all show that the VD's in [111] Ga, [111] As and [110] surfaces decrease in this order which cannot be explained by simple surface dipole moments due to GaAs ionic bond. Measurements on n-p Ge-GaAs heterojunction give apparent barrier heights VD[111]Ga < V_{D}[111]As < V_{D}[110]. Measurements in both n-n and n-p heterojunctions suggest consistently that the Ge-GaAs conduction band discontinuity\\Delta E_{c}for the orientations [111] Ga, [111] As and [110] decreases in this order."
"Surface breakdown or degradation resulting from the migration of surface ions are highly dependent on electric fields. As a consequence, it is very desirable to design high voltage pn junction devices so that the electric field at the surface is significantly lower than that within the body of the device. The shape, surface doping and dielectric constant at the junction-surface interface have an appreciable influence on the electric field in the space charge layer adjoining the surface of the device. Iterative solutions of Poissons equation in two dimensions have been developed which permit predictions of the surface field as a function of surface geometry and dielectric coating. Measurement of surface fields by probing the junctions are in good agreement with the calculated values."
"Previous work in this laboratory showed reverse characteristics of alloyed diodes prepared from a III-V compound can be profoundly dependent upon the polarity of the"
"Two applications of the coupled cavity slow wave circuit at the 5-6 millimeter wavelengths are the subject of this paper. When considering the design of cw high-power amplifiers and oscillators for millimeter wavelengths the characteristics of the coupled cavity structure present several distinct advantages. The heat capacity of the circuit is very good and the tubes can be designed for low voltage operation. A high-power amplifier with cw output power of 150 watts and efficiency of 30 percent has been developed. Initial tubes have been operated as single stage low gain amplifiers, 14 db, with an approximate bandwidth of 8 percent. A severed amplifier with two amplifying sections producing higher saturation gain will be described. A millimeter-wave backward-wave oscillator using the coupled cavity circuit has also been developed. The general properties of this tube are 18 percent tuning bandwidth, output power in excess of 1 watt and depressed collector operation. The techniques that were evolved for the development of these tubes and their electrical performance will be described."
"This paper describes an ultra low-noise traveling-wave tube using permanent-magnet focusing and which operates over the full octave from 2 to 4 Gc. Terminal noise figure is less than 5.5 db over the band, with all voltages fixed. Developmental models have yielded spot noise figures as low as 3.5 db, and less than 4.5 db across the octave. Gain across the octave is 20 db or greater, the nominal value being 25 db. The tube has been built to withstand a vibration level of 12 g's and the package can be operated in any orientation. Low noise amplification is achieved through the use of a conventional multi-anode low-noise gun. The value of the magnetic field at the cathode is increased by flux concentrating rings. A wound-wire \"field straightener\" serves to short out transverse field components of the Alnico 5 permanent magnet."
"A power backward-wave oscillator for a minimum power output of one watt c.w. over the 50-75 Gc band has been designed and tested. Maximum powers of 2.5 watts c. w. and approximately 20 watts peak have been measured with this tube operating in a permanent magnet. This tube uses an electron gun having an area convergence of 100:1 and a coupled-cavity circuit with a cold bandwidth of 385%. Very low circuit losses, of the order of 0.2 db per wavelength at 70 Gc have been achieved in this circuit, as well as Pierce impedances approaching 10 ohms. Some detailed measurements of the characteristics of this tube and its circuit are presented, such as start-oscillation current, power output, tuning characteristics and circuit losses. Some predictions based on this data are made regarding power output and frequency coverage which can be obtained using other versions of the beam and circuit combination described in this paper. Also presented will be measured data of the attenuation vs frequency of some commercially available microwave components, as measured by this tube in the 50-75 Gc range."
"The CW traveling-wave amplifiers recently developed for the power stage of the communications transmitters in the space vehicles of project SYNCOM (synchronous communications satellite) and project SURVEYOR (soft-landing lunar vehicle) are described. These tubes provide 2 watts to 20 watts of CW power in the 2.0 to 2.4 Gc telemetry band at a d-c to r-f conversion efficiency of 30% and a gain of 30 db. The tubes were especially designed from the outset for the space application; as such, high efficiency, minimum weight, and high reliability were optimized in the design. Metal-ceramic construction and periodic permanent magnet focusing are used for reliability and reduced weight. The basic tube plus magnets weighs 9 ounces. Overall weight of the tube and space package is less than 14 ounces, which is believed to be the lowest value so far achieved in a TWT at this frequency and power level."
"The requirements for space-borne telemetry transmitters place a premium on high efficiency, small size and low weight. The CW Amplitron, a continuous-cathode, crossed-field, backward-wave amplifier, has many characteristics in addition to high efficiency that suggest its use in space telemetry. The paper describes these characteristics with respect to the intended application. Design considerations of the QKS997 Amplitron, a 25-watt CW S-band amplifier with 20 db gain and greater than 50% efficiency are presented and performance data of tubes built to date are reviewed. A unique rf circuit design is employed which permits near minimum magnet weight and convenient conduction cooling. Low residual phase modulation, insensitivity to environmental conditions, low transmission loss in the off condition, weight close to 1 pound, and cathode loading compatible with long life are other features of the design. Preliminary designs of Amplitrons for other telemetry bands from S- to V-band are also discussed with respect to power level and systems needs at these frequencies."
"The extension of crossed-field, or M-type, backward-wave oscillators into frequency ranges above X-band is described. Two tube types cover ranges of 10.8 to 15 Gc and 14.9 to 18.1 Gc, respectively, with minimum power outputs of 120 and 80 watts being achieved across these respective bands. Design criteria usually applied to such tubes were not practical in a number of important respects. For example, operation at 18.1 Gc takes place with a magnetic field substantially less than critical value. Basic dimensions of a representative X-band device in terms of wavelengths are compared with these two higher frequency models. New approaches to optics, output, and gun mount designs are described which are also applicable to lower frequency tubes. For example, the interdigital delay line structure converts to a single ridge waveguide output instead of the coax used in the aforementioned X-band device."
"A practical design of microwave quadrupole amplifier has been achieved and has given a noise temperature (double channel) of 70°K at a frequency of 2600 Mc, (as measured at the input terminal of the tube). A bandwidth of 30 Mc to a temperature of 100°K has been measured. No liquid gases are required to obtain these results. The tube has been operated on a 12 foot dish antenna in a moon echo experiment, giving an overall system temperature of 130° K. A description will be given of the construction, measurement and use of the tube."
"The unidirectional and low-noise properties of the Cuccia coupler have been combined with the high-power capabilities of all-copper cavities to yield a new stable protective device for a solid-state amplifier for a superpower radar. A prototype LINEATOR has been constructed and tested at 1,295 Mc, with the capability of withstanding at least 50 kw of peak incident power, providing greater than 100 db of isolation to the solid-state amplifier during the pulse. Recovery is automatic and essentially instantaneous, such that during the receiving period, the terminal insertion loss is approximately 0.3 db, with a total effective input noise temperature less than 35° K. The LINEATOR is a passive nonreciprocal electron-beam-type device, similar to a circulator, except with a linear, rather than a circular, configuration. The prototype model was constructed with four ports, three of which are for signal-handling purposes, and one is for initial beam noise removal."
"A new phase shifter is described which provides wide-angle phase modulation at UHF and microwave frequencies. Suitable for modulation rates from DC to VHF, it achieves phase excursions up to several cycles with excellent linearity. The device is a simple electron beam tube. Fast cyclotron waves are impressed upon a beam by an input coupler and extracted by an output coupler. Between these two elements the beam passes through a tiny solenoid mounted inside the envelope. Control current in this solenoid generates a local magnetic field which adds algebraically to a uniform magnetic field applied externally. Output phase varies linearly with control current."
"Realization of the full communications potential of optical masers (lasers) requires the development of extremely broadband modulators and demodulators. Since general considerations for broadband light demodulators have been discussed previously, this paper presents specific design criteria and performance characteristics for traveling-wave microwave phototubes. Such a tube consists of a photoelectric cathode and a helical slow-wave circuit. Microwave-modulated light produces a current-modulated electron beam, which passes through the gun region and interacts with the helix. Hence, the tube acts like a traveling-wave tube amplifier in which the cathode is also the r-f input coupler. However, there are important differences between microwave phototubes and conventional TWT amplifiers. In particular, strong interaction can take place even at very low current levels since the beam can be almost purely current-modulated at the entrance to the helix. In addition, the output signal-to-noise ratio can be no better than its value at the cathode; hence, low-noise gun techniques cannot be used to suppress noise. The existence of several c-w lasers near one micron wavelength has stimulated the development of sensitive microwave phototubes for that spectral range. Particular processing techniques have been used to shift the spectral response of Ag-O-Cs photosurfaces toward longer wavelengths. Finally, performance data will be presented and compared with theoretical predictions."
"The Omegatron Mass Spectrometer is uniquely suited for use as a residual gas analyzer for electronic vacuum devices. This has been evidenced by its increased usage as an attached appendage for measuring the gas ambients in traveling wave tubes, cathode ray tubes and receiving tubes. In essence, the Omegatron is a vacuum tube which operates on the same principle as the cyclotron. Gas molecules ionized by electron bombardment are accelerated in a cycloidal path under the influence of magnetic and RF fields. Under conditions of resonance, ions with a certain mass-to-charge ratio are collected and the resultant output recorded as one peak of a gas spectrum."
"Recent advances in active network theory and in the theory of voltage variable systems, have been based on and have resulted in several new concepts of \"ideal\" circuit elements. These concepts and the revolutionary circuit behavior for processing and generating signals, that they make possible are reviewed. A critical examination of the essential element-properties required for the realization of active filters and voltage variable transfer functions suggests two new classes of devices. The requirements are entirely different from those involved for amplification, oscillation and detection. The development of non-conventional space-charge control tube structures to meet these requirements is then discussed."
"Certain zinc diffused diodes when biased in the forward direction emit intense line radiation just below the band gap energy. The spectral distribution, efficiency of radiative recombination, and current-voltage characteristics have been measured at 300° K, 77° K, and 4.2° K. The emission intensity of the various spectral lines has been determined as a function of diode current. The ease of modulation, applications and the mechanism responsible for the injection luminescence will be discussed."
"A diffused junction GaAs diode has been developed for use as a fast, high-efficiency, infrared source. The diode is forward biased with the light being generated by the recombination of minority carriers in the semiconductor bulk. The device is a P+-N structure with a spaced contact covering a minor portion of the N-type face of the wafer through which the radiation is emitted. The infrared radiation is characterized by a sharply defined peak at slightly less than band gap (E gap=1.43ev at 300° K) and a broad peak at about 1.0 ev. The measured radiation pattern closely follows that expected of a flat plate, i.e., the intensity decreases as the cosine of the angle from the normal. The diode V-I curve is characterized by exp (qV/2kT) at low current (up to 1 ma), exp (qV/kT) at moderate current (5-50 ma) and series IR drop at high current (above 200 ma)."
"A brief review of the electro-optic effect in crystals as applied to light modulation will be given, then followed by a description of the technique developed at our laboratories for single-sideband modulation of light by this effect. Aside from applications to superheterodyne optical communications, this technique can be used to shift, by a specified amount, the inherently fixed frequency of a laser beam without introducing additional frequency components. One method uses two electro-optic crystals in a tandem arrangement and is capable of shifting about 45% of the input light energy onto a sideband when a sinusoidal voltage is applied. The remaining energy is absorbed in the device. Principles of operation will be analyzed and the evolution of a simpler embodiment, which uses only one crystal, will be discussed. This latter device can completely convert an incident beam to a sideband and is easily adaptable to broadband operation far into the microwave region. These modulators were demonstrated with coherent light obtained from a helium-neon gas laser using audio-frequency modulating signals. Two tone tests showing the expected intensity envelopes and confirming single-sideband suppressed-carrier modulation will be described."
"A superconducting magnet has been developed to supply the magnetic field necessary to operate a 4 Gc traveling wave ruby maser. The field required by the maser is about 3000 oersteds uniform throughout the volume of the ruby to one part in a thousand. The field is directed across a gap of about 0.8 inches whose cross section is 5 inches by 0.5 inches. A close approach to the ideal magnetic circuit has been achieved by placing superconducting shields adjacent to the pole pieces. Circulating currents are set up in the shields which prevent the existence of leakage and fringing flux. Since there is no loss mechanism in the shields, the currents persist and the air-gap field remains everywhere uniform. With the absence of leakage and fringing flux, the size and weight of the magnetic circuit is considerably reduced. Superconducting coils allow the use of a persistent current to generate the field. A heater element encased in a glass sleeve is used to initiate the persistent current. The switching procedure is simple and involves no moving parts in the cryostat."
"When silicon diffused transistors are stressed by applying localized pressure to the emitter surface, increases in base and collector current are observed. From the relationship between these currents and the emitter junction voltage, the changes are identified as increases in minority carrier currents. The results can be explained mainly by the decrease in energy gap in strained silicon. Detailed data on stressed diodes and transistors will be shown in support of this hypothesis. This phenomenon can be used to advantage in many kinds of pressure transducers. Microphones have been constructed in which acoustic power is transmitted to a transistor emitter region by means of a diaphragm and point assembly. Typical values obtained are: a sensitivity of 1 db above 1 volt for a pressure of 1 dyne/cm2(versus -34 db for a carbon microphone); a gain of 26 db (versus 14 db); a ratio of a.c. power out to d.c. bias power of 11% (versus .02%); signal to noise ratio of 55 db; the frequency response was limited by the diaphragm. Other devices such as hydrophones, phonograph pickups, and microminiature microphones also suggest themselves."
"Recent investigations have shown that stress suitably applied over small areas of p-n junctions causes very large and reversible changes in junction resistance. The active semiconductor volume involved is of the order of a few cubic microns. The stress sensitivity cannot be expressed in conventional terms since the resistance change is a function of both mechanical and electrical bias and also because anisotropic stress is used. Under reverse bias resistance, ratios of 103- 104have been obtained reproducibly under forces of a few thousand dynes. Stress signals have also been applied to junctions in transistor structures where the stress sensitivity of the transfer characteristics causes a conversion of mechanical to electrical signals. For example, with forces of a few thousand dynes acting on the emitter junction, hfehas been changed by factors of 10- 100. Experimental two- and three-terminal devices which incorporate stressed junctions will be described. These include microphones, hydrophones and phonograph pick-ups. Other device possibilities on the same principles will be discussed."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Properties of the hydrogen maser and details of the apparatus will be discussed. 1beoretical expressions for noise and for the effects of various relaxation phenomena will be given, as well as expressions for effects, such as cavity pulling, which lead to frequency shifts in the maser. Experimental results on the comparison of two hydrogen masers will be presented and analyzed."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Listings are by month and page, and include authors of papers, authors of correspondence items (C), and reviewers of books (B)."
"Listings are by month and page. Authors and paper titles may be determ-iiined fromn the tables of contents in the front part of this index."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"LOFTI I is the first of a series of Navy satellite experiments designed for determination of the degree and extent of very-low-frequency (VLF) radio wave penetration of the ionosphere. This investigation has provided unique data on intensity, time delay, echoes, and other characteristics of VLF signals received in the ionosphere from transmitters on the Earth's surface. Theoretical studies carried on concurrently with planning and implementation of the experiment have indicated that VLF radio energy from transmitters operating below the lower atmosphere-ionosphere interface should appear in the ionosphere in useful amount. The LOFTI I telemetry records show relatively strong signals in the ionosphere from 18-kc transmitters on the terrestrial surface. The signals were attenuated less at night and appeared as far away as Australia, 10,000 miles from the transmitter. Statistical treatment of the data so far reduced shows that the attenuation of magnetic field intensity of the 18-kc time pulses from Naval Radio Station NBA, as measured near extreme line of sight distances to the north of the station, was less than 13 db 50 per cent of the time at night and less than 38 db 50 per cent of the time during the daylight hours. The data studied so far shows very little effect of altitude on signal intensity, an observation which agrees with the theoretical treatment based on a model ionosphere."
"The \"frequency feedback demodulator\" or \"frequency compression demodulator\" can be used to extend the threshold of signal-to-noise improvement in large index frequency-modulation systems. Previous papers have advanced the argument that the threshold occurs in the usual manner when noise peaks exceed the carrier envelope at the input to the frequency detector of a feedback demodulator. However, correlation between calculated values and carefully measured experimental values has been poor. The calculated values have been incorrect by orders of magnitude in many typical cases. In this paper it is shown that the threshold can also occur because of the feedback action of the demodulator. When this is taken into account, the threshold can be calculated accurately. It is shown that the threshold cannot be improved by the often suggested scheme of inserting a carrier of the proper phase at the input to the frequency detector. The phase-locked loop, a related device, is shown to have a threshold which is equal to or poorer than the threshold of the feedback demodulator for large modulation indices. It is shown that the stability of the feedback loop (and consequently the threshold) of the feedback demodulator is a function of modulation, but that by following the procedure given, the effect can be almost entirely eliminated. The results of this paper allow one to design feedback demodulators for the first time which will extend the threshold in a predictable manner."
"This paper treats the parametric converter from the circuit theory point of view. A linear time-varying capacitance is imbedded in an arbitrary linear passive and time-invariant network. First, we review the steady-state analysis of such a circuit. The formula for transducer power gain is next derived. Based on this formula, the maximum gain-bandwidth product is studied using Bode's relationship. We prove that for the noninverting type parametric converters, the optimum transducer power gain is that of Manley and Rowe, i.e., ω'/ω. The maximum fractional bandwidth is given by C1/C0(ω0'/ω0)½. Simple coupling circuits which approach the optimum situations are presented along with typical design examples."
"A low-level RF bridge has been developed for the purpose of calibrating directly the outputs of signal generators over a wide frequency band. Using standard commercial bolometers giving an input resistance of 50 ohms and an error detection scheme based on raidometer techniques, the bridge has a measured sensitivity (S/N=1) of 3.0×10-10 w. The basic bridge design is described in this paper and various applications are discussed. Although designed primarily for RF measurement, the bridge can be applied to the detection of any kind of electromagnetic radiation provided suitable bolometer elements and modulating means can be arranged."
"The design theory for a new range of p-n junction applications is presented. The applications include pulse generation, wave shaping, and harmonic generation. The diodes are characterized by a very abrupt interruption of reverse current in the turn-off transient and are approximately ideal nonlinear capacitors. The abrupt interruption of current in the reverse transient is related to the impurity profile in the junction. An estimate is given of the duration of the abrupt phase. In addition, the role of parasitic elements such as inductance, capacitance, and series resistance is discussed in relation to a particular representative circuit. In typical cases, the abrupt turn-off phase lasts for a time of the order of 10-9 sec. Transitions in excess of 100 v or an ampere are readily obtained."
"A simplified discussion of propagation in the earthionosphere waveguide is given. It is shown that, if the square of field amplitude is averaged over the width of the waveguide, a very simple formula for the averaged intensity is obtained. This result is used to describe some of the broad features of VLF propagation in a relatively concise fashion."
"Although the Manley and Rowe relations indicate that complete conversion of fundamental power to any specific harmonic with a nonlinear-reactance element is not impossible theoretically, many factors contribute to lowering the efficiency of real multipliers. Analysis, based on a Taylor series expansion of the nonlinear-reactance characteristic and Fourier expansion of the voltage and charge, with the introduction of suitable parameters and quiescent conditions, permits the exact determination of the various effects. Given the characteristics of a nonlinear element and the inevitable circuit losses, maximum obtainable efficiency can be predicted from the analysis. Significant increases in efficiency are obtained in various circuit configurations where selected intermediate harmonic currents are permitted to flow and where harmonics which cannot contribute to useful output at the desired harmonic frequency are suppressed. The characteristic of nonlinear reactance is shown to have a calculable effect on the multiplier efficiency, so that the most desirable characteristic can be specified. Experimental nonlinear capacitance multipliers designed according to the developed theory have provided an efficiency of 50 per cent for a quintupler and 70 per cent for a tripler, very close to the predicted values."
"An analog has been designed and constructed in which the base-emitter junction of a transistor is represented by a transmission line lumped into several elements representing distributed base resistance and base-emitter capacitance. The base-emitter capacitance varies with current and therefore each element of the junction is represented by a special circuit which presents the required impedance at any current. The distributed voltage-dependent collector-base capacitance and the resistance of the collector body are also represented. The analog is used to indicate the magnitude of several effects that arise at large signal levels and high frequencies. The results are generalized to obtain expressions for the variation of base resistance and collector series resistance with transistor parameters and operating conditions."
"The Manley-Rowe equations for a lossless varactor network yield little information for the two-frequency case. With the assumption of a linear signal termination, it is shown that the ratio of signal and pump frequencies must be M/2, where M is an integer. For M odd, a regenerative network is possible at the signal frequency. For M even, the network is possibly regenerative or nonregenerative. Other frequency ratios are not possible; frequency division is not possible except for regenerative division by 2. The effects of strong pumping are predictable if the varactor characteristic is given."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Popov's rôle in the development of radiotelegraphy is evaluated in relation to the contributions of other pioneers, notably Lodge and Marconi. The official Soviet position on the matter is critically reviewed."
"Certain basic problems in integration and extreme miniaturization of electronic systems may require new forms of device structure. A device structure that shows promise is hypothesized in this paper. The device is not discrete; it is rather a distributed \"line,\" with active and passive processes so distributed that a signal propagates along the line without attenuation, much as a burning zone moves along a fuse or an ionic discharge along a nerve axon. It is shown that lines of this type can be interconnected in certain direct ways so that complete logic capability can be achieved with networks of such lines alone. Techniques of logical synthesis of these networks are introduced. Certain special properties of systems built in this fashion are delineated, especially properties that appear to be significant for the synthesis of highly-miniaturized systems. There is some discussion of physical realizability of distributed electronic structures."
"To electronically simulate an animal nerve axon, the authors made an active pulse transmission line using tunnel diodes. The equation of propagation for this line is the same as that for a simplified model of nerve membrane treated elsewhere. This line shapes the signal waveform during transmission, that is, there being a specific pulse-like waveform peculiar to this line, smaller signals are amplified, larger ones are attenuated, narrower ones are widened and those which are wider are shrunk, all approaching the above-mentioned specific waveform. In addition, this line has a certain threshold value in respect to the signal height, and signals smaller than the threshold or noise are eliminated in the course of transmission. Because of the above-mentioned shaping action and the existence of a threshold, this line makes possible highly reliable pulse transmission, and will be useful for various kinds of information-processing systems."
"This report offers a rather general and mathematically convenient formulation of analog-modulated signals which makes use of the analytic signal concept. Known types of modulation are readily identified as special cases. As a result of examining the various cases which the model embraces, a new type of modulation has been discovered-single sideband frequency modulation (SSB FM)-which can be derived from a conventional phase-modulated signal by an additional amplitude modulation, using the exponential function of the modulating signal's Hilbert transform. The resulting modulated signal will have a one-sided spectrum about the carrier frequency, will be compatible with existing FM receivers, and will cause a decrease in signal bandwidth."
"Three independent sets of observations over a two-year period (1958-1960) involving the satellites 57021 and 58042 are described which show a marked correlation between satellite passes and ionospheric-ionization effects. The effects tend to peak at the time of near approach of the satellite or somewhat before with most of the effects occurring in the interval of 20 minutes before to 10 minutes after the satellite's passage. Other observations of some short-range effects are described which indicate a dependence of the effects on the satellite's heading as a function of the local time and on its position with respect to the observing location."
"Pieces of single crystals of rutile show high Q resonances in the microwave range. A piece about (1/7λ)3 has a Q as high as that of a metal-walled cavity at room temperature. Lowering the temperature increases both the Q and the resonant wavelength. Q's of 105 were seen at 4°K. A frequency equation of first- and second-order approximations was derived in terms of the dimensions and the anisotropic dielectric constant, ϵ', for rectangular parallelepiped resonators. Accurate values of anisotropic ϵ' were obtained. In the anisotropic medium there are two types of resonant modes, one of which has an outside E field similar to an electric multipole, and the other an outside magnetic field similar to a magnetic multipole. These two types of modes degenerate into one type if the dielectric is isotropic. Resonators were also made of ceramic rutile and strontium titanate, both of which had Q values of thousands. An extremely high unloaded Q, of the order of a million, was seen at 1.4°K on a KRS-5 (ThBr-Thl) single crystal at X band."
"A generalized theory of radar resolution has been developed to facilitate understanding of the fundamental resolution limitations of radar systems. Previous work by Woodward and Elspas to determine limitations on radar resolution led to the concept of an ambiguity function which is a quantitative measure of radar resolution in range and range rate. This theory has been extended to include simultaneous resolution in range, range rate, azimuth and elevation and led to the derivation of a four-dimensional ambiguity function. Resolution constants derived from the ambiguity function show clearly the trade-offs between system parameters and resolution. A new concept, \"angular dispersion and compression,\" has been evolved from the theoretical development. An angular compression system, analogous to a pulse compression system, employs a pseudo-randomly dispersed pattern which is compressed in angle at the receiver with a correlation technique, to produce the effect of a narrow beam without having a physically narrow beam. The signal bandwidth's effect on the pattern of an antenna and on its angular resolution has been found to be slight, except for very large bandwidths. It has been concluded that trade-offs between signal complexity and antenna complexity have no practical advantage. Because of the presence of noise, radar measurement of target parameters is essentially equivalent to statistical estimation. Woodward and Elspas have shown that the range, range-rate ambiguity function is the natural quantity to use in making a maximum likelihood estimate of range and range rate. The technique of maximum likelihood estimation has been extended to angular measurement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"A great variety of instruments are being used to measure geophysical parameters. Many of these parameters exhibit extremely small variations about a large average value. Since it is often the small variations that are of interest to the geophysicist, these instruments usually must be extremely sensitive and stable."
"Recent developments in aerospace technology make it possible to probe all regions of the atmosphere. Suitable sensors for taking observations in all regions do not yet exist. Electronics scientists and engineers are usually not familiar with these problems but they have the knowhow needed to solve them technically. Meteorological rockets, special observations from satellites and indirect probes are discussed briefly as examples. Evidently more contact between electronic and atmospheric scientists could yield a significant increase in our understanding of the atmosphere."
"The Upper Atmosphere can be examined from many points of view. For example, it can be considered as an aerodynamic, chemical, or electrical medium. This paper tabulates key parameters used in describing various atmospheric models and gives a brief indication of the instrumentation used in their measurement."
"Project VELA UNIFORM is part of a broad research program designed as the first full-fledged national effort for developing a specific type of arms control technology. Based on earth science research, the VELA UNIFORM effort is directed towards obtaining a suitable system for the detection, identification and location of nuclear explosions underground in support of a possible nuclear test ban. The principal work areas are classical and explosion seismology, the development of suitable field equipment and prototype observatories and data centers, and the conduct of an extensive monitoring program of seismic and other unique signatures from the present U. S. series of subsurface nuclear detonations."
"An automatic marine seismic monitoring and recording instrument of recoverable design is discussed. The instrument is capable of measuring three components of earth motion and water pressure waves and is intended for use on the ocean bottom at depths to 10,000 feet. Most previous seismic data has been recorded at land-based stations and the collection of ocean-floor seismic information will materially add to the knowledge of origin and propagation phenomena. Data are recorded on magnetic tape in digital form. Seismic motion is recorded in the 1-10 cps band with a sensitivity below 0.1 millimicron of earth movement. Pressure information is recorded over the same bandwidth with comparable sensitivity. Up to eight hours of data can be recorded on a programmed cycle during each implanting of the instrument. Initial sea tests of the instrument indicate that the unit functioned as desired. Several events recorded during the test period appeared to give valid seismic information. One of these events is described. Simultaneous recording of pressure and velocity is expected to enhance detection capability. It is planned in a future program to collect additional seismic information in much deeper waters and at sites chosen for maximum quality data return. The data will represent the first extensive effort to collect and analyze three-component seismic (plus pressure) information at great ocean depths."
"This paper describes the instrumentation and principal operating characteristics of one of the seismological observatories being established in the United States under Project VELA UNIFORM. Seismic detectors are arranged in arrays to provide directional sensitivity, noise cancellation, and velocity filtering. They are located in remote, seismically quiet areas. Signals in the frequency range of 0.001 to 10 cps are detected, amplified, and recorded by four individual instrumentation systems, each exhibiting a frequency response tailored to permit studies of a specific type of earth motion. Seismic detectors used produce output power levels of approximately 10-5 watts when driven by normal earth background vibrations. Amplification is provided by galvanometer-phototube bridge amplifiers. Data are recorded on magnetic tape, 16-mm strip film and on heat-sensitive paper."
"Geophysical exploration techniques and instruments have been coupled with more conventional recording equipment to obtain design data for an underwater tunnel. The system was designed specifically to measure the phenomenon of displacement multiplication between the underlying competent rock and the overlying sand-clay and mud layers. The resulting recordings clearly show this effect."
"Various types of measuring devices are lowered on cable into holes drilled for oil or gas for the purpose of logging formation and borehole properties. Among major objectives of oil well logging are the location of porous zones, bed definition, and interpretation for lithology and hydrocarbon saturation. These objectives are realized indirectly by measurement of related physical parameters. Several devices are described for the borehole measurement of electrical, nuclear, sonic, and radioactive quantities, and environmental problems encountered in the design of such devices are discussed. Many of the measuring techniques developed for this purpose are applicable in other fields such as oceanography."
"Well logging involves the measurement of many physical parameters in the depths of an oil well and the continuous transmission of these measurements to the surface for processing and recording. Many of the techniques used are quite advanced. There is good prospect of using them to advantage in the oceans, because many of the parameters measured in these two regions are alike and because many of the environmental conditions encountered are similar. Measurements commonly made include, for example, temperature, conductivity, sound velocity and radioactivity. Data is recorded at the surface in analog form on film and, more recently, in digital form on magnetic tape. Other services are available too, such as the taking of fluid and solid samples. Unique hardware has been developed for use at high ambient pressure, including electrical connectors and swivels for multiconductor armored cables. In the area of cable handling gear, large-capacity smooth-control winches with low-noise slip rings are a significant development. This paper is devoted to discussing a number of the interesting aspects of the parallels between well logging and the marine sciences."
"By means of the ASWEPS Shipboard System, it will be possible for a variety of vessels to systematically and accurately collect the large volume of data necessary to establish a synoptic picture of the underwater environment. Because the design of the Shipboard System is integrated with the projected central processing and communication facilities for the over-all ASWEPS System, it will be possible to handle this large volume of data expeditiously. The Shipboard System itself incorporates a number of advances in the state-of-the-art in sensor technology deck equipment and data-handling techniques. It should thus not only serve the function of contributing to environmental prediction, but also represents a significant advance in the field of instrumentation in the oceanographic community."
"The drilling of the Mohole, a hole through the crust of the earth, will be undertaken from a drilling ship operating in true oceanic depths. Because anchoring at these depths is infeasible, the position of the drilling ship above the hole in the ocean floor must be controlled by surface propulsion units. This concept is called \"dynamic positioning.\" An experimental drilling program was undertaken in 1961 to determine, among other engineering factors, whether dynamic positioning was feasible. A special integrated control system was developed for four steering propellers which permitted a single operator to control the position of the experimental drilling ship, CUSS I. The system operated successfully for a month at sea and proved that dynamic positioning was not only feasible but entirely practical. This system is expected to form the basis for the control of future waterborne vehicles for geophysical and oceanographic research."
"This paper describes the meteorological and data readout instrumentation on a 1400-ft television tower near Dallas, Tex., with sensors located at 12 levels for observing wind and temperature. The data provided by the 36 sensors are integrated for preset intervals, sampled periodically and read out automatically onto punched tape and an electric typewriter. Salient features of the installation are described and samples of the data are shown. As illustrations, meteorological data taken during the passage of Hurricane Carla in the Fall of 1961 and during a low level jet situation are presented."
"An Astrobee 200 rocket was instrumented with a multiple ionospheric experiment for firing at Eglin Air Force Base, Fla. Eight probing instruments and a propagation experiment were carried for the simultaneous measurement of electron density, positive ion density, electron temperature, vehicle potential and incoming radiation. The planning, experiments, tracking, telemetry, attitude and ejection systems, field operations, data recording and reduction, and preliminary results are described. It is a good model of a complex operation illustrating the coordinated effort required between groups of different responsibility."
"The Orbiting Geophysical Observatories are systems designed to fulfill a primary objective of conducting large numbers of significant, diversified experiments for making scientific and technological measurements within the earth's atmosphere, the magnetosphere, and cislunar space to obtain a better understanding of earth-sun relationships and the earth as a planet. Configured to meet scientific requirements, the observatories include six booms of different lengths for experiments requiring locations at a distance from the main body. Five degrees of freedom allow the capability of continuously orienting solar and antisolar, geocentric and antigeocentric, and orbital experiments within relatively close limits. Weighing 1000 pounds, of which 150 pounds are exclusively experiments, the observatories have potential of growth to 1500 pounds and carrying more experiments. Designed to include five basic subsystems of structure, stabilization and control, power supply, communications and data handling, and thermal control, the observatories have well-defined interfaces for experiments. This basic design fulfills a secondary objective of having available for launching at regular intervals a standard-type spacecraft consisting of a basic design that can be used repeatedly to carry large numbers of easily integrated experiments in a wide variety of orbits."
"It is hoped that before long the United States will safely land a Ranger instrument package containing a seismometer on the Moon. Waves from moonquakes, if they occur, and meteoric impacts will be detected, telemetered to Earth and registered for study. From the seismograms may be deduced information concerning the Moon's near surface and interior structure. This paper is an abbreviated description of instrumentation for the experiment."
"Two short series of tests involving measuring low-frequency electromagnetic radiation from ten-gram explosive charges in air and water have revealed signals lower than 1 cps, of duration occasionally greater than fifteen seconds. Care was used to insure that the signals were not of microphonic or other spurious origin. While radiation from explosions is well known, it is believed that the extremely low frequencies and long persistence as well as their occurrence in water are novel. No theory appears to fit all aspects of the phenomenon. Possibly related natural signals are discussed and an experimental program to yield information to formulate a hypothesis is described briefly."
"Absolute measurements of gravity are needed for establishing several physical standards: relative measurements for determining the shape of the earth and in geophysical prospecting. The time variation at a given place is of interest in connection with tidal deformations and free oscillations of the earth. The techniques currently in use for making these various measurements are described, including surface-ship and airborne surveys. The sources of error in each type of measurement are discussed and the presently obtainable accuracies indicated."
"The process of restoring signal resolution to data recorded from a sluggish measuring device may be accomplished by appropriate mathematical operations on the data using a large digital computer. Smoothing techniques may be applied in the transform domain to derive an inverse convolver to be used in real space. The inverse convolver, a non-physically realizable filter function, when convolved with the output of the device, restores high-frequency components necessary for sharp detail. Only knowledge of the impulse response of the device and the recorded data is required. In applications to data of the type found in many geophysical systems impressive results are obtained even in the presence of considerable random noise. This procedure represents a different approach to the approximation required by the process and has advantages in the ease and simplicity with which it may be applied."
"The problem of solar cell damage by proton and electron radiation is treated analytically from a theoretical and empirical viewpoint. The general approach is to form a damage integral, consisting of the integral over the energy spectrum, for both electrons and protons, of an integrand formed by the product of the differential energy spectrum and a damage function, and to relate this damage integral to the deterioration of solar cells under irradiation. The damage function is considered theoretically from the microscopic viewpoint of collision theory and empirically by using available experimental data. By making several approximations and assumptions, the data from the solar cell patches on Explorer XI is compared with predictions based upon the empirical relationship developed for the damage integral."
"Seismograph design is discussed in the general terms of band pass, control of response characteristics through mechanical and electrical modifications of the system, and the limitations imposed on sensitivity when some seemingly innocuous numbers are ignored. Earth vibration amplitudes of one Angstrom or less, and power-sensing levels as low as 10-20 watts are considered, implying that instrumental noise levels should be even lower under some circumstances. A discussion of transducer elements leads to the conclusion that the incorporation of a galvanometer into the motion-amplifying system offers at least as good a system as can be devised by other means. The concept of a platform stabilized against seismic disturbances is outlined as an interesting and probably important sidelight on seismograph design. Remarks on mechanical construction are included as guidance to designers because certain details, such as spring proportions, lever systems, crossed flexure plate hinges and suspension members with controlled regions of bending have been found extremely effective while other details of design have produced elusive troubles. Some design features are illustrated in the construction of certain seismographs in whose design the authors have an interest. The problem of level sensitivity for horizontal component seismometers is outlined to show its basic nature, and some possible solutions."
"In the magnetotelluric analysis proposed by Cagniard, a resistivity profile of a homogeneous stratified earth model is determined from the ratio of the tangential components of the natural electric and magnetic fields at the surface of the earth. This type of analysis is often confused by the fact that apparent resistivity estimates obtained from data recorded at one site on different occasions may vary considerably. Also the apparent resistivities computed from one component of the E field and its orthogonal H field component may be significantly different from those computed from another pair of orthogonal field components. Cantwell points out that these variations may, at least in part, be due to two-dimensional inhomogeneities and/or anisotropies together with randomly polarized magnetotelluric fields. Accordingly he has suggested testing the wave impedance of the earth as a rank two tensor. This paper describes a measurement and analysis procedure developed using a model based on a two-dimensional wave impedance tensor. It was found that a rotation of the measuring axis to minimize the main diagonal terms in the impedance tensor yields a reasonably consistent estimate of the direction and magnitude of a major inhomogeneity in the apparent resistivity profile."
"Past and present observations of magnetic and telluric field variations are reviewed. Particular attention is given to measurement of the related E and H fields for very-low-frequency (0.001-1.0 cps) vertically incident waves and the characteristics and probable origins of these waves are discussed. Current techniques for measuring these waves include orthogonal sets of earth current probes, mutually perpendicular air-core loops, high-mu cores wound with many turns, and modem optical pumping magnetometers. Simultaneous observations of the E and H fields of these waves may be employed in geophysics for vertical profiling, resistivity determinations, the location of faults, axes of inhomogeneity, and ore bodies. In addition such observations are of great value in observing the complex interplay of the solar corpuscular stream (\"solar wind\") and the earth's magnetic field, and may also be employed as indicators of high altitude nuclear events."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Experimental studies of double injection (DI) negative resistance phenomena in GaAs, Si, and Ge are presented. V-I characteristics, switching, trapping, and photosensitivity properties of GaAs DI p-i-n diodes, fabricated by diffusion and alloying processes on semi-insulating crystals and in other cases fabricated via epitaxial processes with Cu-doped i regions, are described. Similar studies and data are presented on Si DI p-i-n diodes prepared via diffusion and/or alloying processes. Silicon DI p-i-n diodes are described which have been doped with various deep level impurities such as Au, Zn, Cd, or Co and which, depending upon the kind and concentration of deep level impurities, display a wide range of behavior including useful photosensitivity, switching, and voltage regulation properties. Brief mention is made of Ge DI p-i-n diodes fabricated on n-type crystals counter-doped with Cu, Fe, Ni, Co, or Mn. A comparison is made between experimental results and current theories of double injection effects. As might be expected, existing theories do not completely account for the experimental situation, e.g., breakdown to constant voltage in certain units and phenomena which seem closely related to plasma effects. In addition to various practical implications, including possibilities for a noninteracting diode negative resistance matrix, low voltage regulator diodes, photosensitive charge-storage diodes, and higher power microwave switching p-i-n diodes, the significance of deep level doping and possible and actual effects (e.g., secondary switching effects) on epitaxial Si devices are described."
"The madistor is a new active device which makes use of the effects of a magnetic field on an injection plasma in a semiconductor. The formation of an injection plasma has been observed in p-type InSb at temperatures below 100°K as donor traps become saturated by electrons injected through a forward biased n+p junction. In an appropriately designed n+pp+ diode, the saturation of traps and the subsequent increase in electron lifetime bring about an abrupt decrease of base resistance, and a negative resistance region is observed in the current-voltage characteristic. Because of the high mobility of electrons in InSb (5×105 cm2/vsec) the plasma can be appreciably deflected and deformed by transverse magnetic fields of the order of 10 gauss. The possibility of controlling the position of a plasma inside a solid by means of a magnetic field can be utilized in a number of different types of madistors in which the input circuit is isolated from the output. The operation at 77°K of four types of InSb madistors has been studied. The first makes use of a specially designed n+ pp+ diode mounted in the air gap of a small ferromagnetic-core electromagnet. A small change in the electromagnet winding current produces a magnetic field at the diode and causes a larger change in diode current. Typically an increase in mmf of 200-ma turns produces an additional magnetic field intensity of 5 gauss which decreases the diode current by 10 ma."
"This paper contains a discussion of several major problem areas concerning the design, construction, systems application and threshold improving properties of the Frequency Compression Demodulator. A complete description of an experimental broad-band demodulator is presented. This demodulator is intended for use in an intercontinental satellite communication system and is suitable for either television or telephone service. Circuit details, performance data, and a measured comparison with FM are presented."
"A solid-state display device based on a new principle is described. The device consists of a thin, flat panel of piezoelectric material supporting an electroluminescent layer. Voltage pulses, applied to a few electrodes on the periphery of the panel, introduce traveling elastic waves into the piezoelectric material. Electric fields which accompany the waves interact with the electroluminescent layer to produce a localized \"spot\" of illumination. The position of the spot is controlled by varying the relative timing of the pulses to produce either a raster or an oscilloscope pattern. Means for continuously modulating the light intensity of the spot are also described."
"As thin-film cryotron circuits become faster, the detailed properties of the components themselves have an increasing effect on over-all circuit operation. When a cryotron switches from the superconducting to the resistive state in a fast circuit, its inductive characteristics can change enough to add appreciable delay and dissipation to its driving circuit. The inductive and resistive transition of the component can be accompanied by diamagnetic hysteresis and by eddy-current-damping effects, which add to dissipation and further delay the switching of the component. These component and circuit effects are complex and interrelated, but considerable insight is gained by analyzing separately various portions of the general behavior."
"Measurements are reported on beyond-the-horizon propagation losses at 400 Mcps. Data are given on the losses and their variations from 98 to 830 mi beyond the horizon. The transmission loss between isotropic antennas varies from about 190 db at 100 mi to about 300 db at 800 mi distance. Also described are measurements of frequency-selective fading, space diversity, and variations in the angle of arrival of the signals."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper, originally presented at the 1961 WESCON Convention, is intended as an introduction to the principles and possible applications of the optical maser. Very little prior knowledge on the part of the reader is assumed. The intent is to acquaint him with these exciting new devices with the hope that he, in turn, will discover applications not foreseen by the author. The methods of generating coherent radiation, of focussing it, and of collimating it into tight beams are described. The use of lasers for communication is explored, and certain medical and other applications are suggested."
"The requirement for long-life transistors places stringent demands on sealing processes. There are empirical reasons for believing that water content is a critical factor and should be preserved at a very low value. The first consequent problem is to design the sealing operation so that the encapsulate is sufficiently dry at the beginning of life. A practicable solution demands the use of moisture getters and the properties and usage of these are compared. The second problem is to reduce later leakage of water vapor into the can to a low level. The radioactive method of leak detection is shown to be the most satisfactory to use for controlling the quality of the high-grade packages required."
"Modulation-demodulation (M-D) amplifiers are four-terminal unidirectional amplifiers in which amplitude modulators with conversion gain are followed by demodulators. This paper describes wideband video M-D amplifiers (voltage-gain-bandwidth product = 1.5 Gc), low-noise RF M-D amplifiers (signal frequency = 1.2 Gc, voltage-gain-bandwidth product = 70 Mc, noise figure < 3 db), and ultra-high-speed M-D logic circuits (possible pulse repetition rates of the order of 109 per second). The wideband video M-D amplifier is analyzed and satisfactory agreement between theory and experiment is obtained."
"A class of variable-frequency sinusoidal oscillators requiring only a single active element is analyzed. The frequency of oscillation is approximately proportional (directly or inversely) to the square root of the gm of the active element. The analysis is carried out in two steps. The first step allows one to write the relation between the frequency and the circuit parameters almost by inspection, and also to determine easily an upper bound on the loading. The second step is a more detailed analysis yielding certain circuit constraints which must be met in order that the relations determined in the first step be valid. Two experimental circuits are described and compared to the theory."
"The results of the special theory of relativity have been used to modify the nonlinear interaction equations for linear-beam devices to account for relativistic mass changes when the electron velocity is a significant fraction of the velocity of light. The effect of these mass changes on gain and efficiency is evaluated and it is found that the gain is reduced and the efficiency increases rapidly as ke approaches one. The velocity spread in the stream is independent of the voltage. The harmonic current amplitudes and optimum drift distances are calculated for a relativistic klystron and one finds that as ke approaches one the klystron behaves according to a ballistic theory."
"Upper bounds are obtained for the error, termed truncation error, which arises in reconstituting a band-limited function by summing over only a finite number (instead of the requisite infinite number) of samples of this function in an appropriate sampling-theorem expansion. Upper bounds are given for the truncation errors of the Cardinal and Fogel sampling expansions and for \"self-truncating\" versions of these two sampling expansions; these latter sampling expansions are \"self-truncating\" in the sense that the upper bounds on their truncation errors are almost always much lower than the upper bounds on the truncation errors of their prototype sampling expansions. All of the upper bounds are given as functions of three parameters: M, the maximum magnitude of the band-limited function; q, the per unit guard band (assuming that the band-limited function is sampled at a rate greater than the Nyquist rate); and N, the measure of the number of samples in the finite summation of terms of the sampling expansion."
"In some semiconductors the conduction band system has two minima separated by only a small energy, and the lower minimum has associated with it a smaller electron effective mass than the upper minimum. At high electric fields it should be possible to transfer electrons to the upper minimum where they will have a lower mobility. The conductivity of a homogeneous crystal bar can therefore decrease as the field is increased, and it is conceivable that a differential negative resistance could be obtained. The conditions needed for obtaining negative resistance are examined, and calculations made for GaSb and semi-insulating GaAs. It appears that negative resistances should be observable in both these materials."
"Several ac rectifier circuits have the property, inherent in the rectification process, of limiting their output current to a specified maximum. They are technically simple and can be used as the foundation for power supplies that remain undamaged and absorb little power with a short-circuited load. In combination with a dc regulator, such a rectifier provides a constant-voltage supply with desirable overload characteristics. A modified bridge rectifier is especially useful."
"The 3-db cutoff frequency and the gain-bandwidth product are calculated for the common-emitter current gain. The calculation is made in a simple manner and in general form so as to apply to all transistors. The gain-bandwidth product is shown to be determined by the transit time across the base and the space-charge capacitances. The gain-bandwidth product reaches a maximum for drift transistors at a critical current. This current is given."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This is a tutorial paper. The derivation of the classical Debye expression for the radio refractive index is reviewed. Recent determinations of the constants in this expression are reviewed and the conclusion reached that differences between constants are small compared with the error in using standard meteorological data in the formula. The various transformations of refractive index data are discussed as a natural result of the model assumed for its height distribution. The effect of the use of the various units is illustrated by examples drawn from radio climatology and the refraction of radio waves."
"A method for approximate optimization of superconducting solenoids based on an extension of the classical Fabry formulation is presented. Graphs of pertinent parameters were prepared for the regions of interest for superconductors. Several sample calculations illustrate the differences in design factors as compared with conventional magnets."
"It is shown that there exists an absolute lower limit to device size and an absolute upper limit to packing density of nonredundant semiconductor devices, whether integrated or nonintegrated, based on fundamental physical phenomena such as statistical variations in impurity distribution, maximum resolution of semiconductor fabrication methods, power density and influence of cosmic rays. The influence of these phenomena falls in two categories, namely failures that appear during the fabrication of the devices (impurity distribution, dividing operation) and failures that appear during use. The latter may be temporary failures (cosmic ray ionization, carrier fluctuations) or permanent failures (atomic displacements by cosmic rays, heat generation). For a medium size computer (105 components) with a reasonable life expectancy (1 month mean time between failures), the minimum device size under reasonable conditions is approximately (10μ)3, which is not far from devices now in the planning stage and within reach with eidsting techniques. It is within a factor of 2-5 of the dimensions of the active region of many devices of today. As microminiaturization by mere reduction in size appears headed for a not too distant limit it appears necessary from a device point of view to consider remedies which also have been suggested from a system point of view, namely redundancy, self-organizing systems, negative feedback, etc."
"A number of structures are analyzed which consist of arrays of parallel conductors between ground planes or above a single ground plane. These include interdigital line, meander line, a form of helix, \"hairpin line,\" and reactively-loaded comb line. Equations are derived for determining the phase function Ψ per section of line in terms of voltage coupling factors K1n which are obtained from the static capacitances per unit length of the conductors. Equations for the image impedance of finite arrays are obtained for three of the five cases considered. Data for computing coupling factors are presented for arrays using small wires between ground planes and for arrays having conductor dimensions such that fringing capacitance beyond nearest neighbors can be neglected. Phase characteristics for given coupling factors are presented for the various types of structures considered. These results indicate that certain of the structures have special merit for use as filters, or as slow-wave structures. An interdigital-line filter using ten conductors was constructed and found to have excellent band-pass filter characteristics and a bandwidth which is in very good agreement with the theory."
"The combination of nonlinear resistance (NR) and nonlinear capacitance (NC) elements for parametric frequency conversion shows promise for obtaining nonreciprocal features not present in pure NR or pure NC networks. This paper treats the simplest NR-NC combinations consisting of a single NR element connected either in series or in parallel with a single NC element. When the NR and NC elements are \"pumped\" in time quadrature, such circuits are capable of yielding unconditionally stable up-conversion gains, for both the inverting and noninverting case, considerably in excess of the output-to-input frequency ratios. Simultaneously, the down-conversion loss can be made infinite at one frequency and considerably in excess of the up-conversion gain over a band of frequencies. With ideal NR and NC elements, the maximum available up-conversion gain to either an inverted or noninverted sideband with unconditional stability (|down-conversion loss|≥|up-conversion gain|) approaches the square of the output-to-input frequency ratio."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The propagation of a radio signal and the propagation in the time domain is reviewed for linear amplitude systems. The particular case of the propagation of a ground wave pulse is considered in detail. A stretching in the form or shape of the pulse is noted as a result of the filtering action of the propagation medium. Theoretical transfer characteristics for the media of propagation of LF signals are introduced and methods of computation are considered. The particular case of a signal transmitted between two points on the earth's surface is considered from the viewpoint of propagation in the time domain. The field of LF waves propagated around the earth is, in large measure, influenced by the reflection and transmission processes at the ionosphere. Such processes are evaluated theoretically with the aid of Maxwell's equations together with an equation which describes the electron motion in the presence of a static magnetic field, a superposed electrodynamic field together with mechanical collisions between electrons and ions, such as the Langevin equation of motion of the electron. The use of full mathematical rigor in the application of these equations is feasible and indeed desirable at LF. Thus, the application of these equations to an electron-ion model plasma with arbitrary orientation of the superposed magnetic induction results in anisotropic transmission and reflection properties. The full rigor can be applied to model plasmas in which the electron density and collision frequency vary with altitude."
"A method is described which enables video signals to be transmitted by the pulse code modulation system known as delta-modulation. A tunnel-diode balanced pair (Goto pair) is used for converting the video signal into a binary signal. With a new and very simple circuit, operating at a bit rate of 100 Mc, a ratio of signal-to-quantizing noise of 42 db is obtained. A more conventional circuit, that combines tunnel-diodes with transistors, makes an even lower quantizing noise possible."
"An experimental display system featuring a solid-state display screen has been constructed and evaluated. The system includes a 256-cell-per-square-inch electroluminescent panel, row and column drivers for the panel distribution matrix, and character generation equipment to form target images on the display in accordance with a computer-word input. The brightness pattern on the 4-by-8-inch electroluminescent panel is controlled and stored by a ferroelectric microarray. A matrix of gaseous discharge elements called ionic switches distributes the control signals to the ferroelectric structure. Both conventional and novel techniques were used to fabricate the panel. Less than 2 per cent of the 8192 cells of the completed panel are faulty. Highlight brightness is 2.8 foot-lamberts and contrast is 25:1; both figures are below design objectives due to limits set on panel excitation for this model. Image storage time is more than adequate for the 5 seconds frame time of the system, and the electronic scanning matrix performs as required. The general appearance of target images on the panel is satisfactory although uniformity can be improved by better mechanical design and fabrication process control."
"Multipactor discharges in high vacuum are employed as switching mechanism for high-power microwave duplexers and voltage controlled switches. The devices described handle peak powers up to 5.5 Mw at nanosecond switching speed. Further characteristics include freedom from spike leakage and practically instantaneous recovery times. A survey is given of the underlying multipactor theory. Developmental S-band multipactor duplexers and switches are described. Their advantages, limitations and potential improvements are discussed."
"A device is described which intensity modulates a light beam at modulating frequencies in the microwave region. A high-Q re-entrant capacity-loaded coaxial-line resonator employing a properly oriented slab of uniaxial crystal of the dihydrogen phosphate variety as its dielectric medium is coupled to a microwave-frequency generator tuned to the fundamental cavity mode. A light path is provided through the resonator so that a beam of plane polarized light can pass through the crystal into a suitably oriented analyzer. The intensity of the light beam emerging from the latter varies at the same rate as the cavity frequency."
"A wind tunnel with water as a lower surface has been used to obtain experimental data on the statistical distributions of facet size in relationship to wind velocity, facet slope, and flatness tolerance. Flatness tolerance is defined as one-tenth of the radar wavelength. Using the above experimental data, calculations are presented which, for the first time, relate the upwind-to-downwind ratio of radar return with radar beam depression angle for various wind velocities and radar wavelengths. Comparison with available sea-clutter measurements are made. It is concluded that the concept of facet size in relationship to flatness tolerance and slope distribution is useful for describing a rough surface from which radar waves are reflected."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the future of engineering profession in 2012 A.D. "
"May 13, 1962, marks the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of The Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE). This occasion is used to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the beginnings of modern electronics and communications. In this brief essay, the author takes the reader on a unique journey fifty years into the future, and describes the likely state of the art in 2012 A.D. as the author envisions it."
"Predictions for biomedicine in the year 2012 are made covering: organ replacement, inspection and repair; genetic studies; and electronic diagnosis, treatment and prognosis."
"Index of authors of papers and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The state-of-the-art in aircraft operations and in radio technology for the very early period of aeronautical navigation is given, and the technical evolution during the first twenty-five years of IRE is covered. Policy and organizational problems of the transition to the second twenty-five-year period are mentioned. A discussion is given of the World War II system developments, the introduction of pulse techniques and the race toward the microwave portion of the spectrum. This is followed by a discussion of self-contained systems. Illustrations are provided covering some of the more fundamental spatial characteristics of electronic navigation systems."
"The air traffic control problem consists of operational, technical, and political elements. This paper, however, is confined to the technical (equipment) aspects of the problem. The equipment subsystem consists of five essential elements. These are: Type I-means whereby pilots of aircraft may know their positions and means whereby they may be able to conduct their aircraft over any arbitrarily chosen routes from terminal to terminal; Type II-means whereby a central decision-making entity may be able to know the position of all aircraft within its jurisdiction; Type III-means where-by the decision-making entity can determine instantly safe, nonconflicting flight procedures for all aircraft within its purview; Type IV-means whereby instantaneous safe-flight instructions may be transmitted unambiguously to all aircrafts concerned; Type V-means whereby action may be coordinated among the several central flightinstruction, decision-making entities. The paper lists the significant actions which have affected the air traffic control equipment subsystem. It gives the history of the various units which form the present equipment subsystem and forecasts the equipment that may constitute the future traffic control subsystem."
"In space a successfully navigated craft must not only reach its intended destination, but must arrive there at the right time for rendezvous, and with a suitable velocity vector. Power limitations impose severe restrictions upon the amount of maneuvering that can be performed. Navigation techniques differ somewhat during the escape phase, in the vicinity of a planet and its natural satellites, during the midcourse phase of an interplanetary flight, and during the terminal phase. The most useful coordinate system is radius from a celestial body and some form of \"latitude\" and \"longitude\" on the sphere thus defined. Quantities measured are speed, direction, distance, acceleration, angles, and time. Of these, speed and direction of travel cannot now be measured to navigational accuracy. Position in space can be determined electronically, optically, and by inertial navigation, each under suitable conditions. Use of physical phenomena is not promising. A general-purpsoe digital computer will be needed. No order of magnitude improvement in state of the art is needed to produce a first-generation fully automatic space-navigation system, but considerable development work is required."
"The prediction by Maxwell in 1865 that electric oscillations in a circuit produce electric waves in the surrounding space stimulated scientists to devise experiments to detect the presence of these waves. Following the classical experiments of Hertz in 1888, many attempts were made to communicate at a distance by electric waves. Marconi was the first to demonstrate a complete workable system. His success was largely due to his clear understanding that high antennas with top loading were essential to transmitting signals over considerable distances. Since the early transmitters utilized spark gaps directly between the antenna and ground, the wavelength of the energy radiated increased as the dimensions of the antenna increased. This naturally led to the idea that long wavelengths were required for operation over long distances, particularly during day-light as indicated by Marconi. Thus, the usefulness of short waves for long-distance communication during daylight was destined to remain unknown until some 30 years later when Marconi himself pioneered the development of long-distance communication with short waves. The development of various types of long-wave antennas is described to the end of World War I."
"Hertz in the 1880's demonstrated electromagnetic wave propagation predicted by Maxwell from his equations in 1864. Heaviside and Kennelly postulated the ionosphere to explain Marconi's historical transatlantic reception of radio waves in 1901. Austin derived the first formula for radio propagation in 1911 from experimental data in the kilometer wavelength range taken in the daytime. Much theoretical effort was expended on the effect of the electrical properties of the ground but the problem was not resolved until a later date. Watson, however, cleared up the problem of diffraction around a perfectly conducting sphere in 1919. Up to the end of World War I, it was generally believed that radio transmission improved with increase in wavelength so the experimental data is concentrated in this region."
"The advances in antenna theory concepts and designs between World War I and World War II are summarized. Rapid growth of world-wide and regional broadcasting and point-to-point radio communication stimulated the design of high-power low-frequency transmitting antennas of reasonable efficiency, directive-wave antennas for signal-to-noise improvement in low-frequency reception, rhombic and V-shape wave antennas and arrays of various types for directive short-wave transmission and reception."
"The period between World Wars I and II, 1918 to 1941, is particularly noteworthy for the significant developments that led to a comprehensive understanding of the factors that control the propagation of radio waves through the atmosphere. In slightly over two decades it became possible to identify the basic physical mechanisms with the aid and correlation of theory and experiment, so that by the end of this period it was possible to prepare predictions of future propagation conditions covering a wide variety of frequencies, transmission paths, for day and night, and seasonal variations. During the entire period, numbers of scientists were working toward the calculation of field strengths of radio waves propagated by both the ground wave and the ionosphere. Watson's paper in 1918 initiated the ground wave calculations by considering the propagation over a perfectly conducting sphere. It was soon recognized that the ground could not be treated as perfectly conducting, and the theory of propagation for an imperfectly conducting ground was not produced in usable form until the 1937-1941 period. Watson's predictions for field strengths in the shadow zone proved to be much lower than experimental values. This led to increased interest in the ionosphere as a possible explanation. Effective work on ionospheric problems began in 1924 with the development of the Eccles-Larmor theory of electronic behavior. The effect of the earth's magnetic field extended this theory to include doubly refracting layers and ionospheric layer anistropy."
"During World War II intensive efforts of radio engineers and physicists resulted in the invention of many new types of antennas and in advances in fundamental antenna theory. The paper presents the results of this work in relation to the principal problem areas that were recognized during that period: 1) sidelobe suppression; 2) beam-shaping techniques; 3) beam-scanning techniques; 4) broadbanding; 5) antenna siting. In each of these areas major advances were made, both in operating hardware and in theoretical understanding."
"Many publications have appeared which describe the very extensive wartime radio-wave propagation research. References to some of these summaries are given which cover some aspects of this research as carried out in the United States, England, the U.S.S.R., Japan and Germany. These summaries are most complete for the work done in the United States, England and Japan. A summary is then given of some of the wartime research in the United States on direction finders and the polarization of downcoming ionospheric radio waves. This is followed by some heretofore unpublished material on Japanese ionospheric research which, by way of example, clearly indicates that an April, 1942, paper by Maeda, Uyeda and Shinkawa contains the first definite identification and interpretation of the F2-layer longitude effect. Finally a brief summary is given of a few selected topics in propagation research which arose out of the wartime development of radar."
"Progress in the quantitative understanding of antennas as circuit elements, transmitters, receivers and scatterers of electromagnetic radiation is reviewed briefly for the period 1945-1961. Advances in the design of selected radiating systems with special properties are indicated. Specific reference is made to the impedance, current distribution, and pattern characteristic of cylindrical dipoles, singly and in arrays. Particular developments touched upon include slot and surface wave antennas, microwave antennas and microwave lenses, super-gain antennas, and very large antennas and arrays for radio astronomy and satellite communication. Frequency-independent \"angle\" antennas and log-periodic structures are reviewed briefly."
"Since the early 1940's the development of new propagation modes has greatly increased man's ability to communicate. Some of the outstanding advances are briefly reviewed."
"Although the rate and direction of advancement of the antenna field depends to a large extent on new inventions and techniques, and on the discovery of new materials, it is possible to indicate some of the trends which may be expected. The major advances in the near future will probably come in the areas of data-processing antennas and dynamic antennas. In the data-processing antenna, increased information is obtained by processing the signals available at the antenna terminals; in dynamic antennas, antenna performance is enhanced by time-modulating the aperture transfer function. It is likely that the most significant applications of dataprocessing antennas will be in the fields of radio astronomy and communications. Electronic scanning, another well-known technique of beam pointing, should lend itself naturally to the data-processing antenna approach, particularly since, for other purposes, the arrays will be used with computers. Such antennas will supersede movable large reflector types, for communication with space vehicles. Very large electronic scanning antennas will probably be built on the ground or on a horizontal plane, for minimum wind resistance. It may be expected, further, that electronic scanning arrays will be built in various shapes for installation on missiles or satellites. In order to achieve larger antennas for increased tracking and communications capability, greater transmitted power, larger apertures, and natural geographic features may be used as foundation elements of the antenna. Canyons and cliffs, for example, could be used as reflecting surfaces if suitably coated."
"It is predicted that the future of propagation research and development will involve: 1) world-wide radio communication via satellites, 2) greatly increased interest in the magnetosphere and the solar atmosphere, 3) greatly increased interest in the atmospheres and surfaces of planets, 4) a far wider interpretation of the notion of radio frequency, both at the lower and the upper ends of the spectrum, 5) extensive use of new methods for investigating the top side of the ionosphere by both reflection and scattering techniques, 6) the discovery of new phenomena by the use of large antennas, high-power transmitters and low-noise receivers, and, 7) greatly increased interest in the propagation of sonic and tidal waves in the atmosphere."
"Of the various manifestations of a sound wave, the action of pressure on a diaphragm still is the universal means for detecting the presence of sound. The diaphragm actuates a transducer converting its motions into equivalent electrical waves. Innumerable transducers have been tried, but five are pre-eminent: 1) carbon, 2) condenser, 3) piezoelectric, 4) moving conductor, 5) moving armature. Important microphone improvements during the late twenties and the thirties have come about as a result of application of equivalent circuit analysis to acoustical structures. The principle of pressure microphones, pressure gradient microphones, combination microphones and phase shift microphones are described. Each of these has found an important niche in modem microphone applications. A small number of important applications require super-directional microphones. Here three approaches are used: 1) reflectors, refractors and diffractors, 2) line microphones, 3) higher-order combination microphones. In the future, improvements in design of directional microphones will continue. Wireless microphones are bound to increase in popularity. New methods of transduction based upon solid-state technology appear to be imminent. Unconventional methods of sound pickup may find wide use in space communication."
"A loudspeaker is an electroacoustic transducer intended to radiate acoustic power into the air, the acoustical waveform being essentially equivalent to that of the electrical input. Electrodynamic, electromagnetic and electrostatic driving systems have been used for loudspeakers operating in air. However, during the past two decades the electrodynamic has overwhelmingly predominated in all applications for loudspeakers operating in air. The almost universal use of the direct-radiator dynamic loudspeaker in radio receivers, phonographs, magnetic-tape reproducers, television receivers, announce and intercommunicating systems is due to the simplicity of construction, small space requirements and the relatively uniform response-frequency characteristics. For small-scale applications the low efficiency of the direct-radiator loudspeaker is not a handicap. However, for large-scale high-power sound applications, the high-efficiency horn loudspeaker is particularly suitable because the amplifier requirements are reduced by an order of magnitude. For the future, the promising developments in loudspeakers appear to be in the field of motion control."
"In 1878, Thomas Alva Edison built the first working phonograph but it remained for Berliner to bring together the various ideas which charted its future course. Major electroacoustical advances responsible for vast improvement in disk recording and reproduction took place during and after World War I, and into the twenties, such as the concept of mechanical and acoustical impedance, \"electrical recording,\" folded exponential hom, and electromechanical pickup. Further advances occurred in the thirties: utilization of Rochelle salt crystals in phonograph pickups, the use of negative feedback in recording, as well as significant contributions to the theory of groovestylus relationships. The end of World War II marked the beginning of \"high fidelity\" as a household word including developments of improved magnetic pickups, advances in measurements and calibrations, utilization of barium titanate transducers and improved record materials, and culminating with the introduction of longplaying records. The fifties saw an ever widening use of magnetic tape for mastering, development of hot-stylus and variable-pitch recording techniques, and continued trend toward lightweight pickup design. These improvements, combined with ideas on binaural and stereophonic recording that have been dormant since the twenties and thirties paved the way to the introduction of stereophonic disks in 1957. In the hands of the artist and the composer the advances in disk recording are leading to new art forms as well as to more faithful reproduction of great classics."
"In a historical summary of motion-picture sound recording and reproduction, some of the technical problems and solutions are discussed, starting with the conversion of silent motionpicture studios to sound studios. During the early years, both the sound-on-disk system (arner Vitaphone) and the sound-onilm system (Fox Movietone) were used. The film recording method was in its early development stage and the sound quality was relatively poor, but it had many inherent advantages which ultimately led to its universal acceptance. The first commercially successful photographic sound recording system used a variable intensity modulator known as the Aeo-light. This was later replaced by the ERPI light valve which is still in use today. The optical system used with the light valve is shown, and certain photographic requirements for linear recording are discussed. The variable area recording system is the outgrowth of the Duddell oscillograph. The oil damped galvanometer was replaced by a magnetic-type optical modulator, and a more effective optical system was developed. Several sound tracks produced by this unit are shown. Noise reduction methods required by both the variable area and variable density recording systems are described. An unusual type of sibilant distortion caused considerable difficulty in the early variable area sound tracks. The nature of this distortion and the means of correcting it are given. Although magnetic recording is one of the oldest methods known, it came into its own during World War II. Its potential importance to the motion-picture industry was quickly recognized."
"The past decade has seen great advances in techniques and in applications of magnetic recording until, at present, many of the empirical methods have been forced to their limit. Important future developments depend on a better understanding of fundamental processes which, as yet, have hardly been explored. This paper discusses some of the explanations and theories that are of current interest with regards to the playback process, the recording process, the record medium, ac bias, and noise. Limitations of the theories and avenues for further exploration are suggested."
"Since 1876 electroacoustic measuring equipment and techniques for its use have advanced from a primitive state to an advanced engineering science. This paper discusses sound-level measurements and primary techniques for the calibration of microphones. It covers systems and techniques for the measurement of the steady-state and transient response of amplifiers, microphones and loudspeakers. Means for shock-wave calibration of microphones and for measurement of nonlinear distortion and complex waveforms are also described."
"Telephone, radio broadcasting, public-address and bandwidth conserving systems are discussed with particular attention being given to the latter two. The relation of certain properties of hearing (e.g., the Haas effect) to public address system design is reviewed along with several bandwidth conserving techniques including speech interpolation systems and vocoders."
"This paper reviews the history of stereophonic sound reproduction. It includes a comprehensive bibliography; the philosophical and psychological research on stereophony; methods used to make disc recordings and tape recordings on two channels; description of large auditorium motion picture systems for stereophonic effects; FM broadcasting of stereophonic programs on a multiplex basis and brief descriptions of pseudo-stereophonic reproduction systems for the home."
"Control engineering, erected on the foundations of feedback theory and linear system analysis, brings together the fundamental concepts of communication theory, network theory, nonlinear mechanics, optimization theory, and statistical design theory. These various elements are combined in the modern research on adaptive control systems-research which provides the basis from which control theory contributes to system engineering and to the understanding of the behavioral, social, and biological sciences."
"The past fifty years have seen the automatic control and electronic fields come close together and form an effective means for increasing man's productivity and his ability to control energy and materials. By extending automatic control concepts to new processes, by developing more flexible controls capable of changing their characteristics to optimize performance of the process being controlled, and by increasing the capability of the sensing means in difficult environments, man will be able to make even more effective his ability to control automatically in the years ahead. Electronics is increasingly able to provide physical means for providing the realization of automatic control principles and concepts. Increasing effort to achieve reliable electronic automatic control means must be continued in the years ahead to make possible the realization of the promised gains indicated by the automatic control theory. In addition, more use should be made of standardized design ranges of electrical and mechanical features so that all automatic control equipment can be made in less time and at a lower relative cost. The future appears bright for expanded use of automatic control and electronics as we look ahead for the next fifty years of the IRE."
"A brief résumé of important scientific discoveries leading to radio broadcasting is given. There follows a discussion of the most important types of home broadcast radio-receiving circuits which came into use after the advent of entertainment broadcasting. These circuits include crystal receivers, regenerative receivers, neutrodynes and superheterodynes. Attention is also given to the development of automatic volume control, automobile radios and FM receivers. An effort has been made to present the developments chronologically with attention primarily being given to the work of leading pioneers. In the final part of the paper some of the more important innovations in the radio-receiving art are mentioned and, in some cases, briefly discussed."
"The paper traces the development of television receiving, starting with a description of the earliest demonstrations of mechanical television. While the major emphasis is on reception, enough discussion of television system standards is included to support the development of the receiver story. The progression of events which led from the early mechanical systems, through the various phases of electronic television using cathode-ray picture tubes, up to the modem compatible color television receivers, is covered in some detail. The development of circuitry for IF, VF, and deflection is covered. A complete bibliography, containing some of the great historic as well as the most recent contributions, is included."
"The receiving electron tube has been primarily responsible for the modem superheterodyne, with its high sensitivity, high selectivity, automatic gain control, and ease of tuning. In examining the history, one finds an early period of triodes and diodes (1907 to 1927), a second period (1927 to 1936) of indirectly heated cathodes and multigrid tubes, and a third period (1936 to 1960) of close-spaced tubes and VHF operation. The most significant tube concepts are the triode, the multigrid tube, and the indirectly heated cathode, all of which started in the first period. The second and third periods were marked by tremendous advances in the technology of production, and in extensive application of the early inventions to new receiver designs. At present, solid-state devices are gradually supplanting vacuum tubes in some receiver applications, and this trend is expected to continue."
"Interesting early experiments and significant technical milestones are described in radiotelephony preceding the birth of the broadcasting industry at KDKA in 1920. The technical problems and difficulties which faced the burgeoning early growth and subsequent development are outlined and the most significant advances in the technology are outlined as they occurred in both AM and FM broadcasting. The descriptions are accompanied by comments concerning the past, present and possible future status and trends in both services and the manner in which they may be influenced by factors which are unique to each."
"The story of television broadcasting may be divided into three periods of time, i.e., the historical period-to about 1930, the developmental period-to the end of the Second World War, and the commercial period. One of the first public demonstrations was given by C. Francis Jenkins in Washington, D.C. in 1925. During the 1930's the mechanical scanning equipment was replaced with all electronic equipment. The first \"network\" or long-distance pickup was the 1940 Republican National Convention in Philadelphia which was broadcast by the NBC station in New York and the General Electric station in Schenectady. Commercial television was authorized by the Federal Communications Commission, effective July 1, 1941; however it was not until shortly after the end of the Second World War when the electronics industry returned to peace-time conditions that the public became aware of the magic of television in the home. In a relatively short period of time the television broadcasting industry developed from a few stations with very limited programming to a national industry with more than 600 television stations and over 50,000,000 receivers in use by the public. The impact of television has affected the lives of nearly every citizen of this country and its effects are being felt in most of the other countries of the world."
"Any sound plan for frequency allocations for broadcasting must be based on engineering considerations. A broadcasting system_AM, FM or television-may be divided into its component elements, the characteristics of these elements pertinent to allocations may be analyzed, and a technically consistent allocation plan can be developed. The major components are the eye of the television viewer or the ear of the radio listener, the receiving installation, the existing electrical noise, the physical facts of wave propagation, and the transmitting installation. Historically, allocation plans were not developed solely through such engineering studies. AM broadcasting grew in a chaotic manner, and early attempts at governmental regulation were declared illegal by the courts. Remedial legislation resulted in the establishment of the Federal Radio Commission and its successor, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) with legally delegated regulatory responsibilities and authority. Television and FM broadcasting, which came later, were always subject to governmental regulation. Television profited greatly from the high degree of cooperation at the engineering level which has existed between the FCC and the television industry. The practical administration of broadcast allocations depends upon other factors as well as engineering considerations. In analyzing the critical needs of the future, some of these non-engineering factors assume major importance."
"The basic concepts for television origination equipment are determined by operational requirements, which have remained relatively constant throughout the history of television broadcasting. In brief, television cameras and related studio equipment are designed to permit the assembly of a smooth flow of picture and audio signals from multiple sources, including both \"live\" scenes and prerecorded material. The photography of kinescope images on motion-picture film was an early approach to practical television recording which still offers enough advantages that major engineering efforts continue to be placed on the development of improved film recording equipment. A great deal of the current television recording activity, however, involves the use of magnetic tape. The most common types of television tape recorders employ 2-in. wide magnetic tape, on which picture information is recorded by rotating video heads which produce tracks extending across the width of the tape. Four separate heads are mounted on the rotating headwheel, but switching circuits are employed to deliver a single continuous signal during the playback process. Through the use of FM techniques and precise servomechanisms, it is possible to accomplish television tape recording with extremely high picture quality."
"New developments in broadcasting in the past 20 years are treated from the general allocations development viewpoints including regulatory aspects and the evolution in the broadcast standard, frequency modulation, and television station industry. The prospects for compatible single sideband modulation techniques in standard broadcasting, developments in FM stereo regulations and experimental techniques in the color television field are explored. Brief treatment is accorded the horizon subject of extra terrestrial satellite relay usage in broadcasting as well as the currently developed backbone of international broadcasting. References are included to fundamental explorations of several government-industry engineering committees including the Television Allocations Study Organization, technical study papers issued under the auspices of the Chief Engineer of the Federal Communications Commission, and studies carried on by broadcasters, network organizations, and manufacturers."
"After a brief survey of the state of circuit theory before World War I, the various directions of its development in the last 50 years are discussed, mainly in relation with applications to communication engineering. The early period of network design (1920-1925) was followed by the beginning of synthesis (1926-1935). The next steps were the development of feedback amplifier theory and insertion loss filter theory. The numerous new directions of research started during and after the second war are briefly mentioned. Finally recent progress is reported in formal realizability theory and in topological synthesis. A last section deals with nonlinear and linear variable circuits."
"The past two decades have witnessed profound changes in the composition, functions and the level of complexity of electrical as well as electronic systems which are employed in modem technology. As a result, classical RLC network theory, which was the mainstay of electrical engineering at a time when RLC networks were the bread and butter of the electrical engineer, has been and is being increasingly relegated to the status of a specialized branch of a much broader discipline-system theory-which is concerned with systems of all types regardless of their physical identity and purpose. This paper presents a brief survey of the evolution of system theory, together with an exposition of some of its main concepts, techniques and problems. The discussion is centered on the notion of state and emphasizes the role played by state-space techniques. The paper concludes with a brief statement of some of the key problems of system theory."
"This paper discusses various types of realizability problems in electric circuit theory, with particular attention to the role of necessary and sufficient conditions. The first example is the general realization of an arbitrary driving-point impedance function discovered by Brune, together with his introduction of the use of the positive real function. Next comes the remarkable synthesis of the same problem by Bott and Duffln, with their complete elimination of all transformers. A brief survey is then given of subsequent efforts to simplify the original networks prescribed by Bott and Duffin, together with various alternative conditions which are sufficient but not necessary. All of this is then illustrated by application to the relatively simple case of the biquadratic impedance function. The other chief example discussed is the current work on the realization of a given real matrix as the open-circuit impedance matrix, or closed-circuit admittance matrix, of a network composed entirely of ordinary resistors. Particular attention is given to the work of Cederbaum in this field. It would seem that, although complete necessary and sufficient conditions have not yet been obtained, this problem is almost at the point of being solved."
"In order to place the teaching of circuit theory in proper perspective, it is necessary first to formulate rather explicitly the principles and the philosophy of educational methods and objectives in an engineering curriculum. Subject content and subject order, as well as difficulties experienced because of existing academic policies, provide the central theme which is concerned with developments throughout the past 35 years in which circuit theory experienced its major growth."
"Antennas and transmission lines used in long-distance point-to-point radio communication are described. Long wavelengths (3000 to 23,000 meters) were used exclusively in the early days of transoceanic communication, and are still used for specific services. The design parameters of long-wave transmitting antennas are briefly mentioned. This is followed by a description of some of the directive antennas used for reception of long waves to reduce the effects of atmospherics and interference. The discovery in 1924 that portions of the short-wave spectrum (10 to 100 meters) could be used for long-distance transmission during daylight as well as at night, completely revolutionized longdistance radio communication. The development of arrays and long wire types of antennas for short-wave transmission and reception are described. The radiation of undesired sidelobes from long wire types of antennas is discussed and means which have been used to reduce these side lobes are described. The parameters which enter into the design of open-wire and coaxial transmission lines are briefly presented. Finally, trends which may tend to reduce the extreme congestion of the short-wave spectrum are mentioned."
"This paper reviews the origin and evolution of some of the more important techniques and instrumentalities of radio receiver development. A completely comprehensive story would require many more pages than are available in this anniversary issue. Highlights of development between the early era of the magnetic detector, or coherer, and the present time are discussed."
"During the 50-year history of the Institute of Radio Engineers the respective technologies of wire and submarine cable telegraphy and telephony, on the one hand, and mobile and point-to-point radio, broadcasting, and television, on the other, have been commingled in an ever increasing degree. Initial contributions leading to the mutuality of the wire and radio branches of applied science came from pioneers who worked in both media. Subsequent discoveries were eagerly put to work in both, prompted by users' requirements for direct, end-to-end service. Opportunities for interchange of general communication engineering ideas and experience through the IRE were purposely fostered by its directorate from 1912 to 1962. An impressive list of exchanged benefits is attributable in part to the Institute's hospitable climate. An Appendix lists sources of information on the present status of wire communication, technical and organizational."
"This paper covers briefly the early radio telephone experiments with efforts by the various inventors to modulate spark, arc and alternator outputs with microphones of various kinds, and also with variable reactances controlled by voice signals. The development of the high-vacuum triode provided a basis for a completely new art, both in sustained wave generation, and in modulation. A few of the methods of modulation by the triode, as well as the development of the first practical radio telephone which led the way to early broadcast transmitters, are outlined. The discovery of sidebands with its early influence on transmitter circuits, which led to channel spacing, and also to single sideband use for ether space conservation, is mentioned. The early fumbling with frequency modulation and then the eventual discovery of how it could be used to advantage is outlined. Pulse-modulation systems, which have not yet reached their full development, are covered briefly. Nothing is given about modulation methods for the infrared optical waves for which methods of generation have lately been discovered, but for which modulation methods have not yet been published."
"The evolution of the type, form and scope of radio transmitters is traceable from the nascent technology of not yet a century ago to today's elaborately sophisticated systems, among which are included radar, multichannel microwave, aircraft and marine communications and navigation and commercial broadcast. Apparatus and techniques progressed from the early spark and arc transmitters to alternators of various designs and powers, through the era of the first vacuum-tube transmitters to the later highly efficient vacuum-tube types. More recently, transmitter design has utilized high-power tetrode and klystron amplifiers. Although code signaling was the first practical method of communicating intelligence, interest in voice transmission resulted in concurrent efforts to adapt the then existing transmitters to this purpose. The discovery of ionospheric phenomena permitted advances into areas of transmitter development previously considered impractical for other than short-distance communications. Regulations governing transmitter power, frequency and use were established by government agency as the need became apparent. The regulations have been adjusted to keep pace with the increase in power capabilities and the use of the frequency spectrum as the trend continues toward higher-power transmitters."
"An historical summary of the development of microwave communications is presented, together with an examination of the present state-of-the-art. The current research and development efforts are used to forecast the extension of the present applications and techniques into the future."
"This paper reviews the history of the component parts field by equating the effects of the invention of active components to the resulting regenerative expans on of requirements for types and capabilities of components needed to make possible the development of new systems equipment to meet the demands of applications and, in turn, generate new applications for other system equipment."
"A survey is made of the evolutionary steps leading to the present state of the resistor field. The survey is confined to the resistance element which is the basic and most important factor in all resistors. The development is traced as nearly as possible from the origins of resistors, and proceeds from wire to composition, deposited carbon and films of metal and their compounds. Some future trends are indicated."
"A review of the history and bibliography of the capacitor art of the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, prior to the founding of the IRE in 1912, compared to the explosive developments of the fifty years to 1962, shows the evolutionary nature of the advances in capacitor engineering. The dependence and parallelism of capacitor engineering with the mainstream of development in the basic sciences are clear and are further indicated for the future."
"The phenomenon of piezoelectricity, discovered in 1880, is the basis of a number of devices which are essential to the art and practice of electrical communication. The discovery of the phenomenon, the development of the quartz resonator, and its application as a frequency-stabilizing element in oscillator and filter circuits are described. Some of the technical problems encountered in the design and fabrication of quartz-crystal units are discussed. Using quartz crystal units for short-term stability and atomic resonators for long-term stability, frequency standards which are reliable and reproducible to 1×10-11 are now available."
"Relays and switches are among the most important components in the general area of electromechanical devices. Both of these have been in use for many years and continue, in modem form, to be essential elements in many modem switching applications including electronic systems. Early forms of relays were simple and controlled a single contact. Telephony created the need for more complex forms of relays and switches early in its history, and has continued ever since to require advances. Switching functions such as counting, registration, translation, etc., are accomplished by relays and switches. The most difficult and complex switching functions arise from centralized or common control types of automatic control systems including telephone central offices and computers. These are often referred to as the \"brains\" of the system. Modem trends in relays and switches are in miniaturization, hermetic sealing, improved reliability in the presence of shock and vibration and in higher operating speeds. Glass-enclosed contacts of the \"dry reed\" and mercury types have had an important part in achieving better performance. Another important trend is for them to become competitive, compatible and combinational with solidstate switching devices and systems as illustrated by the ferreed. Research is continuing actively with miniaturized relays, piezoelectric relays, glass-enclosed contact relays, higher-speed relays, transistor-operated relays and combinational devices such as the ferreed. One form of ferreed will operate from a 5 μsec pulse and remain operated until released by a similar pulse."
"Transformers, inductors and filters have continually played important roles throughout the field of electronics. Relatively crude electromagnetic devices were employed in early telephone and radio communication systems and today their vastly improved descendants are still found in most electronic systems. The sizes of electronic power transformers have been reduced through the development of new core materials and suitable hightemperature insulating materials. Design methods for audio and video transformers have been evolved which, in combination with improved core materials, made it possible to provide broad-band transformers having low distortion effects. Pulse transformers were developed for radar systems and made practical the hydrogen thyratron type pulse modulator. The performance characteristics of intermediate-frequency and radio-frequency transformers have been improved and their sizes reduced through the development of pressed-powdered iron and ferrite core materials. The linearity and stability of iron-cored inductors for filters have been improved through core materials development. Nonlinear inductors were made more nonlinear through the development of rectangular hysteresis loop magnetic alloys and ferrites, providing many new types of electromagnetic devices for electronic circuitry. Advances in electronics have made obsolete some applications of transformers and inductors but also have opened up other opportunities for inductive devices of novel or new characteristics."
"In the two decades since the concept of ceramic based \"printed circuits\" was first suggested for an Army Ordnance application, substantial changes have taken place in the techniques of electronic circuit construction in the United States. Today, such ceramic circuits, in simple and complex networks, are complemented by printed wiring assemblies in several variations. Both technologies, now well established and in mass use on production lines, represent the current plateaus in miniature circuit construction for general commercial and military usage. Other construction philosophies and technologies are now shaping in the country's industrial and military laboratories, all aimed at new orders of size reduction of electronic equipments. In the several microelectronic techniques under development, the elemental electronic part appears destined to lose its logistic identity completely, and yield its classical position as a building block to black boxes called \"circuit functions.\" The paper provides a summary review of the evolution of current ceramic printed circuits and printed wiring practices and, in the light of today's microelectronic activities, frames the trend in equipment design in the years ahead."
"Electronic Materials\" is taken here to include dielectric materials with plastics and gases; magnetic materials, including permanent magnet materials, soft magnetic materials, magnetic powders, magnetic ceramics; resistive materials; ferroelectric materials; wire insulation; insulators; semiconductor materials; and conductors. In a general statement, as given here, fine distinctions have been avoided, and there is necessarily some overlap in these categories."
"Increasingly complex electronic systems are creating the need for greater numbers of components, with consequent serious problems of systems reliability and maintenance. Rockets, satellites and space vehicles demand small, lightweight, highly reliable electronic equipment. It is noted that miniaturized assemblies, integrated circuits, and functional solid-state devices provide solutions to these critical demands. Opinions are offered as to the time scale of availability of these new approaches. However, a continuing need for conventional parts in certain applications is noted, and possible trends in further development of several kinds are discussed. To derive maximum benefits inherent in the application of truly functional devices, the necessity of changes in points of view and design philosophies of both systems and device engineers is indicated. Certain factors other than those of a technical nature are considered which may have an important influence on the rate of transition from classical components to functional entities. Finally it is opined that the device engineer of the future should have a breadth and depth of intellectual disciplines which not only allows him to appreciate systems objectives, but also enables him to implement these objectives by functional devices through the media of basic properties of substances."
"Education in electrical engineering has changed greatly since World War II and continues to change. There is greater orientation towards science and much more emphasis on graduate work, while student interest in electrical power as a field of specialization has virtually disappeared. Student participation in research conducted at a highly sophisticated level has become a major element in the training at the Ph. D. level, and the Ph. D. degree has come to symbolize the electrical engineer with superior technical training. Faculty members in electrical engineering departments have available rewarding and stimulating opportunities such as never before existed. Generous research support is available, there are numerous opportunities for consulting, and the services of professors are in demand for government advisory committees, membership on boards of directors, etc. Educational institutions with strong graduate programs in electrical engineering are becoming centers for the development of growth industries. They are therefore important economic influences in the industrial world. In summary, our universities today are turning out young electrical engineers far better equipped to meet the new challenges that are ahead of them than they did in the period before World War II. Concurrently the importance in today's world of the electrical engineering departments and faculties of our better schools is high, and is growing steadily."
"Maxwell started the electrical field on the mathematical analysis path, and the field will continue to successfully exploit the mathematical method. It can be expected that engineering will more completely take over the teaching of its own basic principles, as engineering becomes more accurately described as applied science. Future progress in electrical education will be built about mathematics, and especially employ systems analysis and materials science. Without further advance in his science base, the engineer may be in danger of becoming an order-taking technician. Such progress in fundamental will require the elimination of many present-day barriers between areas of specialization."
"Graduate study in electrical engineering developed significantly after World War I when radio engineering came of age. The many new scientific discoveries preceding World War II and exploited technologically during and following that war lent tremendous impetus to the further growth of graduate study, particularly towards the doctor's degree. The keen competition for the outstanding students between industrial research laboratories and the faculties of the leading institutions has retarded the growth of the genuine full-time student body and has enormously accelerated the part-time enrollment for graduate degrees with the result that the numbers of degrees awarded have increased at a lesser rate. This has accentuated evaluative studies of graduate education and drawn the attention to national needs; namely, large-scale support of a sufficient number of outstanding graduate study and research centers with adequate support for genuine full-time graduate students in order to supply faculty needs as well as the needs of industry in this highly technological society."
"In spite of being the oldest in the family of electron tubes, the space-charge control tube or conventional tube continues to experience continual development and improvement. Recent developments include extensions of power-frequency limits, improvements in emission, and extensive improvements of structure. Of particular novelty are a high gm tube using secondary emission multiplication and a distributed-amplifier type tube."
"The paper is an historical review of the development of gas discharge tubes. The material is divided into five classifications based on discharge types, namely: 1) Ionization tubes, 2) Cold-cathode discharge tubes, 3) Hot-cathode arc discharge tubes, 4) Liquid metal arc tubes, and 5) Plasma tubes."
"Many ideas important to microwave tubes, including the interaction of electrons with waves, occurred very early. An orderly understanding came much later. The RF diode equation (1933-1944) gave quantitative results concerning microwave tubes rather than insight. The klystron and the concept of velocity modulation and phase focusing (1938-1939) led to a clear picture of important phenomena as well as to powerful microwave devices. Insight and performance were extended by the traveling-wave tube and the wave analysis of its behavior (1946-1947). This led to explorations in terms of the behavior of coupled circuits (1951, 1954) and negative-energy waves (1951). Backward-wave oscillators provided further understanding and a new tool (1952-1953). This background of understanding which grew up concerning microwave tubes led to analysis of and improvement in noise behavior (1950-1959). Finally, the invention of the parametric amplifier led to very-low-noise microwave tubes (1959-1961). Crossed-field tubes have always been highly effective but difficult to analyze and design. Nonetheless, useful high-power amplifiers and oscillators have been built."
"The paper gives a brief description of the present state of the European microwave tube art. Developments on lines which differ from those common in the U.S.A. are stressed. After a few specialized tube types have been described, current research is surveyed, covering devices using electron beams in high vacuum, electron beam parametric amplifiers and microwave amplification in plasmas. Purely theoretical material has been omitted except where it is vital to the understanding of any device."
"The development of practical beam-deflection and photo devices coincides with the lifetime of the Institute of Radio Engineers. The intimate association of these two electronic elements is illustrated by the development of the television camera tube. In more detail, both the historical development and the more significant recent advances are described for beam-deflection devices such as the cathode-ray oscillograph, storage tubes, and television display tubes. Similarly, advances are indicated in the field of photo devices such as photoemissive, photoconductive, and photovoltaic cells; multiplier photo-tubes; image tubes; and light amplifiers."
"The semiconductor art began early in the nineteenth century. Gradual advances in materials, techniques, and understanding followed. The decisive event in creation of the modern semiconductor device field was the invention of the transistor in December, 1947 by Bardeen and Brattain. Understanding of minority carrier injection, invention of the junction diode and transistor, and major advances in materials and techniques then came in rapid sequence. In the last decade the semiconductor devices have grown prodigiously in variety and complexity and in speed, power, and reliability. Further growth will be shaped by the semiconductor materials and the constraints which they impose on speed, power, and impedance. The transistor and allied single-crystal p-n junction devices will probably be the key tools of electronic circuitry for many years."
"The solid-state properties of matter are of interest not only to the research scientist but also to the engineer who has translated the findings of basic research into endeavors of great technological significance. The research in ferromagnetism has led to the magnetic amplifier, which for certain applications is superior to amplifiers using vacuum tubes and to the development of new materials such as ferrites, which are now finding use at radio frequencies in pulse transformers, radio frequency inductors, antenna rods, magnetic core delay lines, computer elements, and magnetic recording media. Ferrites and antiferromagnetic materials are now also widely used at microwave frequencies and millimeter wavelengths as nonreciprocal phase shifters, load isolators, filters, ferrite switches, ferrod radiators, modulators and power limiters. Such phenomena as piezoelectricity, ferroelectricity and magnetostriction have resulted in the use of ultrasonic waves for the study of phononelectron and phonon-spin interactions as well for such practical devices as the detection of imperfections and faults in solids, electromechanical transducers, resonators, filters, delay lines, computer memories, ultrasonic soldering, cleaning, drilling and cutting, and strain and acceleration gauges. Dielectric materials have found applications as prisms, polarizers, restrahlen plates and more recently in dielectric wave guides and fiber optics."
"Two basic disciplines underlying the design and development of solid-state electronic devices are: 1) the design and analysis of the device from the electron physics standpoint, and 2) the materials technology by which suitable structures in solids are prepared to fulfill the conditions specified in the device design. This article considers the second discipline, and reviews the basic steps of purification of materials, crystal growth, and processes such as diffusion and alloying for fabricating structures. Germanium, silicon, and compound semiconductors are discussed. An historical review is given, and directions of future developments are indicated."
"The development of digital computing machines is described and illustrated, from the mechanical devices of the seventeenth century to the electronic systems of today, in three chronological sets of sketches. Only a few typical ones of the modem systems are treated and not all early machines are discussed. A bibliography is appended."
"Digital computers are opening exciting new possibilities for progress in language translation, information retrieval, psychological modeling, problem solving and theorem proving. These have resulted not because of the microsecond arithmetic speed but because of the ability to manipulate symbols: to read, write, store, compare, and replace symbols and to follow different courses of action according to differences between symbols. Thus, language in a general sense is a common aspect of these new applications. Programmers have been extending the usefulness of computers through the evolutionary development of most artfully conceived languages. Recently, mathematicians and logicians have been proving theorems about formal languages, while linguists have been discovering laws that humans instinctively observe whenever they use natural language. Fruitful cross pollination among such endeavors now promises greatly accelerated progress in determining whether symbol manipulation is for information processing applications what numerical analysis is for arithmetic applications. This paper first reviews the evolution of programming languages from the early days when all programming was done in machine languages, through symbolic coding systems, interpreters, assemblers, generators, and compilers, to the recently developed list processing languages. Then the applications of these languages to game playing, problem solving, theorem proving, and behavior and biological modeling have been described briefly. Finally, in anticipation of extending the capability of computers to accept, use and generate natural languages, the paper concludes with an introduction to some of the contemporary work on formal language theory, including a discussion of six families of abstract languages and their practical implementation."
"Recent developments in high-speed switching elements are outlined to indicate the trend of recent work and thoughts on physical implementation of high-speed digital data processing systems. Four outstanding switching elements, thin film cryotron, high-speed transistor, microwave parametric phase-locked oscillator, and tunnel diode, as well as some related circuit and fabrication techniques, are briefly described and commented on. The transistor remains as the predominant switching element for these systems, largely because of the vast experience with it. The other technologies are presenting an ever increasing challenge to the transistor in this area."
"New system concepts are discussed within the framework of market requirements and the design goals which are to meet them. These goals are: 1) Programming and compiling aids for increased operating efficiency and flexibility, 2) Higher machine speeds for increased throughput and reduced job cost, 3) Multiprogramming (time sharing) and multiprocessing (load sharing) for greater concurrent utilization of system hardware, 4) System exchanges for greater flexibility in system hardware complement and allocation."
"In a sense, many present-day analog computers exist in a gap left by the cost-speed characteristics of available digital computers. But even as digital computers improve, the all-parallel \"live mathematical model\" afforded by analog-type simulation remains indispensable to the system designer. As a result, new hybrid computing elements and systems combine analog and digital features, and analog computers are becoming faster. The techniques discussed include combination of conventional analog and digital computers, digital programming and checkout of analog computers, operational digital computing elements, new high-speed analog computers with memory and digital switching, true hybrid computing elements, and some hybrid computer systems."
"One key to expanding the applications potential for information processing systems is the economic availability of online memory of extremely large capacity to permit the automatic servicing of record files. Further, mounting emphasis on \"management\" decision making will accelerate the emergence of true filecentered systems. This paper reviews the evolution and future trends in the implicit \"mass storage.\" The term mass storage indicates a unit capacity ranging upward from one million characters. Such memory cannot currently be realized or projected with solid-state devices (e.g., fabricated matrices of discrete, bit elements such as core arrays). Thus, continuous (and generally interchangeable) surfaces with associated coupling transducers are exploited. The access time variability to memory locations, arising from the requisite mechanical motion, makes the structuring and organization of mass memory (software) of major significance to effective systems integration. Magnetic recording, with its unlimited surface reusability, is the firmly entrenched mass storage technology. The last decade has seen almost two orders of magnitude improvement in storage density, with in excess of 25,000 bits/sq in already used in announced products. The major technical innovation to date has been in the air-floated head which, by permitting both high density and high surface speed, brought about the introduction of mass random access memory (disk array-1956). Areas covered include systems perspectives and memory organization, memory modularity and mass storage structure, reliability and economic considerations, magnetic recording technology, and nonmagnetic media (including image storage)."
"Attempts to mechanize character reading and speech recognition have greatly accelerated in the past decade. This increased interest was prompted by the promise of computer inputs more flexible in format than punched cards or magnetic tape. Research has shown that automatic sensing can be done reliably if the task is suitably delimited. Cleverly designed marks on standard forms can be both machine and man readable. A single type font or a few fixed ones are tractable if the print quality is controlled. Handprinting can be handled for careful writers, as can meticulous handwriting. Isolated spoken words taken from a small number of talkers and a limited vocabulary can be automatically recognized. Typical error rates for these machine-sensings run between 0.5 and 25 per cent. These results imply that reading unrestricted typestyles, handwritten scrawl, or recognizing conversational speech is beyond the reach of present methods. From the engineering viewpoint, questions of values enter. Might it not be wiser to punch cards or tape while making copy rather than depend upon complex character recognition hardware? Is it useful to have voice input to a computer when a finger and typewriter are available? Answers to such questions will depend upon the specific application. Certainly, the utility of automatic sensing will depend upon what is to be done with the material after it enters the computer as well as the internal organization of the machine itself."
"Challenged by larger and more complex tasks, the engineering manager must place greater emphasis on the motivation and intellectual development of his people if he is to obtain the maximum creative effort from individual engineers. Management of the environment rather than the individual is suggested as the key to motivation-and to successful engineering management. Problems facing us in electronics will be easier to solve if managers build an environment characterized by sound organization, stimulating goals, economic rewards and, most important of all, freedom of initiative for the individual with maximum emphasis on self-direction and self-control."
"The pages of past issues of the PROCEEDINGS provide an interesting and accurate picture of how the electronics art and science has developed over the years. A few examples of early writings are given which reflect prior stages of the art, and some observations are made on the place of technical publishing in the electronics industry."
"Throughout his career, an engineer has a responsibility to communicate the results of his work to four major audiences: his management, his colleagues, students or trainees, and the lay public. He must, therefore, be proficient in various forms of oral and written communication, ranging from simple conversations to formal reports and articles. To transmit information effectively, an engineer must have a complete understanding of his audience, his subject and his language. The Professional Group on Engineering Writing and Speech sponsors publications, meetings and workshops to help IRE members meet this communication challenge successfully."
"The growth of the new science dealing with manmachine relationships is traced from the first organized efforts during World War II to the present. The current rapid growth is underlined by the organization of professional societies, the largest of which is the IRE Professional Group on Human Factors in Electronics. The discussion includes reference to the several government, university and industrial laboratories which have pioneered in this field."
"The man-machine concept as developed in this paper refers to a closed-loop control system comprising a machine and an actively participating human operator. The human component attributes are described with both general and specific engineering models. Particular emphasis is placed on the human adaptive characteristics which make for an unusual control system. Predictive behavior is discussed in terms of actual-physical and conceptual-effective display organizations resulting in compensatory, pursuit, and precognitive system organizations. Adaptive-operator transfer characteristics are presented, and applications of the adaptive model for random-input compensatory system design are listed. As an example, the model is used to estimate operator and system characteristics for a specific system, and the estirnates are compared with experimental results derived from associated empirical data. In a discussion of performance assessment, the basic attributes which any criterion for system performance should possess are reviewed, and a modus operandi for manual control system performance assessment is proposed."
"The inclusion of computer-based assemblies into man-machine complexes has enhanced the relevance of characteristics of the human link in the system. In particular, the virtues and limitations for transmission of information among the physical subsystems through a human channel is an important consideration in systems design. The current status of the supporting research for this area is briefly summarized. The related but more recondite area covering communication between man and computer is also important to the effectiveness of man-machine complexes. However, supporting research for this area is meager and most of it is contained in engineering psychology studies pertinent to the needs of specific systems. Research facilities more appropriate for the exploratory needs of both areas are becoming available and these presage the broad intensive programs needed to provide research guidance to the systems design of man-machine complexes."
"Industrial electronics is the phrase usually employed to cover the use of vacuum tubes in fields outside of communication. The term was originally applied to the Tungar Rectifier (about 1915) and the use of phototubes (about 1927). By 1930 Industrial Electronics became a growing business. However, its early growth was slow, because there was a general mistrust about the dependability of tubes. Wider use of thyratrons that could handle currents in amperes was an important contribution; the development of ignitron tubes, and the use of steel envelopes for them, were considerable factors; also, such new applications as high frequency for induction and dielectric heating helped in the advancement."
"During the past two decades significant improvements have been made in all types of electron tubes. Small tubes became still smaller, and the output of large tubes has been increased. Greater reliability has been achieved, and frequency limits have been extended upward. Hydrogen thyratrons have been developed, providing high power for pulse work. Ignitron ratings have been increased significantly. The problem of shutting off gas tubes by grid control has received attention and has led to two new types of tubes which at this time have, however, only limited output. To the list of photosensitive devices have been added the leadsulfide and similar cells, providing means of detecting infrared radiation of long wave length. A host of ingenious transducers has extended the use of electron tubes in the measurement and control field; smaller magnitudes of physical quantities, such as distance, pressure and magnetic field intensity can be observed and recorded. On the other end of the scale, tubes have provided HF power for induction and dielectric heating. But by far the most outstanding development of the last 15 years has been in the field of solid state or semiconductor devices. Here the transistor, announced in 1948, occupies first place, and improvements in its characteristics are coming at a breath-taking pace. In 1957 the silicon-controlled rectifier, aptly called a solid-state thyratron, joined the march. These two devices are giving industrial electronics a tremendous new drive."
"It is stressed that the really important factor in com-munication systems is not their speed of operation, but their reliability. This has been true throughout history. The earliest known postal system was that of the Persian empire which was later taken over by the Greeks and then the Romans, being used by them in their occupation of Europe 2000 years ago. The system which they adopted will be described briefly; it remained substantially unchanged in Europe until the later part of the Middle Ages. Every effort was made to make such systems reliable; it was of no value to Caesar to send messages if he could not be sure they would reach their destination. These early systems were used by an aristocracy, and the most significant thing about modem telecommunication systems is their universal use by every man, woman and child. But their use is confined to areas of high literacy in the world, not so much because of wealth, but because of mental attitudes. The growth of modern postal services during the past 300 years is described and the effect of the coming of telephones and telegraphs commented upon"
"Early investigators in the field of communications first realized that the presence of unwanted random noise was an important factor following the discovery that the maximum gain of an amplifier was limited by the discrete nature of currents in electron tubes. Called shot effect, this was first explained by W. Schottky and later by many other investigators. Much research on this problem during the second and third decades of the twentieth century finally led to the rigorous formulation of the phenomenon by B. J. Thompson and others in 1940. Concurrently, the problem of spontaneous thermal noise effects in conductors was studied and formulated. By 1940, the situation was developed to an extent that the application of mathematical statistics to explain and solve broader noise problems in systems was inevitable. About this time, the basic contributions of N. Wiener led to an understanding of the optimum linear filtration of signals imbedded in random noise. His work influenced the entire course of development of theory on the optimization of filters designed to abstract a signal out of its noisy environment."
"During the last twenty years three theories dealing with the interaction of signals and noise in communication systems have come into being: detection theory; the statistical theory of filtering and prediction; and Shannon's information theory. They have developed rapidly and now play a key role in the communication engineer's understanding of his field. This paper presents a brief description of the central concepts of each of these theories, discusses their differences and common parts, and attempts to point out both their successes and shortcomings."
"The gradual development of quartz and atomic clocks has resulted in an improvement in the accuracy of frequency measurement by a factor of at least 104 in the past 30 years. The best quartz clocks drift upwards in frequency at an average rate of about 1 part in 109 per month and operate with a day to day stability of a few parts in 1011. A caesium standard based on the magnetic deflexion of an atomic beam has been in operation since 1955 and recent models of this type of standard enable frequency and time to be defined in terms of atomic constants with an accuracy of a few parts in 1011. It has revealed irregular and seasonal variations in the length of the day of about 1 msec. The techniques of optical pumping and detection, of the use of buffer gases, and of wall coatings which enable atoms to be reflected without undergoing transitions have made it possible to make working atomic standards which are already of great stability and may well be capable of still further improvement."
"As every branch of science develops, instrumentation especially adapted thereto develops with it. Electronics has been unusually fertile in spawning new ideas of all kinds, especially in measuring devices. This article discusses, in general, representative examples, as they relate to the needs that they satisfy or the novel concepts that they incorporate."
"Being a short chronicle of the advent of digital display in divers new electronic instruments, sundry remarks telling of the wonders they can do, together with a few words to the wise concerning pitfalls which may accompany their indiscriminate use."
"The almost phenomenal growth of the IRE Professional Group on Bio-Medical Electronics demonstrates the mutual interest that has been aroused both in engineering and in biology through new knowledge of living systems gained by instrumentation and technics recently available in this interzonal field. The engineer should develop a high-level respect for living systems at all stages of development, from that of unit cells to that of the amazing coordination of the living systems in the highly developed human being. An understanding of these systems will be advantageous to the physical sciences. Engineers, physicists and biologists have learned that by serving each other they can serve their respective goals best. The author believes that the science of electronics is the \"liaison officer\" responsible for converging the life sciences and the physical sciences into a single society. The organization of a society that would converge the man-made disciplines that cover the widely divergent fields reflected in the terms \"bio-medical electronics,\" \"biophysics\" and \"bio-medical engineering\" was not achieved until the science of electronics was put to work in the life sciences."
"Engineering training can profitably be applied to medical problems, both for better understanding of biological mechanisms and for development of more effective clinical methods. Also from clinical investigations, one can often derive concepts applicable to nonbiological systems. Examples of developments from clinically-oriented research are cited to show some of the possibilities and problems in this field."
"As quantitative bio-medical science develops, the amount of data to be handled will increase. Already the investigator frequently finds that the analysis of the data he has collected is beyond his computational ability and he is forced to turn to automatic data processing. The bio-medical investigator must have access to a variety of both analog and digital computing equipment if progress is to be made in biomedical research. Automatic data-processing techniques and equipment need to be introduced to the areas of public health and patient care. Projects dealing with medical records, medical literature retrieval, automatic chemical analysis, the recording of signs, symptoms, nurses' notes, etc., must all be tied together in regional medical computing systems as soon as possible. Particular attention must be given to this systematic collection and analysis of medical data before regional computing systems can help physicians with diagnosis and treatment."
"Current bio-medical research is not only more demanding instrumentally, but inquires into biological phenomena which are far more complex physically and chemically than twenty years ago. It results that the instrumental requirements for significant observations are often misinterpreted by biologists because of inadequate concepts of the systems involved. Consequently, the engineer himself must understand the bio-systems and the design of the experiment to assess the adequacy of instrumentation and interpretation of readings. So complex are most bio-systems that this, in general, requires the most advanced engineering concepts. Education in engineering with some physiology to the master's level may yield adequate technical results, but does not produce or earn a satisfactory scientific relationship. For this a much higher scientific competence is needed in engineering, in biological understanding and in the interdisciplinary area. The latter is the special application of engineering science to bio-systems: a body of knowledge still barely begun, but rapidly growing. Discussed herein is the nature of such engineering, biological and interdisciplinary training, which should lead to a satisfying career as an engineering scientist in bio-medical research. For good reasons, this is seen as a collaborative relation."
"This is a review of the history and technical progress of the microwave techniques beginning with fundamental research and continuing to present-day practical applications. Particular emphasis is placed on the evolution of techniques that are now of great practical importance. Included are the ordinary 2-wire transmission line and the useful tuning devices that it has provided and also the more recent waveguide techniques which have added not only a new medium of transmission but new antennas for radiating and receiving electromagnetic waves, and a new type of circuitry for dealing with microwaves. Reflecting discontinuities, sometimes conductive and sometimes reactive, when judiciously located inside a waveguide, may perform numerous useful functions such as matching transformers, frequency filters and special networks that very knowingly allow wave power to pass in one direction and not in the reverse. The present paper is a greatly condensed portion of certain chapters of a new book entitled \"Forty Years of Radio Research.\" The latter tells of the author's personal experiences, not only in connection with microwaves, but in connection with the development of much of the rest of the radio spectrum as well."
"There are presented briefly the measurement techniques that are most closely associated with microwaves (the frequency range of 0.3 to 300 Gc or the wavelength range of 1 meter to 1 mm). After a logical classification of such measurements in confined space (such as waveguides) the subject is introduced by a review of the principles peculiar to microwaves. Typical of this frequency range is the standing-wave technique and the reflection chart, utilized for evaluating and presenting the \"normalized\" value of any impedance relative to the wave impedance in a waveguide. More conventional methods are employed for evaluating transmission properties (attenuation and phase shift) by comparison with primary or secondary standards. Various special methods are discussed, including some of those most in need of further development in the future."
"The future of microwave communications is foreseen by noting the status of advanced research and then deducing its logical impact on future systems. The trend toward higher frequencies is expected to result in millimeter waveguide systems, and perhaps in communication using visible radiation, with an order of magnitude more channel capacity than the largest existing commercial systems. Satellite radio communications are expected to provide versatile broad-band international communications in an era when tying together the world's major population centers is of first importance. Point-to-point radio-relay systems are expected to provide the largest volume of domestic long-distance circuits, with explosive growth in the near future. New solid-state devices have appeared and should lead to systems with lower power consumption, longer component life, and eventually lower operating cost."
"The basic problems encountered in both classical and quantum electronics when attempting to produce coherent radiation in the microwave-infrared gap region extending from roughly 100- to 1000-microns wavelength are reviewed. Brief historical accounts are given of past work leading up to the submillimeter wave frontier. Some selected examples of current work are described to indicate the direction research in this area is taking. While it is the conclusion that a real breakthrough in the microwave infrared problem is not imminent, it is felt that the new background knowledge and the increased applied physics experience now acquired by the ultramicrowave engineer will hasten the day when a solution to the problem will be obtained."
"The interaction between microwaves and matter is illustrated by two classes of phenomenon: those in which as a result of the interaction the microwave field loses energy, and those in which it gains energy. Among the first class, there are two ways of marking the interaction: one is by detecting the radiation, the other is by detecting the matter. The first way is explained by the technique of microwave spectroscopy, electron spin resonance spectroscopy, and optical pumping. The second way is explained by the technique of molecular beams. Then the second class is introduced by the ammonia maser. Next it is shown how the maser principle led to the solid-state maser amplifier, and how it was extended into the infrared and optical region to bring about the laser. The current state-of-the-art is illustrated by the CW gas laser and the atomic hydrogen maser. Throughout these explanations the methods by which the resolution is increased is examined."
"Five basic ideas are identified, the combination of which consitutes radar. A clear distinction is then made between this combination of ideas, the contemporary technology from which it grew, and the contemporary scientific knowledge on which it was based. The mainstream of the development of radar is traced in a sequence of related events from 1922 to 1941. The technical problems encountered and the solutions employed in the first radar development are outlined in some detail. Two sidestreams of radar development are identified. The relationships among the three streams are discussed."
"The ways in which government-sponsored research and development and procurement have influenced electronics in the U.S.A. are discussed. It is concluded that missiles and space have moved to first place in impact on technical advance, industrial organization, and industry-government relations. Major changes have taken place, as a result of these programs, on both technical and administrative fronts, with many unsolved problems remaining in adjusting to the coming expanding missile and space programs."
"Military progress in communications in the United States really started back in 1860, and both before and since the birth of the IRE, it has been inextricably a part of the development of the communications industry, national communications policy, the IRE and scientific research and development in this art. The U. S. Navy played a particularly important part in the development of maritime and coastal radio systems and in the development of early radio wireless policy. In both major wars and increasing rapidly since World War II, the requirements of the military services for communications to keep pace with successive revolutions in speed, scope, range and nuclear power have increased exponentially, and beyond the capabilities of conventional or commercial systems. The vital significance of adequate communications and the part they play in the success of military operations and weapons systems has been consistently undervalued in the past. The cost of undervaluation and unreadiness in communications has been mounting rapidly in step with orders of magnitude increases in nuclear power and speed of delivery."
"In less than half a decade astronautics has developed from crude satellites to systems of unbelievable sophistication. Probes to Mars and Venus and a manned expedition to the moon are well into the planning and design stage. Weather and communication satellites as well as military monitoring satellites will soon be fully operational; navigation satellites are at this stage already, as are manned earth satellites. Elaborate lunar probes and complex astronomical satellites are just around the corner. However, practically all of the scientific achievements so far have been in the field of geophysics. Although some areas still remain to be investigated, many fundamental results have been gathered about the earth and its environment; briefly discussed here are findings about the figure of the earth, the density, temperature and constitution of the upper atmosphere, the nature of the radiation belt and auroral particles, and disturbances of the geomagnetic field."
"The chain reaction which takes place in a nuclear reactor is a regenerative process and can therefore be unstable, so the fission rate must be closely controlled in order that the nuclear reaction may proceed at a rate which is both useful and safe. Electronic circuits play a vital part in this, and their reliability must be exceedingly high, as many reactors are required to run for months without interruption and for years without an unscheduled shutdown. This paper considers in a very elementary way the dynamic behavior of a reactor and the circuit requirements associated with maintaining the power level constant. The additional problems associated with starting-up and the automatic shutting-down of a reactor are briefly surveyed and the use of automatic data-handling is considered. It is concluded that not all instrumentation and control problems presented by existing types of reactor have been satisfactorily solved and that more advanced reactors will present still more difficult problems."
"Nuclear radiation detectors are required in all the major fields of nuclear science and technology. They fall into two principal categories, single element detectors and imaging detectors. Single element detectors can be classified into four types, based upon their physical mode of operation. These are 1) Scintillation counters, 2) Gas ionization detectors, a) Ionization chambers, b) Proportional counters, c) Geiger-Mueller counters, 3) Semiconductor detectors, and 4) Chemical detectors. The limitations of these detectors are discussed in terms of sensitivity, energy resolution, speed, and ability to discriminate against background radiations. This gives some indication of the directions along which future developments must proceed. Imaging detectors include both area imaging, such as radioautography and scintillation counter scanning, and track imaging. The various techniques of track imaging from the Wilson cloud chamber and bubble chamber through scintillation track imaging and spark chambers are discussed."
"Radio and control engineers have contributed significantly to the understanding of nuclear reactor stability and transient response over the last 15 years. The successful application of frequency response and analog simulation techniques to reactor kinetics problems, together with experimental confirmation, has allowed increased dependence on inherent feedback mechanisms for self-regulation and self-protection. Digital techniques are becoming increasingly important in transient analysis and in automation of reactor systems. Modern large reactors employing boiling coolant and/or natural circulation require thorough study of reactivity feedback, hydrodynamic effects, and spatial stability of the power distribution to assure successful performance. Many important areas exist for future analytical and experimental research, including prompt feedback mechanisms during fast excursions, stochastic fluctuations, reactor noise, and nuclear-thermal-hydraulic interactions."
"The conception and evolution of the basic principles of thermionic energy conversion, the newest of the heat-to-electricity conversion methods, are described. The application of thermionic energy converters to its ideal heat source, the fission reactor, is discussed. It is believed that the state of the art is far enough advanced to make such a thermionic-reactor system practical within the next decade."
"A survey of the typical construction methods and style concepts that were used during the past seven decades provides an index of progress. From rather haphazard constructions that prevailed during the first quarter of this century, the industry soon reached a period when mass production of radio equipment was possible, whereupon the role of the product engineer, who takes the concepts and ideas of the scientists and devises suitable designs that are effective, reliable, and producible, and of the production engineer, who handles the problems attending the manufacturing of these designs, became important. In this review, the design techniques of several eras will be noted, particularly those that influenced the utility of the equipment. The many developments leading up to new processes, the ever-changing objectives, closer tolerances and increasing complexity taking place during the second quarter of the century, lead us into the space age with the emergence of the transistor, missiles, computers and automation. Printed-wiring and other assembly techniques are described, from the simple manual operations to the programmed automatic insertion of component parts. The roles of dip soldering and wirewrap, flexible cabling, and standardization are recounted. The progress of miniaturization is reviewed, from using conventional parts through various methods up to the micromodule and other arrangements with different form factors and integration methods. Finally, more sophisticated microminiaturization approaches-thin films, and fabrication of solid-state circuits by forming, \"growing,\" and electron-microscope techniques. Automatic testing, dynamics, cooling, and audio-visual aids are touched upon."
"This paper traces the development of interference regulations from the original requirement that waves be pure and sharp to the present complex formula for attenuation of spurious emissions. It also shows how different philosophies of regulation developed. In broadcasting, the regulations grew up around the concept of a \"protected service area.\" In the communication service, on the other hand, regulations developed in the direction of limiting the bandwidth and confining emissions within the authorized band. The paper also traces the history of ISM regulation with its philosophy of assigned frequencies on which unlimited radiation is permitted with an associated requirement for severe limitation of radiation on other frequencies. It also discusses the \"low-power rules\" which establish the conditions under which low-power equipment may be operated without becoming a source of interference. The paper describes briefly the voluntary work in this area by industry, and touches on local regulations concerning interference."
"Radio frequency interference has been a particularly difficult area for achieving effective standardization, principally because of technical considerations, but also because it is of concern to so many interests and activities. Prior to World War II, standardization efforts were mainly confined to the medium-frequency broadcast band. During the war it became evident that the problem must be considered on a much broader basis. More recently, highly critical systems being used in space research have placed additional requirements on system engineering for interference-free operation. Radio frequency interference can mean the difference between success and failure of a costly space project. There are four general categories in which standardization efforts are required: 1) terms and definitions, 2) measurement methods, 3) instrument characteristics, and 4) interference limits. Various professional, industrial, and governmental organizations are working at both national and international levels on standards in these areas."
"This paper is based on the theme that although there have been, admittedly, many instances of spectrum crowding, and many specific examples can be cited, no one knows just how crowded the available spectrum is. This is because quantitative measures of the use of this important natural resource are not established. The factors contributing to spectrum crowding are outlined briefly and suggestions for the development of methods for determining their importance are made."
"Starting with a brief discussion of the implications to Reliability of the parallel accelerated growth of modem technology the history of Reliability is traced through four decades. Following the early groundwork of the years before 1940 the decade of the 30's has been described as the Standardization Decade. Here the new emphasis was on specific standards of all kinds. The following decade of the 1940's has been described as the Quality Control Decade. This new field was developed with emphasis on process control and the uniformity of product. This was followed by the Reliability Decade during which the new emphasis was on the inherent reliability of design and the time degradation of performance. The 1960's have ushered in a new decade and new emphasis on coordinated controls in all areas and phases of design, development and production. The new decade has been described as the Product Assurance Decade, wherein the emphasis is being placed on assurance to management and to the customer that all the important product characteristics are being optimized and that all the technical specialties involved in providing the highest value product on schedule are being integrated effectively. This new emphasis is on coordinated programs embracing all the related control specialties sometimes referred to as the Big R approach. These specialties include Reliability Engineering, Maintainability Engineering, Total Quality Assurance, Value Engineering and System Integration among others."
"The developments in electronic remote measurement and control as applied to aircraft, rockets and satellites are described. The highlights are considered to be those developments which have contributed most to the technical progress made in the last twenty years. The impact of magnetic tape recorders, automatic digital computers and transistors upon telemetry and remote control is shown. The transition from remote control to automatic control and guidance is noted and the advent of the remote control-computertelemetry closed loop is discussed. The characteristics of data transmission which differentiate it from ordinary radio communications are introduced and new horizons in the industrial applications of telemetry and remote control are described."
"The phenomenally rapid growth of space flight has placed stringent demands upon the electronics engineer to develop instrumentation of modest size, weight, power consumption and heat dissipation, but of maximum sensitivity, stability, lifetime and reliability. Space flight is creating situations for which no well-developed precedents exist, thus requiring the evolution of new techniques or new basic ideas. Attitude control equipment of space craft will utilize infrared sensors, or the earth-magnetic field, or a radio beam from earth. Cryogenics will be applied to create low operating temperatures. Communications must be maintained by line-of-sight links; the NASA Deep Space Instrumentation Facility will be capable of serving space shots planned for the next few years. Communication systems can be substantially improved by using quantum-electronic devices and light-weight electric power supplies. Telemeter problems include the enormous amount of data which must be transmitted from giant launch vehicles, and the transmission from a space probe of a maximum of data over large distances with a minimum of power. The Saturn C-1 and Mariner telemeter systems are described to illustrate these problems. Space operations such as orbital rendezvous, orbital assembly and launch, approach and descent to the moon and planets will require automated equipment to an extent not previously faced on earth. Electric power supplies with long life, low weight and high reliability are required for the electric and electronic devices on board a space craft; solar and nuclear power appear most attractive to satisfy the requirements."
"This paper reviews and predicts the roles that data processing and information transmission have played, and will play, in space. The trend toward digital transmission is shown to be a result of increasing requirements for precision, reliability, high information rates, and long paths. Thus, data processing and transmission techniques appear to be converging rapidly, both because of the advantages of digital communication systems and because of the predicted weight and volume reductions for computer equipment. Many improvements in transmission efficiency will result from this merging of techniques, notably in the areas of data compaction and computer-controlled adaptive communications. The problem of maintaining a satisfactory SNR in spite of the signal loss from space attenuation is reviewed. General trends in the techniques designed to improve this ratio are reported and several promising developments are emphasized. Among these are the use of signals with large bandwidth-time products, maser amplifiers, and a novel telemetry system which provides high antenna gain with a greatly reduced orientation problem and eliminates spacecraft transmitting equipment by transferring it to earth."
"The theme of this paper is based on the growing use of self-contained navigational systems in space navigation. A figure of merit, called the self-containment index (SCI), is defined in order to define quantitatively the degree of autonomy for which a system design is directed. The navigational problem of spacecraft is divided into problems of point-dynamics and rigid-body dynamics and the major factors are defined which deserve consideration in the understanding of the space navigational problem. Consistent with the requirements for low size, weight and power allocations and for very high accuracy and reliability tolerances, optical techniques are found ideally suited for space navigation. Open-loop and closed-loop methods of earth satellite navigation are presented and extended to the lunar navigation problem. Some advanced navigational concepts are given using nonrotating and track-while-scan instruments. The importance is emphasized of the increase in data-processing requirements and their part in accuracy enhancement through statistical techniques. A review of optical Doppler and lasers for measurement of distance and velocity is given. The concept of guidance management is proposed for consolidation of all the launch, orbital, midcourse, return and other guidance phases of a future multistage spacecraft into a single, integrated, selfcontained navigation system within the final upper stage."
"A short historical review is given of the development of ultrasonics. Uses in the low-amplitude range are sonar systems, dispersive and nondispersive delay lines, ultrasonic inspectoscopes, and crystal and mechanical filters. In all of these applications, the very low internal friction of metals and fused silica provides very low losses, while the guided wave properties of various shaped transmission paths provide either dispersive or nondispersive transmission. The dispersive transmission is useful for FM radar systems which are not limited in power by breakdown of the system, while nondispersive delay lines have uses in MTI radar systems, in pulse decoding systems and in computers. The low dissipation and frequency stabilities inherent in quartz crystal vibrations have been used extensively in the production of very selective filters and in the control of oscillators. Ultrasonics and hypersonics (frequencies about 109 cycles) are useful tools for investigating liquid and solid-state reactions."
"This paper presents a brief description of various successful industrial applications that have been made of ultrasonics. The applications are divided into three broad groups: low, medium, and high power. In the low-power group are included reduction of friction, inspection, remote control, flaw detection, and other types of gauging and nondestructive testing. The medium-power group includes ultrasonic machining, soldering, medical therapy, liquid level indicators, and similar types of depth gauges and instruments. The high-power group includes precision cleaning, emulsification, dispersion of metals, metallurgical, bacteriological, and other chemical and physical processing applications. It is only natural that the lowand medium-power applications received first commercial acceptance, while the high-power applications advanced more slowly awaiting the development of low-cost high-power ultrasonic transducers and low-cost ultrasonic power supplies. These latter requirements are at present reasonably well met, which means that great increases in industrial high-power ultrasonic applications can be expected in the immediate future."
"The current importance of ultrasonic energy for the investigation and modification of biological systems is reviewed and the immediately foreseeable potential apparent to the author is predicted. The uses of ultrasound in basic research studies of biological systems and medical applications are conveniently grouped into two major categories: passive uses, or those in which the acoustic field does not significantly modify either permanently or temporarily structure and/or function of the system, and active uses, or those in which modification of the system is the objective. Included within the first category are: absorption spectroscopy of solutions of macromolecular species, microscopy of cells and tissues, absorption characteristics of gross tissue, and visualization of soft tissue structure and its dynamics. The second category includes: the use of ultrasound in neuroanatomical and neurophysiological studies and the treatment of neurological disorders by the production of selective permanent or temporary changes in arrays of sites in the central nervous system, destruction of carcinogenic tissue, modification of endocrine glands, investigation of contractile and other properties of muscle, and the potentiation of ionizing radiation by simultaneous application of ultrasound. Applications of ultrasound in the biomedical field of a primarily technological nature are either mentioned only briefly or omitted entirely from the review. The \"socioeconomic\" factors which determine the level of financial support, and thus the rate of scientific progress, for a field are also briefly mentioned."
"This paper on land-mobile radio communications was prepared for the noncommunications and nonmobile radio specialist. The early pioneering work of the police is covered, and after a brief statement about the early use of mobile transmitters, the Connecticut State Police two-way FM system is described. From the introduction of FM into the Connecticut system to the present, engineering efforts have been directed toward the improvement of selectivity, the elimination of spurious responses and spurious radiation of the equipment, and in general, toward technical improvements which would make possible both an increase in spectrum utilization and an increase in channel loading. In the more recent embodiments of equipments, transistors have been used for the power supply, for audio amplifiers, and for complete receiver circuit design. While the use of single-sideband modulation and the general characteristics of random-access systems are under investigation, advantages have not been disclosed which would justify a switch from FM to some other modulation system. The efficiency of frequency utilization must be increased, and any system which offers a substantial improvement over FM will be given careful attention."
"Starting from current trends in the field of land mobile radio-telephone services, primarily in the United States of America, forecasts of development over the next ten to twenty years have been made. It is estimated that by 1970 there will be two and a half million mobile telephones in the United States and over thirteen million by 1980. There is a discussion of the interrelated political, economic and engineering factors which will affect the future of vehicular communications. To meet user needs, coordinated broad-band systems are predicted for use cooperatively and on a common carrier basis with great efficiency of spectrum utilization. Currently, a broad-band system of 1000 channels could be accommodated in about 75 Mc of contiguous frequency spectrum in the lower part of the UHF band. It is conceivable that within the next two decades many more channels could be accommodated in a given bandwidth. Reducing the cost of mobile telephones is both necessary and capable of attainment. Pocket-size for a mobile telephone is indicated as probable during this period. New features for user convenience and better systems perfornance, such as full-duplex operation, push buttons for signaling, improved frequency stability, automatic channel selection and mobile station identification are predicted in coordinated systems within the next twenty years. y the IRE, June 26, 1961."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors and their article page numbers."
"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"There is frequently more or less acrimonious discussion about artificial intelligence and intelligent machines and their place in science. Usually the discussion settles down to the reiteration of two points of view. This paper is concerned with the difference between them. Do they merely reflect two emotional or ethical biases, or is there an underlying technical judgment on which they disagree? The authors claim the latter and purport to show what that judgment is."
"A thin-film transistor, TFT, fabricated by evaporation of all components on to an insulating substrate has been developed. Operation is based upon the control of injected majority carriers in a wide-band-gap semiconductor by means of an insulated control gate. Experimental units using microcrystalline layers of cadmium sulfide have yielded voltage amplification factors greater than 100, transconductances greater than 10,000 , μmho, input impedances greater than 106 Ω shunted by 50 pf and gain-bandwidth products greater than 10 Mc. Switching speeds of less than 0.1 μsec have been observed. Simple evaporated thin-film circuits incorporating the TFT have been built. Direct coupling between stages is permitted since the insulated gate electrode can be biased positively as well as negatively without drawing appreciable gate current. Modified forms of the TFT have been built for use as a flip-flop, an AND gate and a NOR gate in computer applications."
"An S-band traveling-wave maser that operates over an 11 per cent tuning range is tuned by a single \"frequency-calibrated\" dial from 2120 to 2380 Mc. The maser has a relatively constant gain of 30 db and an instantaneous bandwidth of 22 Mc. It uses a comb-type slow-wave structure loaded on both sides with a 6 in length of 0.065 per cent chromium-doped ruby. Ferrimagnetic disks of yttrium iron garnet are periodically distributed in the slow-wave structure and provide sufficient reverse loss for short-circuit stability (100 db). A relatively high gain per unit length of active ruby was realized because of: 1) optimization of the C axis orientation with respect to the dc and RF magnetic fields, 2) utilization of a four spin flip cross-relaxation process and 3) loading both sides of the comb structure with active ruby. The traveling-wave maser and all the necessary auxiliary components have been packaged into an operational unit. The noise temperature of the system is about 10°K, and the short-term and long-term stabilities are ±0.05 db and ± 0.1 db, respectively. A series of detailed measurements on the important electrical characteristics are described, and the performance data is presented. The system has been designed and successfully tested to meet military field environmental specifications."
"This paper describes the application of the magnetoresistance effect to oscillators using the high mobility semiconducting compound InSb as the active element. The first stable oscillator consisted of an InSb Corbino disk in a ferrite pot core reduced to a temperature of -40°C. The frequency was 210 cps and the open-circuited ac voltage was 540 mv, peak to peak. In order to construct a stable oscillator at room temperature, the shape of the semiconductor specimen was modified to a rectangular form composed of narrow strips of InSb joined together with metallic indium. This specimen has a comparatively higher internal resistance and a more pronounced magnetoresistance effect at low magnetic flux densities. A second oscillator using this specimen as an active element in an E-form ferrite core was tested and found to operate stably at a temperature of 25°C, in a frequency range from a few cps up to 300 cps. The maximum output power available was 2.5 mw, at 70 cps. There is no heating-up time required by the oscillator and the oscillation can start immediately under certain initial conditions. The elimination of the equipment to provide the low temperature, i.e., below 0° C for the oscillator has shown that the magnetoresistance effect can be made good use of in electronic devices without requiring a complicated circuit arrangement."
"In this study a simplified analytic test of stability of linear discrete systems is obtained. This test also yields the necessary and sufficient conditions for a real polynomial in the variable z to have all its roots inside the unit circle in the z plane. The new stability constraints require the evaluation of only half the number of Schur-Cohn determinants [1], [2]. It is shown that for the test of a fourth-order system only a third-order determinant is required and for the fifth-order, one second-order and one fourth-order determinant are required. The test is applied directly in the z plane and yields the minimum number of constraint terms. Stability constraints up to the sixth-order case are obtained and for the nth-order case are formulated. The simplicity of this criterion is similar to that of the Lienard-Chipard criterion [3] for the continuous case which has a decisive advantage over the Routh-Hurwitz criterion [4], [5]. Finally, general conditions on the number of roots inside the unit circle for n even and odd are also presented in this paper."
"Many pattern recognition machines may be considered to consist of two principal parts, a receptor and a categorizer. The receptor makes certain measurements on the unknown pattern to be recognized; the categorizer determines from these measurements the particular allowable pattern class to which the unknown pattern belongs. This paper is concerned with the study of a particular class of categorizers, the linear decision function. The optimum linear decision function is the best linear approximation to the optimum decision function in the following sense: 1) \"Optimum\" is taken to mean minimum loss (which includes minimum error systems). 2) \"Linear\" is taken to mean that each pair of pattern classes is separated by one and only one hyperplane in the measurement space. This class of categorizers is of practical interest for two reasons: 1) It can be empirically designed without making any assumptions whatsoever about either the distribution of the receptor measurements or the a priori probabilities of occurrence of the pattern classes, providing an appropriate pattern source is available. 2) Its implementation is quite simple and inexpensive. Various properties of linear decision functions are discussed. One such property is that a linear decision function is guaranteed to perform at least as well as a minimum distance categorizer. Procedures are then developed for the estimation (or design) of the optimum linear decision function based upon an appropriate sampling from the pattern classes to be categorized."
"Errors reported in 1946 by aircraft pilots using pulsed radar altimeters over Antarctic ice, coupled wih results of radio-wave propagation studies in both polar areas (1946-1955), led to measurements of the electrical characteristics of thick ice at high and ultra-high frequencies. These measurements produced information relative to dielectric constants, loss factors, scattering, and interface reflection data that subsequently permitted successful radio-wave penetration measurements in continental ice to depth of several hundred feet in both the Antarctic and the Arctic (1958-1960). Results indicated clearly that low-flying pilots relying on pulsed 440-Mc altimeters in poor visibility over thick ice can be fatally misled by errors inherent in these instruments. The paper presents recent data obtained by the Signal Corps pertinent to radio-wave transparency of thick ice and snow."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides a list of abstracts by number and their corresponding issues and pagination."
"In this index a name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1961."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"If the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics is applied to the process of signal measurement, two theorems relating to amplifier noise performance can be deduced. First, it can be shown that it is impossible to construct a linear noiseless amplifier. Second, if the amplifier is characterized as having additive white Gaussian noise, it can be shown that the minimum possible noise temperature of any linear amplifier is T.= In 2 -IIG -hv 1-1/ IG k In the limit of high gain G this expression reduces to that previously derived for the ideal maser and parametric amplifier. It is shown that the minimum noise amplifier does not degrade the signal but rather allows the use of an inaccurate detector to make measurements on an incoming signal to the greatest accuracy consistent with the uncertainty principle."
"The analysis of solid-state cavity masers is extended to include the reactive component of the paramagnetic resonance. This reactance is inverted (in opposition to Foster's reactance theorem). A two-cavity network makes use of this negative frequency dependence of reactance to obtain a broad-band flat-topped amplifier response. In verification of this theory a ruby maser has been built which has a 95-Mc bandwidth at 14-db gain and operates at 9000 Mc and 1.5°K. This performance is comparable to that of published, tapered magnetic field traveling-wave masers. General network limitations on cavity maser amplifiers are derived. Broadbanding techniques that have been published for parametric amplifiers are essentially equivalent. The tuning of the broad-band amplifier is critical. The same performance can be achieved in a unilateral transmission maser by using circularly polarized cavities, but the problem of circuit design and tuning with the increased number of parameters has thus far prevented successful operation."
"This paper is a self-contained exposition of the conventional theory of propagation of VLF radio waves. The model is a spherical earth surrounded by a concentric ionosphere. Although the model is highly idealized, the theory is still quite involved. The complexities arise from the long wavelengths inherent in such problems. In Section I the elementary geometrical or hop theory for VLF is considered. This includes a discussion of ionospheric reflection coefficients and the influence of multiple reflections. The validity of the model is established by a comparison with experimental data. In Section II, the diffractive corrections near the caustics of the ray systems are obtained. These provide a means to extend the theory to points near and beyond the horizon point for the individual hops or rays. In Section III, the waveguide mode theory is expounded. A number of approximations and simplifications are introduced in order to illustrate principles. References to more detailed analyses which use higher order approximations are given. Finally, in Section IV, the influence of a stratified ionosphere is treated by using a two-layer model. The material in this paper was included in the Summer (1961) Lecture Course on Radio Propagation given at the Boulder Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards, and in earlier graduate courses, at the University of Colorado."
"When a number of negative resistance elements are interconnected, a multistable voltage-current characteristic will be generated. The form of this composite characteristic will depend on the mode of interconnection and on the characteristics of the individual elements. 2n stable states can be generated using n negative resistance elements when the individual characteristics of the elements obey certain rules derived herein. A modified flip-flop circuit has been developed whose characteristic can be precisely tailored to fulfill the requirements. Several applications to logical functions are discussed. Potential advantages of this method lie in the circuit simplicity resulting from an intrinsic feedback operation which replaces separate logical functions."
"Highly phase-stable, crystal-controlled oscillators are playing an increasingly important role in extending the range of deep-space communications. For example, during a recent radar experiment with the planet Venus, then at a range of 35-million miles, real-time detection was accomplished with a receiver bandwidth of 5 cps and a search frequency of 2388 Mc. Spectral measurements of the Venus-reflected signal indicated at times a spectrum of only a few cycles in width. The ability to resolve such narrow phenomena was gained through the use of extremely phase-stable oscillators combined with extremely precise predicted control of the frequency of the receiver local oscillator. The purpose here is to discuss oscillator phase noise, its origin, and techniques for its observation and measurement. Relationship between the phase noise, the spectrum, the short-term stability, and the Q of the oscillator is established."
"This paper deals with a p-n junction device which will be called a \"Step Recovery Diode\" because its conductivity variation during reverse recovery approximates a step function. The transition from reverse storage conduction to cutoff for this diode can occur in about a nanosecond, and it can produce associated discontinuities up to about an ampere and/or a hundred volts. This step recovery action can be conveniently used to generate waveforms which are very rich in high-order harmonics in the gigacycle region. In many cases it offers considerable advantage in circuit simplicity and power-handling capability over alternative diode harmonic generators. This paper is concerned with the factors that go into the appropriate mating of this diode with its circuit, and with evaluation of the performance that can be achieved. As a by-product of this analysis, a generalized evaluation of rectification efficiency is obtained which is useful for many conventional semiconductor diodes in conventional rectifier circuits. This analysis also leads to a convenient method for evaluating the lifetime of semiconductor diodes, which is particularly useful in the fractional nanosecond range because it separates out capacitive effects."
"This paper presents evidence that systematic oblique incidence channel sampling transmissions are valuable for improving the reliability of air-ground HF communications when propagation conditions are marginal. This evidence results from air-ground radio communications trials supplemented by frequency sounding transmissions over flight paths of up to 1260 nautical miles into auroral zone latitudes from a ground station in Nova Scotia. The ground-air frequency sounding measurements established that propagation via clouds of auroral sporadic E was possible for a high percentage of time during geomagnetic storms. These modes provided a useful, and often the only, mode for communications over the air-ground path. In order to communicate effectively via auroral E modes, it was found necessary to use a wide selection of aeronautical frequencies. In addition, because of the rapid variation in HF propagation conditions, it was found desirable to renew channel sampling measurements once every five minutes on each frequency assignment. It was established that this procedure for the selection of operating frequencies during disturbances resulted in communications reliability that was appreciably higher than would have been obtained if other frequency selection techniques, alone, were followed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"At a special meeting of the membership, held at IRE Headquarters at 9 AM, July 10, 1962, IRE members approved, by a 6.5-to-1 margin, plans to merge with the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE) to form the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) on January 1, 1963. Voting by proxy and in person, 36,221 members, or 86.8% of those voting, expressed themselves in favor of merger, with 5,489, or 13.2%, opposed. Of the 66,152 members eligible to vote, 63.1% voted, an unusually high percentage. AIEE members previously approved the proposed merger, by a virtually identical vote, on June 18, at their annual meeting in Denver, Colo., with 87.1% in favor, 12.9% opposed, and 61.4% of the eligible members voting. IRE members also approved a resolution modifying the nomination and election procedures provided in the Constitution while the proposed merger is pending. As a result of the favorable vote by members of both societies, a 14-man merger committee, seven from each society, is proceeding with plans to prepare for and implement the merger."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Within recent years the life sciences have realized the significance of the contributions which can be made by the engineer, and the engineering sciences are beginning to realize the value of the contributions which can be made by the life sciences in bionics. A new field has developed which may be called bio-medical engineering. The National Institutes of Health is now engaged in a program designed to provide support in research, training, and facilities for this broad area. Support will be largely in the field of the application of engineering theory to the biological sciences, and may not include some of the aspects of applied engineering or instrumentation except as they arise as a result of theoretical development."
"The purpose of this paper is to present the principles involved in calculating the energy band structures of semiconductors. These calculations can be simplified by the use of group theory, which is a branch of analysis that permits expressing the symmetry properties of crystals in a quantitative manner. Some of the simpler concepts of group theory are explained and then applied to band structure determinations."
"The basic principles of one- and two-carrier, volume-controlled injection currents are reviewed. One-carrier injected currents are necessarily space-charge-limited and are strongly affected by the presence of traps which usually capture and immobilize most of the injected carriers. The trapped carriers are in an effective thermal equilibrium with the free injected carriers. The concepts of \"shallow\" and \"deep\" traps are defined and their effects on injected currents studied. It is shown that the presence of \"deep\" traps leads to a very steep rise of current with voltage, resembling a breakdown curve, at an appropriate voltage. Under double injection, that is, the simultaneous injection into the insulator of electrons from a cathode and holes from an anode, space-charge limitations are at least partially overcome but recombination of injected carriers presents a new limitation on the current flow. In any insulator at sufficiently high injection levels both recombination and space charge contribute to limitation of the current, leading to a dependence of current on the cube of the voltage, for monomolecular recombination processes. For double injection into a semiconductor, the presence of thermally generated free carriers leads to charge neutrality (the so-called ohmic relaxation process) and recombination alone limits the current. In a semiconductor long compared to a diffusion length this leads to a dependence of current on the square of the voltage."
"The generation of radiation by miing optical maser signals is one possible method for closing the gap between microwaves and infrared. The conversion efficiency attainable with different types of nonlinear media is considered. It is shown that lossless nonlinear media, such as dielectrics, have very low conversion efficiency properties, regardless of the way they are used. Nonlinear resistive media, on the other hand, have efficiencies up to 25 per cent, independently of the frequency conversion ratio. Consequently, in order to generate wavelengths in the nillimeter range by mixing optical maser outputs, the materials used should involve nonlinear dissipative processes."
"A new method has been employed for the design of solid-beam electron guns of high perveance and area convergence. This has resulted in designs with perveance 2.2×10-6 a/v3/2 and convergence ratio 300; and perveance 5×10-6 a/V3/2 and area convergence 6. Using conventional methods, a design with perveance 0.1×10-6a/v3/2 and area convergence ratio 1000 has been obtained. Each of these guns has yielded over 95 per cent transmission through a drift tube, in most cases with less than 1.5 times theoretical Brillouin focusing magnetic field. The design method consists of 1) paper design following earlier workers; 2) construction of a model using the design cathode and anode, but with the focus electrode replaced by a series of annular disk electrodes; 3) measurement, in pulsed bell-jar beam tester, of the beam leaving this gun, by means of a pinhole aperture followed by a split collector, yielding data on current density and trajectory angle as a function of radius and axial position; 4) modifications of annular disk potentials and cathode surface shape to improve beam quality; 5) electrolytic tank determination of the shape of a single electrode to replace the annular disks; and 6) test of the final design in a sealed-off, shielded-cathode, pulsed beam tester in which the beam flows through a drift tube in a uniform magnetic field. These methods are relatively exact and rapid. Drawings are presented for some specific designs."
"The limiting noise mechanism in field-effect transistors is thermal noise of the conducting channel. The noise can be represented by a current generator ✓i2 in parallel to the output. The value of i2 is calculated; for zero drain voltage the noise corresponds to thermal noise of the drain conductance, and for other bias conditions the noise at a given gate voltage depends only slightly upon the drain voltage. Because of modulation effects in the channel, i2 is somewhat larger than the thermal noise of the dc drain conductance, except for zero drain bias and beyond saturation. The noise resistance of the device is approximately equal to gmax/g,m2, where gm is the transconductance of the transistor and gmax its maximum value. The approximation becomes even closer if feedback due to the series resistances of the channel must be taken into account."
"The first-, second-, and third-order temperature coefficients of the elastic stiffnesses and compliances of alpha-quartz have been derived from thickness mode resonances of double-rotated quartz plates employing Christoffel's theory of wave propagation. The temperature dependence of all possible thickness modes can be calculated from the values of the elastic stiffnesses and their temperature coefficients as derived during this investigation. A curve showing the locus of the first-order zero temperature coefficient of frequency of thickness-shear modes has been calculated and compared with experiments. The second- and third-order temperature coefficients of frequency of the first-order zero quartz cuts are given. Applications to AT, BT, CT, and DT cuts are made by comparing the calculated with the experimental values which characterize the temperature behavior of frequencies and new useful piezoelectric cuts of quartz are indicated."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Biographies of Ernst Weber, B. Richard Teare, Jr., Lloyd V. Berkner, H. Endley Blackmon, Warren H. Chase, W. Russell Clark, John W. Davis, Patrick E. Haggerty, Ferdinand Hamburger, Jr., John T. Henderson, Herbert 0. Hodson, Lynn C. Holmes, Titus G. Leclair, Clarence H. Linder, J. Eliot Mccormack, Ronald L. Mcfarlan, Daniel E. Noble, Bernard M. Oliver, Walter E. Peterson, Haraden Pratt, John D. Ryder, William G. Shepherd, Eugene C. Starr, F. Karl Willenbrock, Alfred N. Goldsmith, Elgin B. Robertson."
"The information capacity of various communications systems is considered. Quantum effects are taken fully into account. The entropy of an electromagnetic wave having the quantum statistical properties of white noise in a single transmission mode is found, and from it the information efficiency of various possible systems may be derived. The receiving systems considered include amplifiers, heterodyne and homodyne converters and quantum counters. In the limit of high signal or noise power (compared to hνB, where h is Planck's constant and ν and B are, respectively, the center frequency and bandwidth of the channel) the information efficiency of an amplifier can approach unity. In the limit of low powers the amplifier becomes inefficient, while the efficiency of the quantum counter can approach unity. The amount of information that can be incorporated in a wave drops off rather rapidly when the power drops below hνB."
"Action potentials recorded across membranes may have a maximum rate of rise of up to 103 v/sec and the impedance of the electrode plus the generator is of the order of 10 MΩ. Therefore, to reduce distortion of the recorded signal, it is necessary to diminish the effective capacitance of the input circuit to about 1 μμf. It is also requisite to reduce the currents which pass through the biological specimen, both the input grid current (< 10-13 A) and the current charging the input capacitance (< 10-9 A). The performance of a cathode follower and a negative capacitance as to reduction of input capacitance was measured by the damping factor a and the time constant T' of the second-order transfer function. An equivalent input time constant Teq = aT' of 10 μsec ensures small distortion and negligible current through the cell. Whether a cathode follower or a negative capacitance is the more suitable depends on the value of that part of the input-ground capacitance Cg, which cannot be removed by screening. When Cg is large (microelectrode deeply immersed in the specimen) a negative capacitance is advantageous; with a small value of Cg (electrode immersed < 1 mm) the cathode follower may neutralize to a Teq = 30 μsec as does a negative capacitance with a cutoff frequency of 200 kc."
"The need for a wide-band preamplifier to measure bioelectric potentials from a source with high internal resistance and shunt capacitance has stimulated the development of instruments which should be generally useful. Consideration is given to the simultaneous attainment of such factors as low grid current, linearity, low drift, and improved dynamic response by compensation for input capacitance. An analysis of a simplified circuit is augmented by the use of an analog computer to simulate the system for a preamplifier having either a first- or second-order response. Some examples of circuits suitable for bioelectric measurements are described. It has been possible to chopper-stabilize such preamplifiers against drift without significant degradation of their high input impedance characteristics."
"Criteria for bandwidth limits for neutralized input capacity amplifiers are developed. The behavior of different neutralization schemes is analyzed in terms of the root locus of the system gain function. This technique permits quantitative design and evaluation of the different circuits that have been used. It makes it possible to judge the effectiveness of new approaches to the problem. It is shown that second-order amplifiers may achieve inherently faster response than amplifiers with a single time constant. Using a critically damped criterion, the maximum bandwidth of the second-order amplifier is equal to the cube root of the product of the input circuit bandwidth times the square of the amplifier bandwidth with the input circuit removed. A single time constant amplifier has a maximum bandwidth equal to the square root of the product of the input circuit bandwidth times that of the amplifier alone. It is shown also that one may have to choose between speed of response and excess noise. The noise figure of these systems may increase markedly with bandwidth and increases to a lesser degree with the system complexity."
"The response of an elliptically polarized antenna to a quasi-monochromatic, partially polarized radio wave is treated from the standpoint of coherence theory. A general formula is derived for the available power at the terminals of a receiving antenna in terms of appropriately chosen coherency matrices for the antenna and the incident wave. It is shown that the result is formally identical with the basic interference law of partially coherent, quasi-monochromatic wave fields. Conditions for the maximum available power are discussed, and a geometrical interpretation of the result is given. The coherency matrix for the antenna is determined uniquely in terms of the transmitting properties of the antenna. It is shown that the coherency matrix formalism for the interaction of an antenna with an incident wave fits very well with those used in the modern theory of optics and quantum mechanics. A new definition for the antenna effective aperture using the coherency matrix is suggested, which takes into account the polarization property of the antenna."
"This paper analyzes telephone communication as applied to a satellite repeater system. Particular emphasis is placed on a method of coherent reception which is important to our emerging communication satellite systems. This reception technique is not new to the field of space communications and telemetry; however, it is new to the field of common carrier telephony. As a consequence, for the class of signals utilized in common carrier telephony, an attempt is made to place on a quantitative footing the design of FDM/FM satellite communication systems. The interrelation among such quantities as sensitivity, bandwidth occupancy, and channel quality is presented for a simply realized second-order receiving system. In addition, the maximum sensitivity achievable with the optimum receiving system is shown. It is anticipated that these two situations will bound the performance of the majority of systems."
"A linear passive unilateral element, which has a high forward/backward transmission ratio at all frequencies, is realized by combining two resistances and an electromechanical gyrator according to Gamo's theory. The gyrator consists of three mechanically coupled ceramic elements, two of which may be piezomagnetic and the third piezoelectric, or two of which may be piezoelectric and the third piezomagnetic. In either arrangement, a unilateral coupling between mechanical and electrical systems is provided by using one piezoelectric and one piezomagnetic element. The third element is merely for driving the mechanical system. Such a design makes manufacturing considerably easier. Characteristics of the gyrator have been discussed based on an equivalent circuit. A constant input resistance can be obtained at a terminal pair of the isolator by purely electrical means even after the fabrication of the gyrator. This simplifies the matching at this terminal. The theoretical minimum insertion loss is 3 db under the matched termination conditions. A few models have been made at 150 kc using both the sandwiched and the cascaded structures. A highly achromatic suppression of backward transmission (45 db) has been obtained in agreement with theoretical predictions. Minimum forward insertion loss consists of the theoretical minimum of 3 db and an excess loss of a few db due principally to mechanical losses."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Compiled by the Radio Research Organization of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, London, England, and Published by Arrangement with that Department and Electronic Technology, Dorset House, Stamford St., London S.E. 1, England, UK. The Index to the Abstracts and References published in the PROC. IRE from February, 1961 through January, 1962 is published by the PROC. IRE, June, 1962, Part II. It is also published by Electronic Technology and appears in the March, 1962, issue of that Journal. Included with the Index is a selected list of journals scanned for abstracting with publishers' addresses."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new application of the near-field theory is described which permits determination of the relative bearing of one object with respect to another by a simple phase measurement without an additional reference signal. The same instrument is used to measure distance between the objects. The angle indication is independent of distance."
"Trans World Airlines will pioneer use of Doppler radar as a primary means of transport aircraft navigation over the North Atlantic. This paper summarizes flight test results using dual Doppler radar sensors and dual Doppler navigation computers on Boeing 707 long range aircraft. Test flights have been flown over TWA's North Atlantic routes for almost two years to \"prove-in\" the Doppler system."
"This paper shows that, if the signal-to-noise power ratio (S/N) is found for any steady deviation δ of a parameter from its required value, then in a closed-loop linear servo system, the actual rms variation of the parameter from its required value due to noise cannot exceed the rms value:"
"This is a known type of system in which a suitable rotating element in the optical system causes the image of the star field to nutate over the surface of a mask divided into alternative sectors of opaque and transparent material. When the lock star is on the axis of the entry optical system, the lock-star image traverses a circular path on the mask concentric with the mask giving rise to an unvarying frequency in the output of a photo cell behind the mask. With misalignment of the star image from the axis of the entrance optical system, the circular track is displaced as the result of which the output of the photo cell is frequency modulated. The resulting FM wave is suitably processed to provide misalignment signals along two axes. This paper derives the value of σ = (r/R)(S/N)-1/2 for the system, using various photomultiplier tubes used as photo cells, and various parameters such as angular velocity of star image, number of sectors on mask, and diameter of objective of entrance optical systems: r = radial displacement of star-image track. R = radius of star-image track."
"This system is identical with the FM system using a linear mask except that the sectors of the mask are bounded by spirals. The value of σ = (r/R)(S/N)-1/2 is derived for the case of spiral masks of three kinds."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This tutorial paper presents an introduction to the problems of communications between aerospace vehicles and stations on the ground. The possible types of aerospace-to-ground communication links are described and classified according to the mode of signal propagation and according to obtainable range. The suitability of carrier frequencies throughout the electromagnetic radiation spectrum from very-low radio frequencies to light frequencies is discussed for the various types of links. Considerations of the information needed for the selection of modulation and demodulation techniques are presented, and factors which influence the practical value of digital coding are introduced. A discussion of the mutual influence of various parameters on the transmitter power requirement concludes the general survey."
"A survey of the principal methods of improving the reliability of long-range digital communication systems introduces the subject. Special modulation techniques as well as redundant transmission of pulses, redundant in time and in carrier frequency, are described as methods to counteract the effects of multipath distortion in connection with the proper special demodulation and diversity reception techniques. It is shown that for an air-to-ground communication system, in which Doppler shift has to be considered in addition to the multipath distortion, high reliability can be obtained if quantized frequency modulation (QFM) and time redundancy are properly applied. To make the protection against multipath distortion most effective, the transmitted signal must have a wide frequency band. The optimum time diversity requires interleaving the redundant pulses and, therefore, requires complex logic circuitry for its instrumentation. The design characteristics of an \"optimum\" air-to-ground long-range digital communication system are described. In the concluding section, it is indicated how one can apply the design principles for an \"optimum\" long-range communication system (as described) to the design of narrow bandwidth system with relatively simple instrumentation."
"The application of digital techniques to aeronautical air traffic control communications has been under study in the United States for more than fifteen years. During the past four years active development and evaluation programs have been conducted by the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) on specific experimental equipment intended to provide guidance in the establishment of parameters for a universal system. Equipment has been developed using both low data rates and relatively high data rate approaches. Both systems utilize existing airborne voice communication equipment. The major effort was spent on the development and evaluation of an experimental \"Automatic Ground-Air Communication System\" referred to as AGACS. This two-way time division multiplex system was designed primarily for operation at 750 bits per second, and provided both frequency-shift keyed carrier (FSK) and tone-shifted amplitude-modulation (FSK-AM) options. The second equipment was developed under a program for \"Analysis of Advanced Data Transmission Techniques\" and utilized data rates in the range from approximately 30 to 200 bits per second. Audio tone-shifted (FSK-AM) modulation was used. The equipment developed is described and the results of the test evaluation is given. Guidelines are presented for future efforts."
"Digital techniques promise to be a major factor in future aerospace communications systems. Voice is cumbersome, slow and redundant, and does not make efficient use of the frequency spectrum. The digital approach permits the use of very narrow bandwidths, reduces redundancy and utilizes a constant loading factor. Selective addressing means that those not concerned with a message are not bothered by it, a very important factor in reducing distraction and fatigue of crew members in high performance aircraft. This paper describes terminal equipment developed for test and evaluation by the Air Force. The AN/URA-22 Control Monitor equipment provides for transmission of up to 456,976 different four-letter selective addresses, and recognition of individual, group and general calls, each of which can be any preassigned four-letter call. Remote switching is provided through the use of two mode characters, giving up to 676 possible combinations. The fieldata code is used. Mode characters and addressor call are displayed at the receive end. The AN/URA-29 Digital Data equipment adds message capability, using both words and alpha-numeric characters to provide three word messages, followed by up to 48 alpha-numeric characters in three lines of 16 characters each. Insertion is by simple push-button matrix and the message being composed is displayed. Received messages are displayed on receipt in plain language. The composed message is retained in storage until cleared. Operation of both equipments is explained in detail."
"The present aviation voice communications link has evolved gradually with aviation. It was not originally designed to satisfy its current application as the primary link in military and civil control systems. As a result, as these systems have expanded the communications link has become less adequate. In the future, limitations of the communications link may become the controlling factor in the expansion of aviation. For this reason there is an urgent need for a clear definition of a general data communication subsystem approach for both civil and military application. For this definition to be complete all factors of aviation communication usage must be considered. This paper carefully reviews 1) previous studies and development of civil and military data links, 2) published requirements of different aviation users, 3) evaluation of the future expansion of civil and military requirements, 4) current digital and communications technology, 5) transition from the present system to an improved system, and 6) the economic aspects of system design. From the considerations of this review a specification and approach to a general purpose aviation data communications subsystem is drawn. This approach provides for both voice and automatic communications and can be evolved gradually from the existing voice network."
"The National Aeronautics and Space Agency (NASA) has developed a coded message sequence consisting of discrete, pulse-duration-modulated (PDM) tone bursts for commanding satellites. The message consists of a sync pulse followed by some combination of six pulses, three each of zeros and ones. This code allows for 20 commands (the combination of six things taken three at a time). This paper describes an equipment developed for the Relay satellite program which demodulates the tone bursts, converts the pulse-duration modulation into a binary code, and then decodes the message into twenty discrete commands. The demodulation and PDM-to-binary code conversion functions are accomplished by conventional transistorized circuitry which is described in a general manner. The circuitry for converting the code into command pulses is a novel utilization of magnetic circuitry and is described in detail. Magnetic cores are used to provide a shift register function and in addition perform the decoding, thus eliminating the conventional diode matrix usually employed for this function. A summary of the physical and electrical characteristics of the finished equipment is presented."
"Revolutionary developments taking place in the field of light generation show promise of providing a means for transmitting digital information over vast distances in space at extremely high rates. These developments stem from the generation of coherent light by devices called LASERS (Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation). This paper gives a brief description of LASER operation and discusses the applicability of the device to certain aerospace vehicular digital communications requirements. An earth-moon link is an alyzed from the standpoint of beamwidth, power, and aiming requirements. It is shown that a system utilizing a coherent optical transmitter of less than 1 w and a conventional photodetector would be capable of transmitting digital information over this link at megacycle rates. The bandwidth limitation here is imposed by lack of a suitable modulator rather than by any theoretical bound, and the power level is dictated by earth background noise and a usable transmitter and receiver beam angle. Improvements which can be made on this rather simple system by increasing bandwidth and improving detection efficiency, tracking accuracy, and LASER techniques are pointed out. Curves showing basic limitations and interdependence of system parameters are plotted."
"Use of automatic height transmission, the essential \"third dimension\" for use in the control of aircraft, has been brought closer by action taken recently at the Seventh Session of the International Civil Aviation Organization. The Session recommended adoption of technical standards that will: 1) update and improve the existing international standards for SSR, better known in the U. S. as the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System (ATCRBS); 2) provide specifications for 3-pulse sidelobe suppression (SLS); 3) provide standards for introduction of automatic height transmission; and 4) specify conditions under which SSR is to be implemented. It was agreed further that the sensing element of the system should use a standard pressure setting of 1013.2 millibars and that it would be necessary to refer to the system as height transmission rather than altitude reporting. Although a separate data link for height transmission is a possibility, the probable implementation data was considered too uncertain. Since air traffic is a heterogeneous mixture of civil and military aircraft, the existing SSR used by both civil and military aircraft was expanded to accommodate automatic height transmission features. It was agreed that SSR is needed to supplement the use of primary radar in air traffic control, but that each country would determine whether or not its use is required. The system specifications are appended to the paper."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The purpose of this study was to design and analyze an adaptive maximum-performance take-off system for use in any aircraft having critical take-off requirements. This was accomplished by using various combinations of available flight parameters as inputs to a flight director, analyzing each combination under conditions of normal and reduced aircraft thrust on an analog computer and selecting the combination giving the maximum take-off performance without any sacrifice of flight safety. This preliminary investigation revealed that a system holding a constant angle-of-attack until acceleration goes to zero, and then holding a constant velocity, produced maximum take-off performance. To insure its dynamic response the selected system was then analyzed for stability by the root-locus technique and then further sensitized on the analog computer. This analysis of the system indicated that the compensatory effects of ø and v were required to furnish the necessary lead to the system. The compensated system was then instrumented to drive a commercially available indicator and installed and flown in an Air Force T-37 flight simulator where the indicator take-off performance was compared with that of a normal take-off. The results indicated that a substantial increase in performance over the normal take-off techniques can be obtained for modern civilian and military aircraft having critical take-off requirements. Not only can the take-off performance obtained from these aircraft be improved, but safety can also be increased. The use of the flight director made complete pitch control possible with only one instruments."
"The general equations for the propagation of error with distance traveled for the case of fix-corrected Doppler navigation along a path which consists of one or more rhumb-line legs are derived and shown to consist of a combination of six types of error variances. The specific expressions when the position-finding system used for fix correction is either a rho-theta (i.e., VORTAC) or a hyperbolic (i.e., Loran) type are given. The expressions for the resulting error spreads in terms of RMS or arbitrary x and y coponents are shown to be straightforward and easy to apply in most cases. The exact expressions for the size and spatial orientation of the elliptical equiprobability error contours are shown to be more complex and more difficult to apply practically. However, it is pointed out that the RMS error specification method is easily applicable in all of the practical cases considered. The use of the RMS error circle approximation is always safe although in some cases it may lead to \"overdesign.\""
"A conventional inertial navigation system navigates by sensing components of the acceleration vector along three mutually perpendicular axes held stable after some initial alignment. This paper discusses the need for initial alignment, followed by a review of the effects of alignment errors on navigation in order to establish the order of accuracies desired. Several alignment techniques are described and compared including synchro memory, optical autocollimation, self-leveling, gyrocompassing, and alignment from a moving vehicle. Transfer functions are developed for each alignment method, and trends in alignment techniques are discussed."
"A mechanical analog simulator for converting hyperbolic coordinates into rectangular coordinates for a short-range hyperbolic position-fixing system is described. The instrument caters for a range of about 40 km and a design accuracy of 0.5 per cent. The measured accuracy is discussed and compared to the theoretical predictions for the simulator. The station configurations with the least error magnification are discussed."
"A long-range investigation into the transmission, utilization, and processing of information for missiles and space vehicles has been initiated. The ultimate objective is a theory of control and communication for such vehicles which would relate the principles of information theory to the design philosophy of the control and communication systems. In investigating such information-theoretic guidance control problems, it is necessary to consider the effects of noise, both internal and external, on any possible computation control process. The external noises would arise in communication links, the drifts of gyros, possible variations in external conditions, variations in amounts and rates of rocket burning, and other causes. The internal noises could be those electronically generated (such as shot and Johnson noises) and those generated by digital computation processes. It is desirable to begin with simple but representative problems. In the event that an incremental digital or analog computer is part of a control loop, a typical problem would be signal plus noise into an analog or digital integrator."
"A long-range investigation into the transmission, utilization, and processing of information for missiles and space vehicles has been initiated. The ultimate objective is a theory of control and communication for such vehicles which would relate the principles of information theory to the design philosophy of the control and communication systems. In investigating such information-theoretic guidance-control problems, it is necessary to consider the effects of noise, both internal and external, on any possible computation-control process. The external noise would arise in communication links, the drifts of gyros, possible variations in external conditions, variations in amounts and rates of rocket burning, and other causes. The internal noises could be those electronically generated (such as shot and Johnson noises) and those generated by digital-computation processes. It is desirable to begin with simple but representative problems. In the event that a digital computer is part of a control loop, a typical problem would be signal plus noise into a digital integrator."
"This paper is concerned with the accuracy of singlehit angle estimation by a monopulse radar in the search mode. The system analyzed is an amplitude comparison estimator. Off-axis targets are considered. The effects of narrow-band Gaussian receiver noise on the sum and difference signals are considered. An asymptotic expansion for the angle estimate is derived which converges for SNR's of 12 db or greater. The mean and the standard deviation of the angle estimate are found. These statistics are given in terms of antenna radiation patterns, true target angular position, SNR, and noise statistics. It is found that the expected value of off-boresight angle estimates is equal to the true angle of the target. Further, the standard deviation of the angle estimate increases as the target is moved off boresight. This increase is greater than would be expected from the decrease in antenna gain due to off-axis operation. Correlation between noise in the sum and difference channels reduces the off-axis errors."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Doppler-inertial hybrid is analyzed as a multivariate system and a general performance criterion is formulated. The mathematical system model is optimized with respect to the performance criterion and synthesis of the optimum system is discussed."
"An experimental Video Tracking System has been developed by the Aviation Research and Development Service of the FAA for use in the control of aircraft operating in Transition-Terminal areas. This system communicates directly with a generalpuropse digital computer and is capable of generating and controlling 50 analog video trackers which can operate in either a Track-While-Scan or Rate-Aided mode. Additionally, the system provides aircraft position information to the computer for mathematical calculations of aircraft position errors, and processes computer-derived information for presentation on Plan Position Data Displays for controller use."
"An instrument-landing system glide-path has been developed which produces a straight-line path originating directly from the touchdown region on the runway. This system makes use of five flush-mounted runway antennas which are mounted directly in the runway, thus eliminating the ground-reflected signals which are presently used to form the path. As a result, the effects of terrain irregularities in the approach region are minimized. Additional benefits realized in flush-mounting the glide-path system are the elimination of parallax problems encountered by flight close in, and the elimination of hazards of antenna supporting masts and buildings near the runway. Potential use of the glide-path at low elevations is enhanced by the paralleling of the path limits during the last 600 feet of the flight path. The path limits cease to converge and maintain a constant value which provides tolerance especially necessary for pilot-controlled flights, while still maintaining sufficient margin of safety. This new glide-path system is completely compatible with the present airborne equipment, and only a minor addition to the transmatter need be made. Automatic servo monitoring is provided for maximum stability in addition to conventional fail-safe monitoring."
"Random process theory is applied to a number of typical problems encountered in the error analysis of inertial guidance systems and in the design of optimum error predicting filters for such systems. The applications of random process theory include: Measurement of system error autocovariance functions. An example of the measurement of a random drift rate process, constructed by the uniformly distributed sampling of a deterministic periodic function, is treated in detail. Estimation of velocity and position errors due to such basic error sources as gyro drift rate and accelerometer null shift. Design of optimum prediction filters for drift rate, attitude, velocity and position and for minimization of target miss distance. Treatment of hybrid inertial system error as a gated random process. The specific example is taken of drift angle increase between Poisson-distributed correction intervals for a Doppler inertial system."
"Random gyro drift, which is the uncorrectable drift that occurs in gyros, represents the major error input of inertial navigation systems that are required to operate over long time intervals. This random gyro drift must be taken into account whenever performing an error analysis or optimization study on such a system; otherwise, the results of the analysis or study would be meaningless. Random gyro drift can be taken into account by assuming the drift to be describable as a random process. Two mathematical models for random gyro drift, based on this assumption, are discussed and evaluated. The evaluation of these two models has as its basis actual gyro drift rate test data. Normally, such data are readily available. The first phase of the evaluation consists of a comparison of the model's description of the gyro drift process to statistics computed directly from test data. The second phase of the evaluation consists of a comparison of the rms navigation errors predicted using the model to actual rms navigation errors."
"Euler's dynamic equation is derived in vector-dyadic form for a three-degree-of-freedom gyro configuration. This equation is then simplified by means of two approximations which are compatible with practical gyro design. As angular displacements of the gyro gimbals are assumed to be small, such displacements are represented by vector angles. Spring torques, and torques due to viscous damping are formulated and added to the simplified dynamic equation. The over-all formulation is expressed in the form of a single second-order, linear differential equation of motion."
"This paper is directed to the problem of transmitter-receiver leakage rejection in CW and FMCW radars which employ stepped-scanning antennas. An IF carrier-elimination filter has been devised and analyzed which provides leakage-rejection capabilities limited only by leakage variations during stationary beam positions. Leakage rejection is provided by coherently reducing the signal to zero IF, rejecting the leakage components by a combination synchronous switch and high-pass filter, and remodulation onto a second IF carrier. The filter operates in a linear manner. Positive and negative senses of Doppler signals are retained. The spectrum of the input signal is faithfully reproduced in the output with the exception of a sharp notch at the input carrier frequency. In one configuration, the minimum notch bandwidth is limited by the on-time of each beam, and is approximately equal to one-half the reciprocal of this on-time. A more complex arrangement removes this restriction, permitting a minimum notch width which is limited only by the cutoff frequency of a high-pass RC filter. The simpler configuration has been used with the AN/APN-118 Doppler Navigation Radar, a system which was developed under contract with the U. S. Signal Corps, Fort Monmouth, N. J., by the Sperry Gyroscope Company."
"This paper describes a radar system in which a measure of range is obtained as the phase difference between amplitude modulations on the transmitter and echo signals. Significant features of this AM radar system are simplicity and capability of accurately measuring very short ranges. For instance, an experimental unit ranges from zero to 50 feet with maximum error of six inches."
"This paper describes several methods of phase modulation radar in which the Doppler effect provides a carrier for range information. It is shown that these methods yield simple radar systems capable of measuring both the range and the speed of a target down to essentially zero distance. In contrast to conventional radars, only a nominal transmission bandwidth is required even under conditions where the echo is much weaker than the direct transmitter to receiver leakage signal. Special emphasis is given to the case where the phase modulation on the radar signal is accompanied by a certain amount of incidental amplitude modulation. Even then, however, a simple radar system results, the operating principles of which are experimentally verified. It is thus indicated that range can be measured down to a few feet using a transmission bandwidth of less than 1 Mc."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the title page of the Physics of Failure in Electronics proceedings record."
"Copyright and Reprint Permissions: Abstracting is permitted with credit to the source. Libraries may photocopy beyond the limits of US copyright law, for private use of patrons, those articles in this volume that carry a code at the bottom of the first page, provided that the per-copy fee indicated in the code is paid through the Copyright Clearance Center. The papers in this book comprise the proceedings of the meeting mentioned on the cover and title page. They reflect the authors' opinions and, in the interests of timely dissemination, are published as presented and without change. Their inclusion in this publication does not necessarily constitute endorsement by the editors or the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A year ago at this time the curtain was ringing down on the last of three KIWI-A reactor experiments. The ROVER program had been aimed at reactor research and development, and a follow-on KIWI-B series of reactor ground tests was planned. The KIWI-A test results were most encouraging, and demonstrated certain key performance parameters as well as solutions to some critical design problems. Many of us were convinced a successful nuclear rocket engine could be built, but development of a safe, reliable flight propulsion system required that the resources of industry be applied to the many problems associated with the complete vehicle. We foresaw a saving in time if the planned KIWI-B reactor tests could be integrated into an engine development program. Several important decisions were required if the KIWI's were to lead to anything that might fly at the earliest possible time."
"Full utilization of the capability of advanced booster systems can only be realized if adequate auxiliary power units are integrated into the payload vehicle. Nuclear power units offer unique advantages for space application, - included are: compactness, light-weight, long reliable life, elimination of need for secondary batteries and sun orientation requirements, growth potential from hundreds of watts to megawatt range, and development of qualified units on a time scale that is consistent with present expected payload growth capability. Studies have shown solar cells and nuclear isotope auxiliary power systems have application in missions with power requirements up to a few hundred watts, solar dynamic and nuclear reactor systems are competitive for the sub-kilowatt to few kilowatt level; however, beyond this range compact reactor systems are the only feasible way of obtaining the power needs for advanced missions (Fig. 1). Compact reactors and power conversion equipment for space application have been under development for a number of years under AEC, NASA, and DOD sponsorship, where today three SNAP (Systems for Nuclear Auxiliary Power) reactor projects are now progranmed for early orbital flight testing. These are the 500 watt SNAP 10A, the 3Kw SNAP 2, and 30/60 Kw SNAP 8 systems. Advanced space systems capable of producing hundreds of kilowatts with extension into the megawatt range with less than 5 lbs/kw specific weight are now under study."
"Auxiliary power systems deriving their energy from radionuclide decay have been under development for more than five years under Atomic Energy Commission sponsorship. Called SNAP, the program has been oriented toward satisfying the need for small, compact, lightweight and reliable power supplies for space systems. Radioisotopic power relates to the generation of heat by absorption of electromagnetic and particulate radiations emitted by a carefully sealed source of radioisotopes. The heat is then partially converted into electricity by a thermoelectric or thermionic conversion device, with the remainder rejected to the external environment. It is the intent of this paper to present a status report on SNAP radioisotopic devices and to explore some of the unique aspects of the technical problems encountered. Since these power systems have no moving parts, they lend themselves appropriately to the performance of the following types of space missions: 1. Satellites operating on equatorial orbits where the continuous power demand exceeds the storage cycle capability. 2. Satellites operating for considerable periods of time in the Van Allen radiation belts where solar cell output is significantly degraded. 3. Lunar explorations, such as NASA's Surveyor program, where storage requirements during the lunar night become excessive. 4. Venus surveys where solar energy would be excluded by the atmosphere. 5. Space probes away from the sun where the decrease in solar flux becomes significant."
"We see nothing that would prevent our use of aerospace nuclear devices. On the other hand, we realize that much analytic, experimental and real test work must be accomplished to satisfy ourselves that the risks have been eliminated or appropriately minimized. Thus, we can see that the direction in which we are walking on this thermal tightrope is toward an increased operational flexibility. The availability of nuclear power will be one of the principal factors that will give man the capability to explore the great distances of space. The radiation risks associated with development and use of nuclear space systems are expected to be much less than the risks encountered in the development of such technological advances as electric power, the airplane or chemical rockets The added operational costs to achieve protection from these risks, though admittedly high, can be kept within reason. These costs, however, will be small as compared to the operational gains derived from employing nuclear power - for in many instances, the Job Just cannot be accomplished without the use of atomic energy."
"There is presented a brief technical discussion of ramjet propulsion thermodynamics. The more important controllable variables effecting thrust are described. Two important performance parameters used in the evaluation of jet engines are explained, thrust coefficient and specific impulse. These parameters are compared for chemically fueled and nuclear powered ramjets, rockets, and turbojets. Theoretical maximum performance, in terms of altitude and Mach number, are computed for an ideally low-drag ramjet vehicle incorporating a nuclear power plant. Considering present state of the art controls and materials limitations, some restrictions to the ideal performance envelope are shown."
"The present paper is in the nature of a status report on the performance and possible application to space missions of the thermal arc jet rocket engine. The following areas are discussed: 1. Arc Jet Operation and Performance 2. Preliminary Arc Jet System Considerations 3. Orbit Transfer of a 24-Hour Communications Satellite The paper includes discussions of electrode configuration, liquid versus radiation-cooled engines, and arc engine starting, and contains speculations on a battery-powered flight test, cryogenic versus noncryogenic propellants, and alternating versus direct-current arc jet operation."
"Start-up studies are reported considering first just the temperature coefficient of reactivity associated with the fuel temperature, and second, just the density coefficient of reactivity associated with the hydrogen density in a control region. Preliminary results are given of a non-simultaneous digital-analog study of start-up which utilizes a detailed digital code description of heat transfer and fluid dynamics, and an analog description of reactor kinetics and controls. Thrust maneuvering capabilities are explored and used as a basis for comparing control designs. Both fast and slow controllers capable of maintaining propellant exit temperature with + 50°R are discussed."
"Unmanned soft lunar landing experiments by the United States are currently being planned by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. All of these experiments will require some form of electrical power; and their success or failure will depend upon the development of a suitable, reliable electrical power generation system. The system utilized must be compact, lightweight and rugged. Certain requirements for such an experiment could be met by solar cell arrays. The reliability of solar cells has been well established; however, their usefulness for this mission is inherently limited. Experiments conducted during the lunar night require a large storage capacity, if solar energy is to be the spacecraft's only source of power. A radioisotope-fueled thermoelectric generator can fulfill all spacecraft power requirements continuously throughout the lunar day or night without special orientation. A radioisotope, such as Curium-242, may be used as the thermal energy source for a lunar experiment of short duration (90 to 120 days). Curium-242 does not occur in nature, but may be created by the neutron irradiation of Americium-241. This radioisotope requires very little radiation shielding to protect sensitive equipment, because of the low gamma flux associated with its decay. The rigors of the lunar \"climate\" produce an environment which present-day electronic equipment will not tolerate. By utilizing waste heat from the radioisotope generator, the electronics compartment temperature may be controlled within acceptable limits. All subsystems within the generator may be duplicated to improve its reliability."
"The problems associated with flux mapping in the Plum Brook Research Reactor, which employs an 18 plate Materials Testing Reactor type fuel element, are discussed fully. Design of a flux survey instrument is presented which, utilizing four solid state fission probes, makes it possible to map the complete Plum Brook core in a little over 6 hours, with the data presented in a form immediately available for analysis. Mapping a fuel element (from even 30 ft. above the core) does not require an accurate above water positioning system, yet a high degree of accuracy (±0.1 in.) in referencing in-core measurements has been obtained. The effect of radiation on the semiconductor detectors and the operating characteristics of the instrument, along with typical flux profiles obtained in mapping the Plum Brook Reactor are presented."
"Emphasis is placed on some unusual requirements for the reactor neutron power instrumentation for a rocket propulsion reactor. These are; 1) the requirement for accurate, fast automatic control over a dynamic range of many decades, 2) the unusual difficulties involved in detector location, 3) the requirement for absolute calibration prior to any chance of obtaining thermal power data. The first and third of these result from the fast startup requirement, the second from the light weight of the reactor. The instrumentation used at the Nevada Test Site is discussed in relation to these problems."
"A 4096 channel pulse-height analyzer has been constructed to exploit the high resolution attainable with semiconductor junction charged particle detectors in the 0 to 40 Mev range. The use of so large a number of channels can only be justified if the drift in the system can be held to less than one channel. It was felt that, using conventional techniques, it would be very difficult to stabilize the linear amplifier gain, the converter gain and the converter zero to a part in 4000. A servo-stabilized system was therefore adopted which assures long term system stability without imposing unreasonable restrictions on component stability. A stable pulse generator produces two reference pulses, one 8 times as large as the other, and presents them alternately to the preamplifier input along with the detector pulses. Reference and detector pulses are amplified and measured by the same analogue-to-digital converter. The small reference pulses should fall in channel 512 and the large pulses in channel 4096. The amounts by which the reference pulses miss their intended channels constitute the error inputs to two integrating digital servos. The large-pulse servo controls the converter clock frequency and the small-pulse servo controls the converter zero setting. The servos have sufficient lock-in range to compensate perfectly for gain changes of ± 3% and zero changes of ± 1.5%."
"Our objective was to design fission chambers capable of operating at high temperatures in reactor control, and consequently possessing the essential characteristics of extreme ruggedness for relativity high neutron sensitivity. In the following paper two types of chamber: one designed to operate at 400°C, and the other at 600°C, are described."
"This paper presents an overall picture of the Kiwi-A reactor control systems. The techniques of analysis and design of the control systems, the reactor power and propellant flow rate control hardware, the control system performance during tests, and special measurements made on the control systems to check analytical predictions are discussed. Problems presented by future reactors and some new control systems for these reactors are described."
"Power control systems for rocket propulsion reactors are unusual in that power must be increased several orders of magnitude in less than a minute. This paper describes the logarithmic power system developed at Los Alamos and used during the operation of Kiwi-A' and Kiwi-A3. Transfer functions are given for the system. Analog computer and experimentally measured data are presented showing the system response to step changes of logarithmic power demand, representative start-up programs, reactivity disturbances, and a rod-generated power excursion followed by a scram. The logarithmic power system had a bandwidth of one cps and a dynamic range of approximately six decades."
"The design and development of the rotational speed control for SNAP II has progressed to the point where experimental results have confirmed the present breadboard design approach. Frequency is controlled within ± 1% and all functional control specifications of the SNAP II system have been met. High temperature component testing has shown that basic components are available for operation at elevated temperatures (350°C) in most areas. High temperature diodes are still not available."
"The general Test Cell \"A\" facility - test cell and control building - is described. Particular attention is given to the use of closed loop controls, automatic programming methods and the use of analog simulation techniques at the Nevada Test Site. Use of this equipment in the KIWI-BlA test operation is described."
"In any conceptual design of a flight vehicle utilizing nuclear-type propulsion the amount of necessary shielding will detract from the allowable payload. The ability of electronic instruments to tolerate radiation and temperature extremes will then be of prime importance in these designs. This report describes the development and performance of a radiation and vibration tolerant instrument for use in the neutron flux control of a nuclear ramjet engine."
"A rocket vehicle with a nuclear propulsion system assumes the environment of the reactor: specifically, the high intensity neutron and gamma radiation fields. The rocket system considered here is a booster-type vehicle of approximately 1.25 million pounds. Reactor power requirements for the specified mission and the necessity of minimum shielding result in a neutron flux in excess of 6 × 1013 n/cm2-sec ten meters from the reactor core, and a gamma flux of approximately 1015 γ/cm2-sec at the same distance. The environment at the launch site is affected by intense gamma radiation from the reactor during reactor run-up, hold-down for systems check, and also for a short time after lift-off. In addition, there will be fission product release resulting in ground contamination, and gamma radiation in the air both vicinal to and remote from the launch site. Assuming that the reactor and booster vehicle are to be recovered, activation radiation induced in the structure, and fission product release from the shutdown reactor must be evaluated. The requirements for instrumentation around a nuclear rocket launch site are, indeed, many and diverse. The demands upon a monitoring and measurement system are constant at all times, and during nuclear operations are severe. Although the magnitudes of nuclear radiations shown here are prodigious, the problems presented by them are not insurmountable. This paper analyzes the various radiation environments, and outlines on-site and off-site radiation instrumentation requirements."
"This paper describes recent advances in electropneumatic control systems for aerospace nuclear propulsion. The capabilities, limitations, and recognized problem areas are defined and reviewed, and reasons for the selection of this type of control systems are discussed. The potential of electropneumatic control systems for broader aerospace applications is discussed, where less emphasis may be placed on environmental restrictions but more emphasis on minimum weight, greatest hardware simplicity, integration and self-containment of the control system and power package, and long-term storage capability. The paper is concluded by outlining the further development effort required to realize the described potential."
"This paper discusses major problem areas encountered in the design, construction, and development of a servo actuator system for positioning the control rods of a nuclear ramjet engine test reactor. The actuator discussed is 40 inch linear stroke, electropneumatic servo actuator capable of operating throughout the temperature range of 70°F to 1200°F part temperature, using air as the power supply, with temperatures ranging from 70°F to 1060°F. The discussion covers major components as well as the complete actuator assembly. Important details of the mechanical design and selection of materials are presented together with a summary of the measured. performance levels. The component and system test programs are described. Life data based on testing under the specified, room and high temperature environment conditions, is presented."
"Feasibility of servo operation, with supply gas and average part temperatures over 1000°F, for periods over two hours is well established. Performance required for vernier rod control in the Tory II-C reactor was nearly achieved with the first prototype design. Analytical study revealed characteristics of the pneumatic valve and motor significant in designing performance into systems of this type, and modifications to a roomtemperature motor predict improved resolution and dynamic stiffness for the second design. Analog model studies show the effects of supply-to-ambient pressure-ratio variation on valve-motor characteristics are tolerable for Tory II-C reactor controls."
"An expression is developed relating fission product residence time to fission product mass number for a hypothetical gas core vortex reactor. Utilizing the expression and considering that the fission products, Kr-87, Br-87, Kr-93, I-137, arid I-138, are also delayed neutron precursors, a modified effective delayed neutron fraction is calculated for U-233, U-235, and Pu-239 fueled cores. Temperature coefficients for the referene cores are developed as functions of reflector temperature, assuming a Maxwellian neutron spectrum. Utilizing these power coefficients and the modified effective delayed neutron fractions, the consequences of reactivity perturbations in the reference cores are analyzed. It is shown that optimally moderated gaseous fission cores should possess a high degree of inherent stability."
"A unique data acquisition system has been developed to cope with the problems of testing Kiwi Reactors in the Rover Program. This uniqueness is due to the large number of parameters measured, the extremely high reliability and accuracy requirements, extreme requirements for system flexibility, and the wide ranges of parameters. The requirement for up to 1,500 simultaneous measurements with one-percent system accuracy requires automation of checkout, monitoring, and calibration, and demands special design, modification, and maintenance of otherwise routine components. Calibrations are required to hold for many hours on all components. Data are transmitted via a two-mile hardwire system."
"The general requirements for the clock generator can now be listed as follows: 1. Circuitry must be radiation resistant. 2. A single source generator should be used. 3. The circuitry should be such that; a. The initial voltage rise can be controlled. b. The plus and minus voltages are mirror images. c. The magnitude of the voltage is very accurately controlled at the time information is transferred to the next stage. The data in the next section were taken using a clock generator which was designed to meet these requirements."
"Although a large amount of data is available on the temperature and radiation effects on electronic components, it does not contain the necessary engineering information that can be found for the more conventional space electronics design. For nuclear applications, the electronics designer needs information on a much greater number of components because of the wide range of temperature and radiation environments. A coordinated development and reliability program should be started now to assure the usefulness of nuclear propulsion and space power by providing the necessary reliable components and the engineering design information required to design the electronic equipment."
"Liquid Hydrogen is used as a propellant for Project Rover nuclear-powered rocket engines. An instrumentation system is described which measures, records and displays vertical temperature profiles in two 50,000 gallon liquid hydrogen dewars. Platinum-resistance thermometers in each dewar are sampled sequentially. Measurements are digitized, printed, transmitted by PCM for remote recording, and reconverted to analog form for real-time graphical display. Measuring ranges are 30 to 460 degrees Rankine (OR), with 1% absolute accuracy, and 30 to 53°R, with 0.5% absolute accuracy."
"Tungsten/tungsten-rhenium thermocouples have been successfully used for various hydrogen gas temperature measurements in the Kiwi-A reactors of the Rover nuclear propulsion program. The most useful combination for these thermocouples has been tungsten coupled with a tungsten-25 weight percent rhenium alloy. This alloy exhibits a solidus temperature slightly over 3100°C., has considerably more room temperature ductility than tungsten, and yields an electromotive force of about 40 millivolts against tungsten at 2300°C. In one design 60 mil W and W-Re wires are pressed and swaged into a tungsten block. The wires are passed through an insulated pressure seal. The time response of the thermocouple is in the one second range. These thermocouples may be used in an automatic exit gas temperature control system in some subsequent Rover tests."
"The term uncertainty is used rather than instability. Stability implies that a device can be calibrated to a known and repeatable small error. As will be shown for the temperatures considered, this definition of stability may not be true. Two configurations of platinum/platinum-10% rhodium thermocouples were developed for the Tory II reactors. The manufacturer checked outputs at 2400°F. Subsequently, we ran tests between 2000 and 2400°F to determine how dependable the initially measured outputs were. The uncertainty turned out to be about ±10°F, over the rather narrow test band. As a result of these first uncertainty tests, we decided to see what effect, if any, different types of junctions have on the uncertainty. This report has to do primarily with results of tests on crimped, twisted, hydrogen-arc-welded, and resistance-welded junctions. A horizontal tube furnace was used from 1500 to 2300°F and a vertical tube furnace from 2300 to 2800°F. Some unexplained things happened when the transfer to the vertical tube furnace was made. Reference grade, 10-mil thermocouple wire with alumina tube insulation was used for most tests. In general, the uncertainty shows up as an error band of fairly constant width. This means that it cannot be expressed as a percent of indicated temperature. The band width tends to become narrower with increasing temperature up to 2300°F or so; 20°F is still a \"good\" figure for it at 2300°F. Hydrogen-arc welding should be avoided. The importance of an annealing cycle to test temperature is shown by the curves."
"This paper presents some of the results of programs being carried on at the Flight Control Laboratory, Aeronautical Systems Division, W-PAFB, O., in the development of techniques to design and evaluate high temperature radiation resistant Flight Control Systems. Sources of radiation environment being investigated are nuclear powered vehicles, nuclear bomb detonations, and space radiation. To date, tests performed in actual reactor environments indicate the feasibility of designing Flight Control Systems for certain nuclear applications. The results of programs to develop high temperature radiation resistant Flight Control components and systems such as synchros, pressure transducers, accelerometers, temperature amplifiers, tachometers, electronics, inertial components, and control systems indicates further work is necessary to meet all environmental criteria encountered in nuclear applications."
"This experiment surveyed some parameter changes of several types of semiconductor devices exposed to a reactor radiation environment. Twelve irradiated and eight control specimens from production stock of two diode and eleven transistor types constituted the experimental groups. The experimental region of the reactor was initially flux mapped, and a flux determination was made for each irradiation. The total dose was about 1014 fast neutrons/cm2 and 108 ergs/gm(c) of gamma rays. Measurement of electrical parameters before, during, and after irradiation indicated a tolerance limit for some devices. The most radiation-resistant transistors measured were silicon double-diffused mesa units types 2N702 and 2N726, and germanium diffused-base mesa units types 2N710 and 2N797. Voltage regulator and switching diodes were hardly affected. Radiation tolerance was greater in the devices with a narrow base region. The increase in tolerable dose with increasing gain-band-width product is less for germanium than for silicon. There appears to be only a small difference between silicon and germanium in allowable dose for very-high-frequency devices."
"High temperature thermistors, 100°C to 600°C, were tested before, during, and after irradiation in the Ground Test Reactor at The Nuclear Aerospace Research Facility, General Dynamics/Fort Worth. The radiation environment was held constant at 2.2 × 1010 nf/cm2-sec (nf = fast neutrons with energy> 2.9 Mev) and 4.2 × 108 ergs/ gm(C) hr γ for a period of 91 hours. Resistance as a function of temperature was measured for high, medium, and low resistance type thermistors. No permanent damage was observed, but transient effects were severe at high resistance values. The transient effects were due to ionization of the air and the thermistor material by the nuclear environment. The ionic conduction in the thermistor material was highly temperature dependent."
"One technique of using nuclear energy for propulsion of a rocket system involves the use of a fission reactor as a heat source for a combination coolant-propellant. One of the factors that will influence the performance of this type of vehicle will be the radiation resistance of the materials, parts, and components that are used in its design. Another important factor is the effect of nuclear radiation on materials at cryogenic temperatures. This paper presents a discussion on the effects of nuclear radiation on materials exposed to a cryogenic environment. Sealing materials, lubricants, thermal insulation, and structural materials are discussed with respect to radiation stability. Some experimental data on the effects of simultaneous exposure of metals to nuclear radiation and cryogenic temperatures are also presented."
"Recent technological advances in the utilization of nuclear energy as a weapon and nuclear reactors as propulsion systems and in other applications have resulted in imposing severe radiation environments on automatic control systems. The work described in this paper concerns the design and testing of electronic circuits which comprise these systems. By special design the nuclear radiation damage thresholds of these circuits were raised from 1014 to 1017 fast neutrons/cm2. The nuclear environment in which the circuits were tested was generated by a 3-megawatt ground test reactor, the integrated dose over a 100-hour period being approximately 5×1016 fast neutrons/cm2. Twenty of the twenty-four circuits tested were operating properly at the termination of the test."
"The guidance and control system that is considered for analysis is a programmed inertial guidance unit with an astro-tracker for space coordinate corrections. For most missions the effects of space radiations on systems will be trivial; however, Van Allen radiation and solar flares can increase the dark current on the astro-tracker sensing element. Reactor radiation from the main propulsion system will cause degradation of: electrical wiring in servo valves, semiconductor electronics in the computer system, seals in the hot gas actuators, and solid or liquid propellent gas generators. Combinations of judicious material selection, design modifications, relocation of systems, and shielding will alleviate problems associated with the guidance and control systems operating in a nuclear environment."
"A number of computing and control type magnetic amplifiers, operating from 4800 and 400 cps power sources, were designed to withstand radiation levels in excess of 1015 nvt (fast neutron). They were functionally tested and continuously monitored during such a radiation exposure. The circuits incorporated features to compensate for a factor increase of 500 in diode reverse current. Half of the amplifiers used a conventional IN538 diffused silicon junction diodes and the other half used special radiation resistant, thin based, silicon junction diodes. The results show that the combination of radiation resistant rectifiers together with the experimental design techniques can provide reliable radiation resistant computing and control cirguitry for fast neutron levels approaching 1016 nvt."
"The nuclear enviroment to be encountered in testing and operating nuclear rocket engines makes the development of reliable instrumentation imperative. A limited program of testing various types of transducers has been undertaken at LASL. A description of the methods and facilities used is followed by detailed descriptions of tests carried out at LASL on various types of pressure-actuated devices. Techniques which may prove effective in improving instrmuent reliability are mentioned, and plans for further research and development in this area are discussed. In conclusion, the nature and scope of the problem are again referred to, with emphasis being made on the need for a better definition of the problem and a greater effort toward its solution."
"The classicial optimization calculations are extended in case of an electric multistage propulsion system. That which consists in utilizing an energy generator composed of many elements, some of which are jettisoned during the trip. It is shown that the performances are thus increased when the payload is less than 1/4 of the initial total mass. Also reliability is increased. A simplification of the optimization calculations, as well as the discussion of it, is obtained by using non-dimensional variables; thus the number of independent parameter is decreased from 3 to 1."
"A cardinal principle of nuclear ramjet powered missile flight tests is full-time, radar tracking and radio-command control of the missile's flight path supplemented by multiple, fail-safe flight termination systems to maintain the missile within a localized test area where nuclear radiation will not endanger the civilian population. The number of range stations to fulfill this service would become excessive if surface stations were used due to radio-line-of-sight limitations. Airborne range stations represent the best solution; and, under certain conditions of very low altitude flight, the only practical approach to fulltime tracking and control. A turbojet airplane of the Boeing C-135 type suitably equipped with radar, telemetry receivers, radio-command control and communications equipment can function as an independent command control center or as a relay station between the missile and a surface control center. This flexibility of operation enhances the reliability of the overall range system. Existing range technology is adequate; however, integration of functions with a high degree of reliability onboard a single airplane is necessary."
"The nuclear rocket engine is required to start or change power levels in very short times. This requires that limitations on fast transients be well known and the transient flow and power schedules designed to avoid these limitations. At the same time it is desired that the schedules allow the least use of propellant at other than the maximum specific impulse. Limitations on reactor transients as a result of heat transfer phenomenon consist of thermal stresses, flow choking in the reflector or core cooling passages, laminar flow instability, and two phase flow into the core resulting in unpredictable reactor power perturbations. Studies have been made showing the effect of power and flow schedules on the maximum fuel temperature and the propellant exit temperature. The model used for calculation consists of a single flow channel and its accompanying material for both the reflector and the core. Computations performed for increase and decrease in thrust show the effect of the power schedule leading or lagging the flow schedule. It is found that the power schedule should lead the flow schedule on an increase of thrust and lead it on a decrease of thrust if it is desired to hold a constant propellant exit temperature. If for some reason propellant flow to the reactor is instantaneously lost and the reactor is scrammed, it is shown that flow must be resumed in adequate amounts for cooling within 1 second or damage to the core will result."
"The Outside Test Tank is the only nuclear shielding test facility in the United States suitable for investigating the nuiclear characteristics of shadow shield geometries such as will be required to protect components and man near nuclear systems operating in outer space. The OTT is designed so that only the radiation of interest, that is, neutrons and gamma rays penetrating or originating in the shadow shield materials, is measured. No radiation is measured that is scattered by air or ground. The only radiation that reaches the detectors penetrates shield components on the direct line of sight between the test reactor, the shield, and the test radiation detectors. The design and operation of the Outside Test Tank are described. Problems encountered during testing are discussed, as are the instruments and devices used to measure neutron and gamma ray dose rates and fluxes. A number of unusual phenomena that were discovered are examined. Tested configurations included such high temperature shielding materials as W and LiH. In summary, the information presented in this paper proves that realistic evaluation of actual nuclear shadow shield configurations can be made conveniently and relatively inexpensively without having to test in the vacuum of outer space. The data measured in the Outside Test Tank clearly demonstrate that the design of efficient shadow shields for space nuclear systems is not nearly as straightforward as has been suggested."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A theory outlining the mechanism of the low pressure hydrogen plasma used in radio frequency proton sources is given. Taking into account secondary emission from surfaces of plasma vessel it is shown that the electron density is maximum at the tube's center. This is confirmed experimentally, and a source is designed with its extraction electrode positioned radially near the plasma center. Compared with axial extraction used in conventional r.f. sources, radial extraction yields beam currents over 20% higher, and allows the application of higher extraction voltages. Beam currents up to 150 Ma. can be extracted, of which more than 85%, is proton current. Two methods are used for the measurement of the emittance of the accelerated beam."
"The high power distributed amplifier system for the Princeton-Pennsylvania Accelerator employs a total of 166 Eimac 4CX300A tetrodes to achieve an average power gain of 5000. The system is designed to work over a range of frequencies of 2.5 to 30Mc/s, but is capable of amplifying 60 Mc/s at a reduced duty cycle. The high level stages of the system limit the effective duty cycle to 25%, at the normal range of frequencies. Design criteria and practice are discussed."
"A phase error detecting system designed for the RF system of the 3-Bev Princeton-Pennsylvania Proton Synchrotron is described. It serves as a link in the servo loop to keep ferrite tuned RF load to track the driving signal which sweeps from 2.5 to 30 mc/s at repetition rate of 20 cps. The input signals are shifted to a constant intermediate frequency of 455 kc/s by mixing with a specially generated tracking signal. Limiting, phase shifting, and the phase detection are all done at 455 kc/s. Its output phase lag for phase modulation frequency below 50 kc/s is less than 90°. It has a usable range of 40 db input variation. Zero output accuracy is ± 2° for the range of 20 db input variation. All circuits, except the tracking signal generator are transistorized."
"Part I A mathematical presentation of linear accelerator fundamental design parameters leads to optimization formulae for X-ray output and operational stability. A narrow spread of electron energies is desirable in most linear accelerator applications and especially when post-acceleration beam bending is utilized to project a stable high energy X-ray beam at right angles to the accelerator waveguide. Part II Some consideration is given to electron source optics and an analysis of a chopped prebunched injection system is presented together with a comparison of different types of buncher design with emphasis on obtaining narrow energy spectrum small cross-section electron beams. A method of analysing prebunched injection current and buncher acceptance characteristics is described"
"An external beam-bunch selector has been built to modulate the beam of the NASA 60-inch cyclotron for neutron time-of-flight studies. Electrostatic deflection at one-fourth the cyclotron frequency is used to lengthen the beam burst period, so that longer flight times can be used. The design and performance of this apparatus are described. With this equipment, flight times up to 400 nanoseconds are available, without distortion of the cyclotron beam burst width. Energy resolutions of the order of 2 percent are thus possible."
"The design features of an induction electron accelerator which is under construction at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory at Livermore, California, are described. The basic parameters are beam energy 4 Mev, beam current 200 amperes, pulse length 0.25 μsec, repetition rate 60 per second. The design beam quality is to be <10-2 radian-cm and the energy spread is to be ±0.5% during the useful part of the pulse. The accelerator consists of a gun whose output is 720 kev, followed by six modular units of 570-kev output each. Several unique components have been developed for use on this machine; among them are a 10-inch-diameter cathode and an accelerating column made of metal-ceramic seals 14 inches in diameter for use on the gun. This accelerator is being constructed for use in experiments on the \"Astron\" concept for heating and containing hot plasma."
"A 1000-megawatt peak-power linear electron accelerator is required for the injection of electrons into a thermonuclear fusion experimental device, called the Astron, which is now under construction at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory in Livermore, California. The Astron will determine the feasibility of an actual power-producing fusion reactor utilizing the principles of confinement and heating of a plasma by establishing a long rotating layer of relativistic electrons. The linear electron accelerator under construction is designed to produce a pulsed electron beam with an energy of 5 Mev ±0.5%, a pulse current of 200 amperes, with a pulse duration of 0.25 μsec and at 60 pulses per second. The accelerator will be of the induction type utilizing large magnetic cores. Approximately 400 cores will be used and each one will contribute a minimum acceleration of 12,000 volts. The details of the design and development of a line-type modulator used for pulsing cores and capable of an output peak power of 36 megawatts will be discussed in detail. A type 6587 and type 5949A thyratron were life-tested at 32 kv, 2000 amperes, and 60 pps. Useful life in excess of 1000 hours was obtained. In addition, it was necessary to develop corona-resistant connectors for this application. Life data and final design for a small connector suitable for operation at 16-kv, 0.4-μsec (70% amplitude points) pulses with 60-nanosecond rise time, and at 60 pps are presented."
"For controlled thermonuclear devices of moderate volume employing externally applied magnetic fields, the magnetic energy requirements extend into the megajoule range. A high-voltage series-parallel bank of electrolytic capacitors can supply this energy reliably and inexpensively. The total cost of the bank, including charging supplies, controls, and labor, is less than 14 cents per joule. Required floor space, including access and service area, is about 250 ft2/Mj. A 5-kv electrolytic bank storing 150 kj has been in routine operation since 1958, and is currently being extended to 1 Mj. The bank is composed of 80 modular 12.5 kj sections, each module being a 12-by-12 series-parallel array of 1000-μf 450-v, standard electrolytic capacitors. Each module has its own charging, switching, and fault-sensing circuits. Including external voltage dividers and internal leakage current, about 24w/kj is required to maintain the bank at full voltage. Normal one - quarter cycle discharge times are in the millisecond range with repetition rates ranging from one-half to 15 or more per minute, depending on the external circuit. Capacitor life is measured in years, is dependent upon the time required for the electrolyte to dry out, and is virtually unaffected by the operating schedule of the bank. Flexibility in the usage of the bank is ensured by having multiple output-switching ignitrons in each module. Sequencing and control circuitry provides for time-sharing of the bank by up to five users, each having independent control of bank capacity and voltage."
"The Scylla experimental program has shown that a small volume of high temperature (>107°K) plasma can be produced by the application of a fast-rising, sinusoidal, axial magnetic field to a volume of partially ionized deuterium gas. The apparatus described was designed to produce a plasma with the same final density and temperature as in a net energy-producing plasma but for a much shorter containment time. However, the magnetic half period will be of sufficient length to allow the stability problem to be studied thoroughly. The engineering aspects of the 3.5 Mjoule experiment, Scylla IV, are discussed in detail. The basic problems in the design are those of minimizing the source inductance, providing electrical insulation for tens of kilovolts and providing transmission systems and switches capable of handling currents of 20 to 30 megamperes. The design of the capacitor banks, switching system, cabling and cable headers, and collector plates is described."
"The use of either nuclear reactor or radioisotope powerplants in space requires nuclear radiation shielding for personnel and equipment. When certain approximations are valid, a simplified method permits rapid shield design. The equations for two-layer and three-layer shields are presented, and the limitations of the equations are indicated."
"The application of statistics to the measurement of random signals, with particular emphasis on count-rate-meters, is considered. It is shown that under certain criteria, there are optimum values of time constants in the countrate-meter circuit that will produce the desired results. While the emphasis is placed on the count-rate-meter, the same approach can be used to measure signals in the presence of noise where RC type smoothing is present."
"In a simple image tube in which the uniformly accelerated electrons are focused by a homogeneous magnetic field onto the phosphor, the error in focusing due to the aribtrary initial velocity of the photoelectrons is calculated. It is shown that optimm resolution can be obtained if focusing is adjusted for electrons leaving the cathode at the average initial forward velocity. A method to measure the initial average transverse velocity in the tube itself is developed. A practical formula for the expected resolution is derived (see Equation 12) for tubes with S-11 photocathodes and for the incident light coming from a slightly underheated incandescent lamp."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A brief biography of Richard W. Johnston is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The intrinsic resolution or minimum line width attainable in NaI(TI) spectrometers can now be set at 5-6% for 662 KeV gamma-rays from Cs-137. Work leading to this conclusion is reviewed. Pressure effects and directional effects in sodiuam iodide which support the exciton energy transport theory (Seitz model) are reported. Also, decay time., temperature coefficient (-0.12% OC), and non-proportional scintillation response in NaI(TI) are reported. Studies of the CsI(Tl) emission spectra and decay time constants as functions of temperature and dE/dx are reported. Separation of alpha from gamma-ray events by color discrimination as well as by pulse shape discrimination is described. A statistical method of measuring decay time constants over a wide range of intensity during decay is presented in an appendix."
"An additive has been found which converts liquid propane into a liquid scintillator solution. This solution has been used in a bubble chamber to assoc iate photographed interactions in the chamber with externally developed coincidence pulses. Techniques and applications are discussed. Bubble chambers have proved themselves very capable of recording precise geometrical information concerning high energy interactions involving charged particles. Provided that such particles have ranges of more than a few millimeters in the chamber liquid, their directions of flight over a 4π solid angle, their ranges, and in favorable cases their magnetic curvatures and ionizations may all be determined from measurements of chamber photographs. Secondary interactions, multiple scattering, and knock-on electrons are also in general quite apparent. In so far as one may choose the chamber liquid to be hydrogen, deuterium, helium, hydrocarbon, or one containing heavy nuclei one can in many sorts of experiment also control the entire input to an observed high energy reaction in the chamber. A major chamber limitation is in the time coordinate. A bubble chamber photographs in one, perhaps cluttered, picture everything that occurs over a period of the order of milliseconds, and it can do this at most only a few times a second, more commonly every couple of seconds. Moreover one must decide to expand the chamber and use up the relatively expensive opportunity to photograph before it can be determined whether an interesting particle entered or an interesting interaction occurred in the chamber."
"A thorough investigation of the response of NaI(Tl) in the region below 50 kev was made using a continuous distribution of X-rays from a tungsten target as well as monoenergetic gamma rays from radioactive sources. The results of this investigation agree well with those of Engelkemeir.1 The investigation also showed that below 20 kev NaI(Tl) is sensitive to surface treatment. Above 20 kev the response is independent of surface treatment as long as the surface is free of moisture. An electron response curve is shown which, when used with the decay scheme of the excited iodine atom, predicts the observed nonlinear response NaI(Tl) to low energy X-and)x-rays."
"This paper reports a series of experiments on the pulse-height response of CsI(Tl) crystals to monoenergetic gammas, protons, and alphas, in an effort to examine some predictions of a previously proposed model of the scintillation process. Analysis of the data to date indicates the following: The pulse height per unit energy for gammas is an energy-dependent function which reaches a maximum near 20 keyr, and the shape of this function is sensibly independent of Ti concentration. The pulse height per unit energy for protons and alphas is found to be energy dependent throughout the energy range studied. For alphas this function passes through a distinct minimum near 1 Mev. Effects dependent on pulse clipping time are discussed."
"Experimental results from Yale indicate that the scintillation efficiency of inorganic crystals to heavy particles is not a function of dE/dx alone but is instead composed of a series of discrete functions, one for each incident particle. This paper presents an analysis of these experimental results with attention to the effect of delta rays produced by the primaxy particle. In this treatment the total light emitted per unit path length of the primary is the sum of two contributions: one from the saturation column of the primary particle, and one from those energetic secondary electrons (delta rays) which escape the saturation column and produce light with a high efficiency."
"An experimental study has been made of some factors that determine the pulse height resolution of scintillation counter assemblies. A statistical model is developed from which an analytic expression for the ideal line shape is obtained. Excellent agreement is found with observations using an artificial light pulser. A comparison is made between noncrystalline organic scintillators and a sodium iodide crystal of similar size. It is shown that for gamma-ray detection, an important contribution to line-width originates with variations in the light collection efficiency from different regions of the scintillator."
"Sodium Iodide activated with thallium was used as the detector in a scititillation counter. The scintillating crystals were stressed with the intention of introducing oislocations and observing whether or not there was any measurable effect on the scintillation enercy resolution intrinsic to the crystal. The photopeak was fitted to a gaussian curve to determine accurately the full width at half maximum. The results suggest that dislocations have a significant and detectable effect on the resolution."
"The relative pulse height for all alkali iodide crystals, with and without activation, in response to alpha particles and protons was measured as a function of the incident particles energy at both liquid nitrogen and room temperatures. In all cases the response curve is linear for protons of an energy range from 1 to 10 Mev, linear for alpha particles of high energies, but clearly nonlinear generally below 15 Mev. The response curve of activated crystals at liquid nitrogen temperature is generally flatter than that at room temperature. Unactivated crystals have a unique response only at liquid nitrogen temperature. For all crystals the proton scintillation efficiency curve lies slightly below the linear portion of the alpha particles curve. A sharp change in dL/dE is observed in the region of 130 < dE/dx < 160 kev/mg-cm-2, indicating a threshold for a process which has a decreased probability of exciting luminescence."
"The results of the computation of the scintillation and fluorescence properties of 22 aromatic conjugated systems are presented. Some of these are expected to have superior properties to those in use at present. A new scintillation solute, 1,4-bis-(p-isopropylstyryl)-benzene, when used as a secondary solute in a p-terphenyl solution in xylene, has an efficiency higher than 80% on the anthracene scale."
"This paper is primarily concerned with the development of high speed photomultiplier tubes designed for nuclear physics research applications. The significant characteristics and parameters influencing the performance of high speed tubes are discussed with particular emphasis to rise time, transit time fluctuations, high gain and linearity throughout a wide range of anode currents. The performance of the well-known types 56AVP and 58AVP are described and in addition, a new tube type XP1020 which provides many outstanding features with regard to high speed performance. Finally, standard types for gamma ray spectrometry, low energy beta particle and soft X-ray detection are briefly discussed."
"A family of three photomultipliers designed for good pulse height resolution has been developed. Photomultipliers for scintillation counting under severe environmental conditions have been produced and additional types are under development. The introduction of new window materials and sealing techniques has led to tubes sensitive in the far ultraviolet. Several types giving improved high speed performance are under development."
"Direction of multiplier phototube activity is described, indicating a variety of special products. Pulse height resolution with related parameters are reviewed, and the performance spread in production runs of types 6292 and 6363 is discussed. Characteristics of a new high gain tube type are presented in some detail."
"A discussion on a variety of special types of photomultipliers shall be presented. Among these will be the CBS type CL-1090, 14-stage, high speed, low dark current type and the 5-inch ruggedized photomultiplier. Also to be presented are new developments in special type dynode multipliers and large area, high current photomultipliers. Recent developments in vacuum type neutron detectors shall be discussed briefly."
"This paper describes the \"ASCOP\" line of photomultipliers derived from the design for Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation which was presented at the last Scintillation Counter Symposium. High-temperature photomultipliers of various sizes are now in production and are used extensively in oil well radioactivity logging. Resolution measurements up to 165°C have been made with NaI(Tl) crystals and a CRT light pulser. A complete line of photomultipliers for the far ultraviolet is described, including tubes with LiF windows up to 2\" in diameter. Cs-Sb cathodes or spectrally selective\" solar-blind\" Cs-Te cathodes are used. Photomultipliers for scintillation counting range from 3\" to 11/4\" in diameter. They combine good cathode sensitivity and uniformity, good electron collection and low dark current. Resolution data are presented. Tubes of this type have been successfully used for scintillation counting in various earth satellites."
"The time-response of high-gain transmission-type dynodes using KC1 in the form of a low density layer is investigated. Both the results using light-pulses and charged particles directly incident on these dynodes indicate no detectable time lag within the limits of the experimental method (< 0.5 × 10-9 sec). The number of emitted secondaries under the impact of α-particles and electrons confirms the theoretical expectation that the yield is proportional to the rate of energy loss per unit distance, dE/dx. The results indicate that transmissive dynodes of the low density type with yields between 50-100 secondaries per incident 5 kev electron can be used both for high-speed electron multiplication and direct detection of nuclear particles without the use of scintillators."
"Thin films of semiconducting materials with secondary electron emission ratios greater than one have been used for some years in the Bendix crossed electric and magnetic field electron multiplier for ion detection. In these devices the electric field to accelerate the electrons is established by the potential gradient created by external current flowing through the resistive strip. A low background counting rate, insensitivity to radiation in the visible and near ultraviolet, and stability on exposure to atmospheric gases are properties which permit this device to have interesting photon detection applications in the extreme ultraviolet in dynamic vacuum systems and outer space environment. A new form of electron multiplier utilizing continuous thin film surfaces, but not requiring a magnetic field, has been developed. Small diameter tubes (a few mils I.D.) coated on the inside surface give gains up to 106. This \"channel\" multiplier has been operated singly as a miniature electron or photon detector, and in arrays in image intensifiers. The principle of operation and some applications of these channel amplifiers will be discussed."
"A large number of transmission secondary emission image intensifiers to the basic design, described by Wilcock et al, have now been constructed and the performance data obtained from these tubes is summarised. Based on this information a tube of improved performance has been designed incorporating a larger dynode area and most recently a multialkali photocathode. The preliminary performance data on a number of these tubes with respect to resolution and dark current is reported. The results of measurements of the operational fatigue of this type of tube are also described."
"The tubes to be described are of the transmission secondary emission type. Electrons from a tri-alkali photo-cathode are accelerated and focused on to a series of dynodes where multiplication takes place by transmitted secondary emission. The electrons from the final dynode are then focused on to the output phosphor."
"Our measurements of the amplitude distribution of photomultiplier anode pulses due to the emission of single-electrons from the cathode consistently show a peak. It is significant that the peak position agrees with that of a calculated distribution based on a Poisson distribution of secondary electrons at each dynode. The integral distribution, obtained by counting single-electron pulses, tends to show a plateau. In low-light-level counting applications, one can set the discriminator so that a majority of photomultiplier single-electron pulses will be counted. Further increase in the sensitivity will eventually increase the noise rate faster than the counting efficiency. The techniques for measuring photomultiplier single-electron statistics are useful for obtaining comparative collection efficiencies. By single-electron measurements, one can adjust focusing-electrode potentials to maximize overall collection efficiency. It is believed that there is some correlation be. tween the amplitude and time distributions. Further work is necessary to show the extent of the correlation."
"The theoretical and experimental characteristics of semiconductor particle detectors have been discussed at several conferences. The purpose of this paper is to discuss some of the recent results obtained with conventional p-n and surface-barrier detectors as well as to indicate the performance of ion-drifted p-i-n and high-resistivity gallium-arsenide and silicon \"conductivity\" detectors. The operation of conventional devices in regard to resolution and stability measurements, the existence of a fission fragment energy defect, irradiation effects, and base resistivity variations is discussed. The response, resolution, and rise time of p-i-n detectors (depletion widths from 1 to 5 mm) are presented along with some of the factors influencing the characteristics of the ion-drift process. Work with high-resistivity gallium-arsenide and silicon detectors has shown the influence of recombination processes. The limitations and further improvements in these devices are indicated."
"Significant progress has been made during the past year toward realizing the very great potential of semiconductor detectors in nuclear research; this paper will review this progress, together with brief reference to relevant earlier work. Representative fields where major advances have been recorded are those of electron and high energy heavier charged particle detection using Lithium drifted and other thick depletion layer devices, neutron detection studies, nuclear astrophysical research where the low mass, size, and power requirements are of paramount importance, focal plane studies with magnetic spectrographs involving multi-channel semiconductor systems, nuclear reaction product isotope identification with both hybrid gas and semiconductor detectors and with all semiconductor systems, high efficiency particle detection with large area mosaic detectors, and fission and other studies in high ambient neutral radiation fields where the junctions have unique advantages. Further applications are suggested."
"A semiconductor nuclear particle detector fabricated by alloying or diffusing p+ layers and n+ layers into opposite faces of a slab of very high resistivity p-type silicon results in a device with several advantages over the conventional semiconductor detector structure. In the n+ i p+ structure, the space charge region extends throughout the entire silicon wafer upon application of a few volts bias and since further increases in bias do not appreciably change the width of the space charge region, the capacitance approaches a constant value. The series resistance of such a structure is very low and the collection time is exceedingly short, limited only by the applied field and the high field mobility of the carriers. Experimental data on collection time versus applied bias for several different nuclear particles as well as the characteristics of the unit in a low noise detector-amplifier system are presented."
"The detector window thicknesses for carrier gas diffusions have been found to be very close to 1/2 the diffusion depths. This result is interpreted in terms of the concentration profile of the diffusant. In the surface region, where the impurity concentration is greater than 1018 per c.c., the carrier lifetime becomes so small that ionized charges recombine before they can diffuse to the junction. With reduced surface concentrations, window thicknesses of less than 1/2 the diffusion depth have been fabricated, but good voltage rating diodes with a window thickness of less than 0.1 micron (.025 mg/cm2) are yet to be realized. For all diffusion depths a non-noise resolution limit of devices has been observed which corresponds to approximately 1/3 the energy loss of an incident particle in the window layer of diodes. For paint-on diffusion detectors, the nominal 900°C - 10 minutes - 0.1 microns diffusion units have measured window thicknesses of about 0.3 microns. For the process studied it appears that an excessive amount of phosphorus is incorporated into the surface layer."
"Thin diffused-Junction counters bave been developed suitable for use as ΔE/Δx detectors. Counters ranging in thickness from 0.0005 inch to 0.0025 inch and in area up to 1.0 inch diameter have been fabricated by a process allowing a variety of counter shapes a well as good dimensional control. Tests with the 22-Mev alpha beam of the Indiana University cyclotron indicate satisfactory ΔE/Δx detection over a range of alpha particle energies from 22 Mev to below 7 Mev. Fabrication techniques will be discussed. Some results will be presented to illustrate the application of these ΔE/Δx detectors to nuclear spectroscopy."
"The application of semiconductor junction detectors to spectroscopy and flux monitoring for fast neutrons is discussed in terms of energy resolution and efficiency. The most useful forms of counter appear to be the proton-recoil and He3 filled detector arrangements, and the construction, performance and applications of such devices are described. A He3 filled detector has given an energy resolution of 150 keV for neutrons of 2-4 MeV with an efficiency approaching 10-5. Measurements are being made of the cross-sections for reactions induced in the silicon of the detectors by fast neutrons, an effect which limits the range of neutron energies for which the counters can be used. Radiation damage to detectors is briefly discussed."
"Techniques for achieving a thin dead layer exhibiting low sheet resistance on the n+ side of a p+-i-n+ diode made by the lithium drift process have been developed. A controlled quantity of lithium was diffused through a 1-to 2-micron phosphorus doped layer on the silicon diode. The phosphorus doped layer provided low sheet resistance. Because most of the lithium diffused layer was drifted into the bulk material, dead layers of less than 7 microns thickness were achieved. Detectors made by this technique have given 23 kev (fwhm) resolution for gamma rays and monoenergetic electrons at room temperature limited by diode noise. Detectors cooled to 78°-195°K gave 6.5 kev resolution for Cs137 conversion electrons (625, 655 kev) and Pb207 x-rays (74, 90 kev). Detectors stored without bias voltage at room temperature did not change performance over a four-month period. An analysis of the drift parameters has shown that the lithium drift rate depended upon the power dissipated in the diode during drift. An automatic control system was developed which allows the lithium drift operation to proceed at power dissipations in excess of 50 watts."
"A pulse shape discrimination circuit for solid state particle detectors has been developed that will distinguish between ionizing particles stopping completely within the junction region and those passing beyond. It is based upon the fact that the first kind of particles produce a fast rising pulse in the order of nanoseconds whereas the second kind have an added diffusion component in the microsecond region. A circuit description and representative spectra are given."
"Silicon diffused junction detectors were prepared by diffusion of boron-10 into n-type silicon of resistivity 1000-3800 ohm-cm at a temperature of 1000°C. Detector diameters ranged from 3 mm to 2 cm. With the junction edge exposed in air or in vacuum, these detectors were extremely unstable. The use of organic silanes and ordinary waxes as a coating on the exposed junction edge provided stability. For some detectors the treatment with silanes was followed by a decrease in leakage current during subsequent storage. For alpha particles a resolution width (FWHM) of 40-45 kev was obtained for 6 Mev alpha particles in a detector of diameter 3-4 mm. For 2-cm-diameter detectors the resolution width at this energy was 80-100 kev, but reduced to 40 kev for alpha particles at a higher energy of 9 Mev. The peak-to-valley ratio for fission fragments from Cf252 was constant and equal to 1.40 at a detector reverse voltage of 15 volts or higher. The use of boron-10 allows identification of the energies of the products of fission reactions that occur within the detector, although similar detectors may be prepared using ordinary boron. For the present detectors the energies of the reaction products from the reaction n(B10, Li7) α (and their sum were resolved with a resolution width of approximately 250 kev, and with energy corresponding to the known energies to within 5%."
"Commercially produced silicon surface barrier counters have been exposed at room temperature to hydrogen ion beams varying in energy from 18 to 225 kev and the pulse spectra analyzed. The output has been found to be linear with ion energy. A dead layer equivalent to about 4 kev loss by a 100 kev proton is indicated, suggesting that the gold surface layer is the only dead region. The width of the pulse spectrum is found to be about 9 kev for protons independent of ion energy, and limited by system noise. Multi-atomic ions produce an output a few percent below that expected of an equivalent number of protons of the same velocity. The width of the pulse spectrum is also found to be greater for the multi-atomic ions than for protons."
"The properties of a gold-doped silicon detector have been studied with ß-ray sorces. The observed peak of 0.6 Mev from a Sr90-Y90 source agrees well with the most probable energy loss in the detector, calculated for minimum ionizing electrons. Our ultimate aim is to use a matrix of 20 × 34 of such detectors to control our bubble chamber photography."
"Surface barrier detectors with essentially no dead layer and with depleted depths up to 1.5 mnm have been achieved by the combination of an inverted edge and a guard ring. The ability of these devices to withstand high reverse bias voltages insures rapid collection of the charge carriers and consequently fast rising pulses even for thick depletion regions. The energy resolution was 9.2 kev for 1-Mev electrons and was 7.5 kev fwhm at 285°K for 0.6-Mev electrons."
"Techniques are described with which inexperienced workers have been able to produce detectors with almost 100% yield. Results are presented of measurements made at 78°K and at 300°K."
"Several successful experiments carried out with the scintillation chamber are summarized to show what can be done with the systems which can be built now. There have been no developments in scintillation chamber components in the last year which allow radical improvements of these present systems. Many of the high energy nuclear experiments envisaged for the scintillation chamber can be done better with spark chambers. As a result of these two factors, there are only a few areas where a scintillation chamber is now the best instrument to use. Examples of such areas are space physics experiments, high energy beam imaging, high energy gamma ray detection and particle decays."
"A method is described for measuring the efficiency with which photoelectrons can be detected in an image intensifier system. A weak light is shone onto the first cathode and the photoelectron current measured. The light is then attenuated by a large known factor and compared with the number of spots observed in a given time. A simple system was used to demonstrate this method; a maximum efficiency of 85% was achieved. The results of experiments with a filament scintillation chamber and a Cerenkov detector using image intensifiers are discussed and yield some information about the electron detection efficiency. A simple method of finding the detection threshold is also mentioned with two typical examples of its results."
"A review of the present state of spark chamber technology is presented. The properties of spark chambers are reviewed and a summary of recent developments is given. An effort is made to make the survey of recent developments as complete as possible. Emphasis is given to technical problems which remain to be solved."
"During the course of an experiment on the decay properties of Λ° particles we observed qualitatively an ionization effect. The sparks of the heavily ionizing proton were bright and had 100% gap efficiency. The sparks of the minimum ionizing pion are weak and have a low gap efficiency. These observations are studied quantitatively in this paper."
"In preparation of an information retrieval system for experiments in nuclear physics a digitized spark chamber has been constructed and operated. Magnetic tape has been used for direct recording. It is planned to provide a high speed buffer storage."
"The delay time between the passage of an ionizing particle and the spark-chamber spark is one of the limiting factors in the time resolution of spark-chamber systems. The usual resolving time is of the order of 0.5 μsec. The delay time in photomultipliers, cables, coincidence mixers, high voltage pulse generators, spark gaps, spark chamber voltage rise, and spark formation is investigated. Elements of a system are described which result in a total delay of about 33 nsec, including the photomultiplier. This may permit a reduction in spark chamber memory time and time resolution by about one order of magnitude. The reduction in delays and rise times also decreases the displacement of tracks in spark chambers operating in a magnetic field."
"The state of the pulse-height analyzing art will be reviewed with particular emphasis on the developments of the past two years. The discussion will include consideration of multidimensional instruments, calibration-stabilizing techniques and some of the auxiliary features that are becoming increasingly available on commercial instruments. Possible future developments with respect to resolving time and memory organization will be discussed briefly."
"In their application to high energy physics, nanosecond electronic techniques offer the experimenter the possibility of accumulating large amounts of highly selected data in the presence of intense backgrounds of uninteresting events. In this paper selected examples of recent contributions to nanosecond electronics are reviewed. Attention is given to fast logic circuits, pulse measuring and transmission techniques, and to the new components whichlhave made the circuit developments possible. A temerous look at some future prospects is attempted."
"A feature of scintillation counters is their ability to provide information on the type of exciting particle from the characteristics of the scintillation decay. The current state of knowledge on the decay of organic and inorganic phosphors is reviewed, and the main features of the many circuits devised to utilize the effect are discussed. Limitations to the discrimination technique may be expected at high rates due to pulse pile up. The degrees of discrimination possible to low particle energies appears to be worse than may be expected on the basis of the photoelectron information available. The implications of this are examined."
"The most important area of development in gamma-ray scintillation spectrometry at the present time is the adaptation of digital computer techniques to the analysis of pulse-height spectra. The use of multi-dimensional pulse analyzers capable of storing 256 spectra, each containing up to 256 channels of digital information, has greatly increased the need for automated data processing techniques. As a first step, logical adders and tape input-output systems have been added to modern analyzers to permit some reduction of data within the machine itself. The development of analytical techniques adaptable to machine programming, however, appears to represent the only reasonable solution of the problem. A series of computer programs are described which have been successfully applied to the reduction of pulse-height data using digital computers. The calculations carried out by these programs include: determination of pulse-height vs energy response of a NaI detector; calculation of coincidence sum spectra; and the analysis of complex pulse-height spectra to obtain energies and relative intensities of individual gamma rays or relative abundances from a mixture of radionuclides. Measurement problems and instrumental requirements are discussed in detail."
"Time resolution of a scintillation counter system composed of scintillator, light pipe, multiplier phototube, discriminator, and coincidence circuit is discussed. The discriminator and coincidence circuits can produce coincidence curves with edges as steep as 10 psec per decade. Multiplier phototubes are capable of similar resolution. providing they view sufficiently bright, well-defined light flashes. In a time-of-flight measurement at the Berkeley 184-inch Cyclotron, the coincidence curve slope, measured from a counting rate of 50% to 5%, is 400 psec per decade. The light level corresponds to 2000 electrons reaching the first dynode of the multiplier phototube. A slope of 200 psec per decade would be expected if only the multiplier phototube and electronics were considered. Geometry and rate of light output of the scintillator are believed to limit system resolution at present."
"The nature of pulses resulting from alpha, beta, gamma, and neutron irradiation of Hornyak buttons has been examined under various conditions, including the use of light filters and both fast and slow electronics. Tentative conclusions about the mechanism of their origin are reached. Pulses from Compton recoils originate in the matrix and light transmitting media of the Hornyak button and phototube. Such pulses are of short duration, being similar in shape to photomultiplier noise pulses, in contrast to the 70-nanosecond decay of the fastest component of ZnS(Ag) fluorescence. A relatively simple, passive anticoincidence network is described which allows fast cancellation of the gamma-induced short pulses while passing the zinc sulfide scintillation with adequate efficiency. Rise time of the pulses emerging from the background suppression circuit is about 7 nsec. This network, in conjunction with a distributed amplifier, tunnel diode discriminator, and other fast electronic equipment is usel to select fission neutrons in coincidence with fission events."
"The complexity of the data-acquisition systems required for advanced nuclear physics experiments is increasing. The difficulties involved both in setting up these systems and in detecting failures or drifts in the associated electronic equipment increase rapidly with the complexity of the system. To alleviate these difficulties, some automatic test routines for checking a complete data-acquisition system from phototube to scaler or analyzer have been developed. One technique involves the use of the nanosecond light pulsers described by Kerns. These are mounted so as to illuminate the scintillators. Relay matrices for routing the electrical triggers to the pulsers have been developed. The routing is programmed to sequentially activate various combinations of light pulsers, thereby simulating the nuclear events under investigation, as well as accidental events. Control systems are provided to perform the programming, with either automatic or manually controlled sequencing. Methods of checking or recording the results of the test routine are discussed. Two applications of this technique to actual experiments are described."
"A K+ detector is being designed for the Princeton-Pennsylvania Accelerator Rapid Cycling 15\" Hydrogen Bubble Chamber which will trigger the photography whenever a K+ is produced in the chamber.1 For the reactions of interest within our energy range, the K+' s produced in the chamber will come to rest in the magnet coils needed for the field in the chamber and in the absorbers which will be placed in the gap between the coils. Plastic scintillators will be sandwiched between coil pancakes and absorber layers, and viewed by 96 2\" photomultiplier tubes. We expect to be able to detect all delayed pulses due to K+ decay secondaries triggering at least two layers with delays greater than 7 nsec., which corresponds to 20 per cent of all K+'s produced. The major design problems are connected with economical design of the magnet-scintillation counter system and detection of the pulses delayed only a few nanoseconds in the possible presence of sometimes larger \"prompt\" pulses in the same counters."
"The development of a liquid scintillation counting system has led to an evaluation of several multiplier phototube types, the comparison of a number of counting chamber surfaces, and an investigation of thermoelectric photocathode cooling. The results obtained, including the more important performance and electronic circuit characteristics of the system, are described."
"This liquid scintillation counter detects 14 mev neutrons by both proton-recoil and neutron-proton capture processes. It is designed to measure fast neutrons which occur in a single burst of a few microseconds duration, a burst which may contain anywhere from 100 to 100,000 neutrons. The counter is 36 inches in diameter, 36 inches long, and has an axial access cylinder 12 inches in diameter. It contains 475 liters of triethylbenzene, 2.5 grams per liter of p-terphenyl and 0.02 grams per liter of POPOP. Scintillations are detected by 20 Dumont Type 6364 multiplier phototubes. Four tubes are used as proton-recoil detectors and 16 are used as neutron-proton capture detectors. The counter was completed in January 1959, and has shown high reliability and only a relatively small change in sensitivity since it was first calibrated."
"A series of particle detectors have been used by the University of Chicago in the cosmic ray research program. The first of the series used a grouping of seven methane-argon semiproportional counters. Of the two balloon-borne spectrometers one used a thin (0.358 gms-cm-2) and a thick (13.53 gms-cm-2) CsI(Tl) scintillator and the associated photomultiplier tubes, while the other used a thin CsI(Tl) (0.716 gms-cm-2) scintillator and a Cerenkov counter (1/2-in. thick lucite) with their associated photomultiplier tubes. The first of these spectrometers was used to obtain the cosmic ray spectrum over the charge range of 6 ≤ Z ≤ 26 and the energy range of 50 to 500 Mev/ nucleon while the second spectrometer was used over the same charge range but the energy range was from 400 Mev/nucleon to 10 Bev/nucleon. The Mariner A spectrometer is similar in principle to the low energy balloon-borne spectrometer but it operated over a slightly different energy and charge range. The charge range was Li, Be, B, C, N, and O, while the energy range was from 44 to 112 Mev/nucleon for Li7 and from 23.1 to 220 Mev/nucleon for O16. The Mariner instrument uses a gold-silicon diode to provide -(dE/dx) information and it uses a photodiode to detect light pulses from the thick CsI(Tl) s cintillator."
"This paper discusses a system designed for obtaining γ -spectra from high altitudes, using a lightweight balloon-borne device transmitting pulse information to ground equipment employing a standard multichannel analyzer. The sensing unit is a thallium activated cesium iodide crystal, surrounded with pilot B scintillator for discrimination against charged particles, observed by a 6199 photomultiplier tube. Packaging arrangements to minimize temperature effects and prolong battery lifetime are described. The resolution and drift recorded during operation of the system compared favorably with those observed in the laboratory without telemetering."
"The advantages of the scintillation technique allow the development of experiments which can be made to respond preferentially to chosen types of particles. One such series of experiments requires the developlent of detectors which will identify single positrons mixed in a relatively high flux of other radiations. Directional detectors of positrons of energy between a few ev and a few Mev have been designed to search for admixtures of these particles in the cosmic radiation near the top of the atmosphere, in the electron population of the trapped radiation zone and in the solar particle streams and plasma clouds in interplanetary space. These detectors, which are scheduled for flight on balloons, sounding rockets and the Eccentric Geophysical Observatory satellite, are described. The scintillation techniques involved are discussed, and the analog and digital data-recovery instrumentation for each experiment is also outlined."
"A cosmic ray telescope has been developed to study the charge and energy spectra of primary cosmic radiation. The two major objectives of this program are: 1. A determination of the amount of interstellar material through which primary cosmic rays have passed between their source and the vicinity of the earth. This amount of material can be deduced from the shape of the low energy spectra of the primary nuclei helium to oxygen measured at solar minimum. 2. A study of the rigidity dependences on the various forms of modulations of hydrogen and helium nuclei. A secondary objective is a study of the charge and energy spectra of cosmic rays produced by the sun.-- The telescope is a combination of scintillators giving both the energy of a charged particle and its rate of energy loss, (dE/dx). This technique has been used extensively in the field of medium-energy nuclear physics and for studying the charge spectra of light fission fragments. A prototype detector was flown in balloons for a series of cosmic ray measurements in July 1961. Excellent charge and energy resolutions were obtained for electrons, protons and alpha particles late in the large cosmic ray event of July 1961. It is planned to fly a satellite version of the instrment on the first NASA Orbiting Geophysical Observatory. This report covers both the data obtained from balloon flights and the proposed satellite instrumentation."
"A detector developed specifically for rocket and satellite borne low energy gamma-ray astronomy experiments is described. The detector consists of a 2\" long × 1\" diameter CsI(T1) crystal viewed by a single photomultiplier tube together with a 8.75\" long × 5.75\" diameter CsI(T1) crystal viewed by four photomultiplier tubes. The small crystal is inserted into a well of the larger crystal, the output of the smaller crystal being run in anticoincidence with the large crystal. The output from the small crystal surviving the anticoincidence circuit is fed into a pulse height analyzer. This detector and its mode of operation provides a gamma-ray spectrometer which has: angular collimation, low background sensitivity, suppression of the compton continuum and relatively high photopeak efficiency. Data on the photopeak efficiency, angular response, and suppression of the compton continuum at various energies are presented. Reasons for using anticoincidence shielding rather than bulk shielding with lead to contend with background problems are discussed."
"Scintillation detectors used in space applications must meet rigid criteria for high performance at reduced pressure, at variable temperatures and must withstand extremes of shock and vibration. A large number of tubes have been subjected to shock and vibration tests. Ruggedized tubes withstood the tests and showed little change in gain. Measured temperature coefficients of gain varied from -.19% to -. 53% /°C, from 25°C to 70°C and may be circuit compensated. Battery and inverter type high voltage supplies have shortcomings which have been overcome in a high frequency voltage inverter circuit which supplies potential to each dynode directly. A preamplifier is described which has a voltage gain of one, a high input impedance and wide dynamic range such that further amplification is not required. The techniques described have been tested in several space flights."
"Information on the composition of the moon and its past history is being sought through measurements of the spectrum of the gamma rays emerging from the lunar surface. The detector is a 3 × 3 in. CsI-plastic scintillator phoswich feeding a 32-channel analyzer weighing 5 pounds. Energy range is to 3 Mev; in-flight calibration is provided by a small Co-57 and Hg-203 source fixed to the detector. Energy resolution is 12 ± 2 per cent at 0.66 Mev. The spectrometer, and indeed the entire spacecraft, is biologically sterile. The spectrometer aboard Ranger 3 (launched January 26, 1962; missed the moon by about 20,000 miles) transmitted back spectra currently being studied; Rangers 4 and 5 are repeats scheduled for later in 1962."
"A new technique for recording heavy primary cosmic radiation and nuclear processes has been developed through decoration of dislocations formed by these processes in large silver chloride single crystals. The crystals are prepared and exposed to cosmic radiation during high altitude balloon flights. The crystals are then treated according to the Haynes-Shockley photoelectric technique which results in silver collecting at the dislocations and thereby decorates the dislocations at room temperature within two hours. Since silver chloride is transparent to visible light, the decorated dislocations are observable with an optical microscope at a magnification of about 150-200. A one-to-one correspondence has been established between tracks in the crystals and those in photographic emulsions accompanying the crystals during balloon flights. Examples of heavy primary cosmic radiation and nuclear processes in crystals are shown."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In a zero power nuclear reactor operating in steady state fluctuations in the neutron population about the average neutron population are observable. These fluctuations are related to the dynamic parameters of the reactor and may be of interest in measurements of dynamic parameters or in the analysis of sensitive experiments in which the characteristics of this population fluctuation are important. In this paper equations are developed for the autocorrelation function and the power spectral density function for zero power, point reactor fluctuations. An equation is also derived for the ratio of the variance to the mean of the integrated value of the noise as a function of time interval. The derivation of these equations uses the concepts of noise analysis common to optimum design theory. The effects of delayed neutrons and of source neutrons are included. A typical experimental curve for the variance to mean ratio taken on the Ford Nuclear Reactor at the University of Michigan is shown which displays the form of this function."
"The development of current sensitive feedback amplifiers and their application to nuclear instrumentation is described and is exemplified by a non-overloading amplifier stage. Characteristics of this stage include a stage gain of 40, a loop gain of 250, a rise time of 0.2 μsec, and an input resistance of six ohms. Specific applications include a linear current discriminator, current to voltage converters, charge integrators and delay line shapers. A review of feedback theory and design equations is included."
"The concept of the charge sensitive amplifier is discussed and a novel method for obtaining a high gain amplifier stage through the use of a positive current feedback dynamic plate load is described. It is shown that under certain conditions this type of feedback can provide increased bandwidth as well as increased low frequency gain. The schematic of a preamplifier embodying these principles is given and its performance is described. The measured noise, with no external capacitance, is 510 r.m.s. electrons for equal integration and differentiation time constants of 1 μsec. The measured risetimes for closed loop gains of 100 and 1000 are 25 and 96 nanoseconds respectively. Linearity and gain sensitivity data are also included."
"The usual reactor kinetics equations are shown to consist of three major camponents, a fast term; a product or quotient, and a summation of transient terms. These can be synthesized by using a number of simple R.C. networks having time constants related to the fast time constant and to the decay constants of the various groups of delayed neutron emitters, plus either an analog multiplier or divider. If an input signal proportional to neutron flux or reactor power is applied to this network, the output will be proportional to reactivity. A circuit is shown which incorporates these principles, using a diode divider. Curves are presented of output reading, indicating transient reactivity, for input currents having constant positive period, as obtained from a motor-driven potentiometer. It is shown that these curves are in reasonable agreement with calculated curves of reactivity for such periods."
"When using avalanche transistors at high continuous repetition rates and particularly at large duty cycles, problems are encountered. Therefore, some desirable avalanche transistor parameters and some suitable basic circuit configurations are indicated. A triggerable pulse generator which operates at over 10 megacycles and produces pulse widths adjustable from a few nanoseconds to 40-percent duty cycle is described. These pulses are of low time jitter and are approximately rectangular with about 2-nanosecond rise and fall times at 50 ma on 125 ohms."
"Lithium-ion-drifted diodes were prepared by diffusion of lithium into silicon in vacuo at 350-400°C, followed by electric-field-drift in a silicone oil bath at 150 °C. Extension of the sensitive region toward the p-type surface was interrupted and observed intermittently by means of alpha particles incident upon this surface at three energies in the range of 6 to 9 Mev. Ion-drift was then continued until the plot of pulse height vs energy for these alpha particles showed a negligible (<50 kev) energy intercept for distances of drift up to 4 mm from the lithium-diffused surface. The response to protons at energies from 4.5 to 10 Mev was linear to within ±0.3%. The resolution width (FWHM) for protons at the higher energy, for deuterons at 20 Mev and for alpha particles at 40 Mev was limited by beam energy spread in the Argonne 60-in. cyclotron. At room temperature, resolution widths down to 20 kev were observed for electrons at energies of 500 kev and 1 Mev, and that for gamma rays was 9 kev at 661 kev. Resolution widths down to 12-13 kev were observed for electrons at 1 Mev when the detectors were cooled to liquid nitrogen temperature."
"An image tube with proximity focusing, i.e. with closely spaced photocathode and phosphor, is compared with an image tube with the simplest magnetic focusing produced by homogeneous, parallel electric and magnetic fields. Both types of focusing give a 1:1 magnification and can be applied to large image areas. As long as the homogeneity of the fields is maintained, the resolution will be uniform over the total picture area in both cases. The accuracy of focusing in the two cases is derived. While the error is a first order expression of the ratio of the initial and end velocities in the proximity focusing, the first order term disappears in the magnetic focusing and a second order expression remains for the error. This shows the superiority of the magnetic focusing. By taking account of the statistical distribution of initial velocities, the resolution obtainable with proximity focusing is calculated. Particular attention is drawn to the fact that, in an actual experiment, the errors of different origin are not always independent of each other and therefore do not add quadratically. This is demonstrated for magnetic case."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Each of the transistor biasing configurations - common-emitter, common-base, and common-collector - has disadvantages which greatly limits the use of cascaded, single-transistor stages for general wide-band amplification. Careful choice of a combination of biasing configurations in a single stage permits optimum use of the advantages of each configuration while minimizing the effects of the disadvantages. Considerations leading to the design of an acceptable wide-band pulse amplifier stage are discussed. These principles have been applied to the design of a one-stage feedback amplifier, which has the following characteristics: gain = 25.8 db, rise time = 2.8 nsec, and linear amplification of either positive or negative pulses."
"A redundant transistorized pulse amplifier is described, composed of a remote preamplifier operating at -80°C and a main pulse amplifier. Active parallel redundancy is used in the preamplifier as well as in the main amplifier. Common feedback between the parallel redundant amplifiers stabilizes the voltage amplification in spite of component failures in one signal path. Delay-line pulse shaping is employed to reduce noise and to eliminate the detrimental effects of pulse pile-up."
"Measurements have been made on three types of silicon Junction counters to assess their application in gamma ray dosimetry. These measurements are presented and it is concluded that each of the three types (high resistivity and guard-ring p-n junction counters and lithium drift counters) are suitable. Their limitations and means of application are also discussed."
"The R.P.I. Linac, one of the most powerful electron accelerators in the world, has been in operation for several months. It has been operated at 130 megawatts peak power and at average beam power of 50 kilowatts for sustained runs. Evidence of pulse shortening has been observed only at currents of 0.8 ampere for pulse widths of 4.6 microseconds. A detailed discussion of performance is presented as well as current improvements."
"A semiconductor current digital integrator is described for measuring currents as low as 10-9, amps with an accuracy better than 0.02% and a dynamics of 104. This is accomplished by Comparing two currents by means of a two-channel instrument. Using only one of the channels, the accuracy is 0.1% and the dynamic range is 105."
"An evaluation of spurious, nonneutron, background counts from BF3 proportional counters has been made. This evaluation indicates that the source of ionization events within the counters is from alpha particles originating in natural uranium series bulk contamination of the counter materials. This leads to an irreducible minimum background counting rate in the absence of rfeutrons which is characteristic of each individual counter. Measurements on a number of commercial counters gave backgrounds of from 0.005 to 0.05 cpm per square inch of inner surface. Careful materials selection and special processing techniques should reduce this source of background considerably."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"It is here suggested that concepts that are close to real physical phenomena are fundamental. To give an example, an exhaustive study of the ramifications of an actual resistor-inductor-capacitor series circuit would be fundamental. This study would include nonlinear and hysteresis effects, variation of parameters with frequency, and distributed capacitance of the coil. Linear transient and steady-state phenomena would be part of such a study. It would include properties of ferromagnetic and dielectric materials, and would draw on field concepts almost as much as on circuit concepts. The study would be experimental as well as theoretical. The above is offered as an example, and it serves to introduce another viewpoint as to what is fundamental, this being the operation of the scientific method in creating a valid attitude about experimental evidence and conceptual models. We live in a real world in which experimental evidence is the final arbiter, but, perhaps unwittingly, we lead our students to believe that the world of conceptual models is the real world. A student with such a misconception is seriously lacking in fundamental knowledge."
"An experiment on pulse-code modulation designed for the senior-year electronics student is described. PCM is pedagogically desirable for its embodiment of a wide variety of pulse and digital techniques. The experiment draws upon the component-type experiences typical of undergraduate courses and integrates them into a complex system study. Emphasis is on functional interaction rather than on how a particular circuit accomplishes its function. Sixteen level quantization is used with provision for injection of noise and variation of system parameters."
"This article describes a laboratory servomechanism and an associated laboratory sequence which were designed to complement theoretical first courses in servomechanisms at either senior-year undergraduate or first-year graduate level. The primary aims were to provide the student with the means for an experimental verification of theoretical results and, at the same time, to encourage him to establish some feeling for the physical reality of an operating feedback system."
"The undergraduate student contacts feedback ideas from two distinct points of view, each with its own nomenclature and symbolism: electronics on one hand, and control systems on the other. In the typical electronics or communications book treating feedback at an undergraduate level, the analysis is constrained to the steady-state sinusoidal situation. Nyquist's criterion is merely presented without proof or justification. The student finds this theorem, when presented so briefly, a rather mysterious and vague concept. On the other hand, the author of the control systems or servo-mechanism text gives space in his book for a more thorough treatment of the feedback system but usually he uses terms and symbols that to the student seem to be unrelated to those terms and symbols used in the electronics \"brand\" of feedback. In recent years, the pole-zero concept has become a part of the undergraduate student's background in circuits. Pedagogically, the root-locus approach to the feedback system follows with ease. In contrast, Nyquist's criterion definitely becomes the more difficult concept. Furthermore, the root-locus approach is broader in scope. From three to fifteen lectures are needed to bridge the gap between the pole-zero concepts of circuits to a basic understanding of the feedback system."
"The paper discusses how the concept of switchingtype servosystems can be introduced into an undergraduate curriculum without requiring a more advanced background in mathematics on the part of the student than is ordinarily expected. A differential equation approach is used to study the response of a second-order system which is excited with a step function input. The system starts to respond in a linear mode of operation with an over-all positive feedback and switches into a different linear mode with an over-all negative feedback at a predetermined instant. The system is designed so as to respond with no overshoot. The response time is shorter than that of a conventional critically-damped linear negative feedback system with the same major physical components. The results of a rigorous study by means of a phase-space representation are also given."
"The z transform of simple delay, integrator, leadlag, and differentiator networks are suggested as the basic building blocks for simulating complex control systems on a digital computer. The system parameters retain their explicit identity, thus facilitating analysis and design of the system as a function of specific parameter changes."
"Based on energy considerations, it is possible to obtain the differential equations of motion of any physical system. A statement of equilibrium involving operations on energy functions is the Lagrange equation d / OT\\ a7' D aOV dt (aq,) -aq aq + aq. Providing that the kinetic energy T, potential energy V, and dissipation function D can be written, the differential equations of the system are obtained by following a straightforward systematic procedure. It is not necessary to employ Kirchhoff's laws or Newton's force law to obtain the equations of electrical and mechanical systems. Rather, the two kinds of systems fall within the scope of this general method. The energy method is particularly useful in dealing with electromechanical systems and with mechanical systems that combine rotation and translation. Nonlinear as well as linear systems can be handled with equal ease. Versatility of the method is shown by its application to various examples, chosen in more or less increasing order of complexity. A set of tables is provided, listing the energy functions for each basic type of electrical, mechanical and electromechanical element. Those charged with teaching students the different disciplines of dynamics and electric circuits should find herein a common meeting ground wherein one general method suffices to yield the necessary differential equations."
"A new method for determining the coefficients of the Fourier series is given. This method is developed by considering each sample as a vector. The two coefficients an and bn are obtained simultaneously. Compared with the present techniques, this method is much simpler and more accurate. Illustrative examples are included."
"The main purpose of this paper is to present and clarify the subdivision of teaching machines into the General Purpose and Special Purpose categories. Initial defining of: Teaching Machines, General Purpose Teaching Machines, Special Purpose Teaching Machines, and Teaching Machine Technology will establish a frame of reference within which this paper will be presented. The distinctions between the general purpose and special purpose teaching machines will be in the areas of the motivations of each type, the differences in the-basic functional block diagrams, if any, and the applications of each type to technical training and engineering education. A prediction is also given."
"The evolution of graduate education in electrical engineering began in the early 1890' s and progressed at a rapid pace in the 1920' s, particularly in metropolitan areas conscious of community needs. In these areas, evening programs held the spotlight because of the ever-demanding need to provide graduate engineers with advanced knowledge. Such cooperation between community interests and colleges has resulted in a wide variety of patterns of part-time study on campus and, more recently, off campus. The later development is viewed with criticism in several educational circles although off-campus programs are filling tremendous requirements arising from industrial concentrations not within easy reach of a university or college. The evolution seems to indicate that off campus programs are not a passing fancy and that such requirements are very likely to be best satisfied in the long run by the establishment of graduate centers with a faculty in residence. As an example, the Polytechnic Graduate Center on Long Island is described. (The Center, actually located in Farmingdale, N. Y., began its operation on September 25, 1961, with a graduate student body of nearly 700 in day and evening programs involving advanced courses in Aerospace Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electrophysics, Mathematics, Mechanical Engineering, Physics, and Industrial Management. Close to 150 part-time day students are attending on a released-time basis, in addition to 45 full-time students in residence.)"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The author establishes a keynote for the session by attempting the difficult task of defining a system. The definition I will give was arrived at several years ago and it seems to have stood the test of time reasonably well. A system is a collection of entities or things (animate or inaniimate) which receives certain inputs and is constrained to act concertedly upon them to produce certain outputs with the objective of maximizing some function of the inputs and outputs. Before discussing this definition it might be well to consider first why systems (in this sense) have begun to receive special attention. During the ensuing discussion, Dr. Kershner was asked to comment on the teaching of systems in the undergraduate and graduate levels. He replied that the schools should continue to teach basic engineering in the early college years, and specific courses in systems engineering should be confined to the late college or preferably the graduate level. His experience has shown that the best systems engineers are those who have spent considerable time as specialists and then subsequently broadened into the systems viewpoint, and that attempts to teach systems engineering to someone too young and who has not had the discipline of a specialty have not been successful."
"I have attempted to call attention to what is perhaps the weakest link in system theory, namely, the process of making measurements which yield the numbers that serve as the inputs to the mathematical theory. I have called attention to Dirac's notation because quantum mechanics, in which this notation was first used, is very much concerned with the measurement process and the notions of linear operators which are used therein have a very close tie to measurement problems in larger systems. Secondly, I have suggested that we need more invention and critical innovation in developing a notation well suite(d for the representation and study of systems. Here, vector-space concepts and matrix notation may be used to good advantage, and signal-flow graphs provide a new kind of algebraic notation that is well matched to the visual sense and deserves continued study. Finally, the links between the theory and the natural universe may be strengthened by extending the rich stockpile of abstract concepts downward to acquire ever fuller itnterpretations and insights into physical phenomena. Let us not forget Poincare's answer to the question, \"Who has taught us the true analogies, the profound analogies which the eyes do not see, but which reason can divine? It is the mathematical mind, which scorns content and clings to pure form.\""
"General system theory or, more simply, system theory is essentially a body of abstract concepts and mathematical techniques which can be applied to analysis and design of a wide variety of physical systems. This paper presents a brief exposition of some of the basic concepts of system theory and sketches its principal problems and techniques. The discussion centers on the notion of state and state-space methods. Among the problems touched upon are those of characterization and identification, optimal control and system equivalence."
"The writer recently spent a year as Visiting Professor of mechanical engineering at Lehigh University, Bethehem, Pa. As a result of this visit and incidental visits to other Universities and laboratories in the U. S. A. and England, some thoughts on engineering education are here set down. First, comparisons are drawn between American and British engineerinig schools, and then analyses of the curricula in civil, electrical and mechanical engineering are made in order to discover the common content. From this emerges a fairly generally accepted common core which may be used as a yardstick or norm and as a starting point for any revision. Interesting educational trends are evident, both in curricula and physical equipment. These are reviewed and suggestions as to the future are made."
"As a result of a recent trip to Moscow the writer describes the Russian scientific educational program at the university level. Relative numbers of students and faculty members are presented along with a breakdown of the areas of study. The Russian educational effort is compared to that of other countries, particularly Italy, and suggestions as to how Italy might retain her position in industrial development through her universities are presented."
"The writer discusses the advantages of branched learning programs over fixed programs, and proposes forward branching as a means of reducing all types of branching to one procedure. Details of this unified procedure are enumerated and discussed and the construction and operation of a simple device for evaluating student performance with different branch techniques is described."
"A 24-month graduate molecular electronics curriculum is proposed in this paper. It offers 117-120 quarter credit hours of courses in the following sequences: Qtr Credit Hrs Mathematics 20 Physics 16 EE, including Molecular Electronics 49 Service Courses 11 Electives 9-12 Independent Study leading to Master's Thesis 12"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The paradox of engineering education is that it must prepare the student to undertake work in areas unknown at the time he is attending college. An attempt is made to formulate criteria for establishing engineering curricula which will meet this apparently self-contradictory requirement. Rather than basing education on apparatus and techniques possessing high rates of obsolescence, it is suggested that the following be emphasized: the disciplining of the mind; communication techniques, both linguistic and mathematical; the cultural heritage of mankind; the macroscopic properties of the three states of matter; invariant principles of laboratory apparatus; fundamental network theory; and the field concept and radiation."
"System design engineers are in short supply and difficult to train. On-the-job training is the principal method used today, and the universities that seek to train system engineers make use of cooperative arrangements with industry to provide such experience. This paper suggests that training emphasis incorrectly has been placed on skills that are useful in system design work, rather than on the development of certain valuable qualities (talents or personality traits). On-the-job training is often pursued without due recognition of the importance of these qualities, and academic training today seems more attuned to the teaching of skills. It is hoped that discussion of these factors will help stimulate educators and engineering managers to search for ways to shorten the long training cycle."
"The staff members of an engineering school, perhaps more than those in any other group, are subject to continually changing technical responsibilities. The rate of change in the decades preceding 1950 was relatively slow, and new material was easily assimilated by competent individuals. In recent years, the increasing flow of new knowledge has presented a situation in which the effective instructor must be at the same time an ardent student. The danger of becoming obsolete is ever present. This paper attempts to analyze some of the problems which are presented to the senior staff members, to the middle-aged staff members, to the young men, and to the administrators. Some possible solutions to these problems are also presented."
"PLATO II is an automatic teaching device designed to teach a number of students concurrently, but independently, by means of a single, central, high-speed computer. Only two student sites have been constructed thus far, but, in principal, the number of students that can be taught by PLATO II is limited only by the capacity and speed of the central computer. The power of such a computer-based teaching system stems from its ability to ask complex questions, judge the students' answers to these questions, and take an appropriate course of action on the basis of student responses. The computer also keeps detailed and accurate records of student performance, which are extremely useful guides to improving course content. The paper reports in some detail a study using PLATO II to teach nine undergraduate students a portion of a course on computer programming. By way of example of what can be done, the paper presents some analysis and interpretation of data gathered by the computer in the course of the study. The apparent effectiveness of PLATO II as a teacher, as well as the kinds of problems encountered in preparing lesson material for an automatic system, are discussed."
"In considering the role of the undergraduate laboratory in an engineering curriculum, it is important that the objectives of the laboratory program be well understood and clearly set forth. It is proposed that the objectives of a modern laboratory program should be: 1) to supplement and strengthen the teaching of subject matter by laboratory methods and 2) to teach the theory and practice of experimentation. A complete laboratory program designed to meet the above objectives should include classroom demonstrations, self-demonstrations, a course on the theory and practice of experimentation, a measurements course, and a senior projects laboratory. The unique features of, such a laboratory program are 1) the self-demonstrations which are designed and programmed much like a teaching machine but which are made up of normal laboratory equipment with which the student carries out an actual physical experiment, and 2) the handling of the theory and practice of experimentation as a body of information which can be taught and which exists as a subject in its own right to be included in an engineering curriculum."
"Today's electrical engineering curriculum has not in general kept pace with the increasing use of magnetic devices to solve engineering problems. Increasing emphasis on the analysis of problems peculiar to magnetic engineering serves to better prepare the student to find solutions in magnetics to his engineering problems. Such emphasis also broadens the student's analytical background through the posing of types of problems not found in other parts of the curriculum."
"An operational calculus is outlined that enables the determination of the response of any lumped circuit to a general waveform. It is based on elementary notions of operator algebra (sum, product, and inversion of operators) and is rigorously deducible. All processes are carried out in the time domain, no transform or complex-variable theory being needed. The operators turn out to correspond to superposition integrals of impulse responses. Steady-state theory is derived easily as a special case. In particular, the response to any periodic waveform can be calculated by integrations over a single period and is a distinct improvement over the use of Fourier series or Laplace transforms for this problem. The analog of the calculus in the frequency domain is shown to correspond to the use of the bilateral Laplace transformation."
"This paper presents in terms of a three-dimensional surface a technique for a visual as well as mathematical treatment of broad generality of the RL, RC and LC one-ports. An examination of the partial fraction terms of all the two-element series and parallel components which make up the canonic one-ports indicates that seven different types of terms are all that occur. The real and imaginary parts of all such functions for s = σ + jω may be represented geometrically by a surface in three-space. It is found that all the real and imaginary part functions are geometrically 1) a plane parallel or inclined to Aar the a, o plane; 2) the basic surface, given by 2 + 2' A > O, located in various positions with respect to the axes; or 3) a combination of the plane and basic surface. The driving function of any two-element-kind one-port is the sum of some combination of the real and imaginary part functions and so is represented by a sum of some combination of the canonic surfaces."
"This article presents a treatment of the problem of the superregenerative oscillator used to detect changes in the equivalent conductance of the coil of its resonant circuit. It is shown that if the conductance changes occur at a rate much less than the quenching frequency of the oscillator, and a rectangular quench waveform is employed, it is possible to obtain an expression relating the factors upon which the oscillator sensitivity depends without resorting to difficult mathematics. This method, using physical reasoning, should give the student a simple introduction to the subject."
"This paper presents results on digital computer calculation of the operation of some tube and transistor circuits which combine nonlinear operation with energy storage elements. The Class C amplifier, the frequency multiplier and the blocking oscillator are all circuits of this type. This approach allows many of the conventional restrictions on analysis procedures to be removed. For instance, in the case of the Class C amplifier, it is not necessary to assume that the plate and grid voltages are sinusoidal and the circuit at steady state. Additional features of computer use are the automatic calculation of efficiencies, plotting of waveforms and calculation of harmonic content; the facility of studying the effects of transients and modulation; the possibility of allowing the circuit parameters to take on any values or vary with time or with the voltages and currents; and the possibility of allowing the circuit associated with the device to be more complicated than usually allowed by other methods. Limitations to this approach lie in the cost of programming the problem, and the cost of running the program on an available computer. Questions of numerical accuracy sometimes arise, but can usually be handled with additional programming or running time. If a translator is available which can accept programs in the form of algebraic equations, the programming cost is often negligible. However, running time costs may be appreciable, particularly in the case of a complicated circuit with many storage elements."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1962."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Summary form only given. The Professional Group on Engineering Writing and Speech recently celebrated its fifth birthday in distinguished company, as Dr. Alfred Goldsmith lunched with members of the PGEWS Administrative Committee. Among Dr. Goldsmith's memorable remarks (he is a dean of deipnosophy and prefect of punsters) was the observation that the entire Institute of Radio Engineers is, after all, a professional group on engineering writing and speech, and that PGEWS serves as a focus for these activities. No IRE member can be unmindful of the huge publishing venture that the IRE represents. The PROCEEDINGS, TRANSACTIONS, section magazines, PG newsletters, and conference records of the IRE contribute mightily to the expanding technical literature discussed in our lead paper. The number of pages published annually by the IRE is said to have increased 10 times in about as many years. Perhaps there is 10 times as much to be said as there was 10 years ago; nevertheless, man does not read 10 times as fast as he did then, nor does he have 10 times as many hours in which to read. His problem is simply 10 times as great, and cries for quick remedy. The problem belongs to PGEWS, an organization of writers, and it belongs to the IRE, a much larger confraternity of both writers and readers. If we can't find a solution soon, some higher authority may impose an agricultural-type remedy, where writers are paid according to the number of papers they do not publish. The analogy between a warehouse filled with unpublished manuscripts and a silo filled with unused grain is replete with poetic possibility."
"A quantitative estimate is made of the magnitude of the world's electronics and electrical engineering journal literature problem. By the use of a number of basic sources of information, a composite picture is established to show total volume, linguistic and national origins, degree of coverage by the abstracting and indexing services, and the availability of special information centers. Some criticism is directed at the electrical engineering professional societies for not taking more positive action on this problem of concern to their entire membership. The paper concludes with suggestions for coping with this general problem."
"This paper outlines, in some detail, accepted rules for constructing statistical tables. Among the topics covered are the criteria for choosing vertical or horizontal presentation of information, use of rules, and table and column captions."
"The author draws upon his experiences in teaching report writing in industrial organizations to illustrate some factors, other than the technique of the authors, which can seriously affect the quality of written reports. These factors include unsuitable working conditions, vagueness of specification, slow editing, denial of responsibility, criticism of trivia, and the constant attempt to simplify all things, however complex."
"At Cornell University, a course in technical writing and speaking, required for fifth-year electrical engineers, was redesigned for the summer co-op session to encourage creative thinking, both as an aid to the students in their general engineering work and as a more efficient medium for conveying good technical communicating processes. Students were required to \"invent\" devices, find answers to imaginary problems, and convey the ideas derived from these projects to other people. Emphasis was also placed on fast, efficient methods for finding information, and coherent explanations of technical problems to many different types of audiences. No attempt has been made to evaluate the long-range effects of this course on the creativity of the individuals concerned. It is felt, however, that the major accomplishments along these lines were the introduction of techniques for ideational fluency and creative problem solving and the constant reinforcement of creative efforts. Included in this paper are the original assignments for the course and a proposal for an ideal, but wholly practical, new course in technical communications based upon the results of this course."
"A questionnaire was used to survey the operating practices of commercial instruction-manual groups in the process instrument industry. The results are presented and discussed. Subjects examined include 1) the amount of time the writer must spend on research; 2) areas of responsibility of the instruction department and other departments in the preparation of an instruction manual; 3) relations with customers; and 4) manpower shortage."
"Presents 9 abstracts of recent articles on engineering writing and speech from non IRE publications."
"The authors (William M. Schulte and Erwin R. Steinberg) skillfully touch the needs of readers. As teachers, they understand those needs and as writers they appeal to them, clarify them, and meet them. Little more can be asked of any textbook. Additionally, this one is pleasant to read and easy to learn from. It is an effective example of its own teachings. The relaxed style is persuasive, so that one has to look twice to detect how his thinking has been altered."
"It may seem add that a book review on the Engineering Secretary is directed to engineers. However, as the preface states, the busy engineer will not have time to train his secretary in the many duties of her position. This book will help do this. The author, Eleanor Schremser Laird, tersely sets forth the requirements and expectation of engineering for the Engineering Secretary. She is general in her approach when activities are tailored to local situations. She is specific in areas where there is little doubt about what is required. Chapters on special typing problems, abbreviations and symbols, reproduction methods, simple drafting, technical dictation, specifications and standards, security and patents contain information that could be gained only through years of experience. The normal content of Secretarial Handbooks is included too. However, the focus is always engineering. Chapters on accounting responsibilities, filing, and secretarial techniques are intended to integrate the secretary into the creative engineering team. The Engineering Secretary's Complete Handbook will provide orientation that will make your secretary an effective extension of your project."
"This paperback by Emerson Clarke is crammed with the type of really useful information often promised but rarely delivered in our literature. A \"must\" book for the publications manager, this, and especially for someone new at it. There are organization charts and job descriptions aplenty, and any administrator concerned with setting up a publications department will find down-to-earth suggestions on work-area layout, organization of writing and production groups, personnel training, scheduling, filing systems, and costestimating. If the publications manager is the book's best audience, the technical writer is its star. The author discusses methods of recruiting, interviewing, evaluating, encouraging, organizing, criticizing, and rewarding the technical writer. The book falters in the \"Evaluating the Writer\" chapter, which includes a suggested test of the writing skill of a prospective technical writer. There is more than enough paydirt in this handbook to please anyone in the publications business."
"The author notes a number of complaints recently about the poor quality of some of the papers presented at technical meetings. He argues that a large part of the trouble is undoubtedly being caused by the difficulty of evaluating a paper from an abstract or a summary. He suggests that the central problem in the evaluation of papers is that the papers are not usually written until after they are accepted for presentation. One way to solve the problem would be to require that the complete paper be submitted for review. He believes that the best short form, from the standpoint of both reviewer and author, is the outline. He does not propose to eliminate the abstract; it is needed to publicize the paper. But he feels we should call it what it really is, a theme paragraph or, still better, let's use book industry jargon and call it a blurb. What he does suggest is that the use of outlines for evaluation would simplify the review committee's task without putting an unnecessary load on the author or affecting the timeliness of the paper."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A process has been explored, using the Lincoln TX-O computer, for detecting patterns in the electroencephalogram and for recognizing the characteristics of the EEG corresponding to individual subjects. Preliminary results indicate that a number of different subjects and states of the same subject can be distinguished with excellent probability."
"As a prelude to the study of the adaptive-behavior and data-handling characteristics of natural and artificial neural networks, an analog model of a single neuron was developed. An analog computer was employed to reproduce the known electrical characteristics of a neuron in a qualitative simulation study of neuronal behavior. A self-imposed criterion of a minimum number of analog-computer components was adopted for the single-neuron simulation in anticipation of network studies. This criterion led to the development of a simple analog circuit which has qualitatively reproduced some of the known electrical characteristics of a neuron, such as: initiation of an action potential in the presence of suprathreshold depolarizing (or excitatory) inputs; strength-duration relationship; accommodation; refractoriness; rate of pulse repetition as a function of the input depolarization level; and prolonged action potentials. The simulation method adopted consisted of four major analog-computer components, three operational amplifiers and a single-shot multivibrator. The circuit developed has a linear forward path with a nonlinear form of feedback. A discussion is given of the properties exhibited by the simulated neuron with and without the nonlinear feedback. A mathematical method for linearly approximating nonlinear behavior is presented. This method is known as the \"describing function technique,\" and its application to the analysis of neuronal behavior is described, as well as the technique's application to the synthesis of simulation networks."
"A clinical electrocardiographic interpretation depends on use of classifications tailored by the physician to suit his own clinical practice. These classifications are built up from the correlations of multiple combinations of electrocardiographic parameters and their measurements to clinical entities. If the clinical electrocardiogram or any other clinically used \"electro-medical\" signal is to be examined by a computer it is the specialist of the subject matter who must develop a step by step organization and detailed logic of the material so that the \"computer specialist\" can follow it. With this available, the \"computer specialist\" is able to properly detail the procedures that the computer will follow to perform the desired service for the practicing physician."
"This study was undertaken to demonstrate the feasibility of use of computers in extracting clinically useful parameters from electrophysiologic waveforms. The ECG leads were recorded on magnetic tape. The analog signal was sampled 625 times per second and that data was converted to a form suitable for a general-purpose digital computer. Criteria for clinically significant voltage fluctuations of the signal from the baseline within specified time intervals were determined. The computer was programmed to identify those fluctuations automatically. For an output, the computer produces a set of measurements of ECG waveforms from one cardiac cycle in any random 5-sec. portion of a lead. The program can be expanded to include any measurement, but for present purposes it permits determination of amplitude of P, Q, R, S and T waves, ST and PQ segments, and QT and RR intervals. Variables are measured to an accuracy of 1 part in 1000. Measurements conform to those obtainable by careful hand measurement of magnified tracings of the original records. Automatically derived data can be simultaneously used in computer-programmed statistical analysis to permit classification of the tracings into categories of normality or abnormality. The entire automated system can thus become a diagnostic aid to the physician. This paper deals with one phase of a project directed at the development of an automated system to aid in the diagnosis of heart disease."
"This paper is an expository presentation on 1) mathematical and statistical concepts deemed to be important in analyzing the nature of random physical phenomena, 2) development of over-all procedures for evaluating single records and a collection of records, and 3) particular details on interpreting and applying probability density functions, correlation functions, and power spectral density functions. The discussion is directed towards a general audience to help bring about a wider understanding of these ideas for application to many problems such as: vibration in space vehicles, meteorological or oceanographic prediction, electrical noise properties, biomedical research, etc."
"The difference in effective velocity of sound pulses propagated alternately upstream and downstream through moving blood is a measure of the blood velocity. A blood flowmeter based on this principle has been developed and employed in routine experiments over a period of four years. The travel time of sound pulses passing diagonally through the blood vessel is measured by gating a ramp voltage generator during the transit of each sound pulse from the transmitter crystal to the receiver crystal. The peak voltage attained by the ramp is stored and compared with the peak voltage attained by the subsequent ramp when the direction of propagation is reversed. The cycle is repeated 400 times each second so that a 400 cps carrier is formed. The amplitude of the carrier is proportional to the magnitude of the flow, and the phase of the carrier indicates direction of flow. The total PP noise and long-term drift is less than 7(10)-11sec difference in transit time over a four-hour measurement period, under optimal conditions. Here a demodulator limited the rise time of the instrument to 20 msec. Each upstream-downstream measurement requires only 240 μsec of the total available 2500 μsec, so that a time sharing technique may be used to operate many flowmeters simultaneously without mutual interference. The transducers are light (about 5 grams) and economical to construct."
"This paper describes a technique for the quantitative analysis of nonradioactive iodine. The method uses the X-ray absorption discontinuities for the detection of iodine in the presence of any other absorbing substance. A stationary lanthanum radiator converts an X-ray beam having a continuous spectrum into two monochromatic beams which straddle the iodine absorption edge. The energy spread is such as to make the technique relatively independent of other foreign elements. A rotating filter alternately absorbs one of the two beams while leaving the other on continuously. The information in the beams is detected and synchronously switched into two counting circuits. The intensity of the beams is measured by two counting-rate meters and the ratio of these intensities is obtained by a conventional self-balancing potentiometer. Since this ratio is determined every 1/60 of a second the iodine determination is insensitive to X-ray output, amplifier and detector drift."
"Large liquid scintillation counters offer a unique combination of high sensitivity and moderate energy resolution and hence are particularly useful for the rapid measurement of the radioactivity of the human body and other large samples. This counter permits measurements of internal gamma contamination of the human body at concentrations 1000 times less than maximum permissible levels. Such an instrument can, therefore, have many practical applications to diagnosis in clinical and experimental medicine. The instrumentation to be described is used with the new Los Alamos human counter but the techniques are applicable to large liquid scintillation counters in general. Objectives in this system are: 1) optimizing pulse-height (energy) resolution from the detector, 2) optimizing SNR, 3) long-term stability and freedom from rate and overload deficiencies and 4) accuracy, speed and versatility of data handling and processing."
"In order to take advantage of computer technology in clinical neurological research a coding system was devised for patients with convulsive disorders and behavior disordered children. The code sheets are filled in at the time of examination of the patient and this ensures that uniform data are obtained. For the most part, the system consists of graded scales. These cover most of the information which is routinely obtained in a clinical interview and examination. An effort has been made to assign qualitatively different phenomena to separate IBM columns so that direct correlations can be carried out between most of the columns without the need of prior sorting on specific items. The system deals specifically with information related to seizure patients and behavior disordered children but the basic outline is such that it can easily be adapted to any other neurological condition one may wish to study."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Suspensions of luminous bacteria were used to investigate the response of this biological system to microwave exposures in the stated frequency range at power levels up to 16.7 w. The merits of the biological system for this work are presented. The experimental arrangement, method of exposure and results are presented. Nonthermal effects in the test organism are found not to occur under the conditions of the investigation. The significance of this finding with respect to man is discussed."
"Two types of gated sine-wave electromagnetic flowmeter are examined critically, and found to be sensitive to phase shift in the transducer signal. This phase shift is always found in a sine-wave flow transducer because of imperfection in construction, particularly in those used for physiology and medicine. A flowmeter design that discards amplitude modulation and is sensitive to phase change only is described. Advantages over other types of electromagnetic flowmeter are discussed. Results obtained with the phase detection flowmeter are illustrated."
"An experiment has been carried out to determine pathological and longevity effects caused by chronic microwave irradiation of mice. Two hundred males were exposed daily for 59 weeks to 0.100 w/cm2 for 4.5 minutes. This treatment produced an average body temperature rise of 3.3° C. Histopathology was performed on all dead mice in both irradiated and control group. Changes in body weight, in body temperature response to heating, and in the blood picture were not evident. Testicular degeneration in the form of tubule atrophy and neoplasms of the white cells were indicated. Longevity of the mice did not appear to be affected under the prevailing conditions."
"A two-channnel, three-decade counter incorporating digital logic for selecting nerve impulses by amplitude and time interval of occurrence is discussed. The count of the number of selected impulses, their time interval or time of occurrence is printed out photographically superimposed on the oscilloscope trace of the impulses. Printed circuit logic modules facilitate construction, maintenance, change of function or expansion of capacity."
"The technique of electro-oculography has been used to record the saccadic and the pursuit eye movements of normal and cerebral palsied children under simple task conditions. Performance significantly worse by about 50 per cent among the cerebral palsied children, a correlation between performance and chronological age amongst all subjects, and unexpected discrepancies between performance on the saccadic and the pursuit tasks, have been found. These findings are relevant to the study of the oculo-motor system as one of the control systems in the body."
"Blood pressure can be measured directly or indirectly. While direct methods provide the maximum quantity of reliable information from probes inserted into the blood stream, indirect methods produce much less disturbance to the subject. Indirect methods are based on the adjustment of a known external pressure to equal the vascular pressure. Systolic and diastolic pressure can be determined intermittently from the pressure that will just collapse the vessel; an approximation of the instantaneous pressure level is obtained from a surrounding chamber adjusted to remove all vessel wall tension. Direct methods can provide continuous, high fidelity recordings of the absolute vascular pressure via a catheter either to transmit the blood pressure through liquid to an external sensor or to carry the signal leads from a miniature internal sensor. External sensors require careful adjustment of the catheter dimensions to obtain optimum dynamic response. Internal sensors provide the maximum dynamic response and avoid acceleration artifacts. Convenience of electrical signal manipulation, display and recording have made electrical transducers increasingly popular."
"The response of the human forearm following random input step commands was observed to approach at its best the same kind of response as that of a maximum-effort minimum-time optimum bang-bang servo in which the magnitude of the error is compared with a nonlinear function of the stored energy in the load. Tests were made which required the hand to move both small and large inertias, small and large friction coefficients, and small and large springs, with combinations of these. The muscle force was calculated and plotted as a function of time for a great many tests on different individuals. This paper will not describe the average response, but the best response which any individual is capable of achieving. The muscle forces were relatively constant for each individual regardless of the dynamics of the load or the magnitude of the command."
"In both the coaxial and double-barreled micropipet electrodes, capacitative interference occurs across the wall that makes the boundary between the two pipets. Report will be made on a device which compensates this interference as well as the capacitance of each pipet. A combination of vacuum tubes and transistors was found useful."
"This paper describes a supersonic-imulse-echo method employing double-focusing for selective depiction of certain internal body layers. By employing the impulse echo principle, a point supersonic source is focused on the object element to be examined by means of a sound-optical system; the echo reflected by the object element is focused by the same soundoptics on the identical effectively point-shaped sound receiver and is transformed into a voltage impulse that serves for the production of an image. First results of experiments confirm an essential improvement in SNR as was expected."
"Classification of the various procedures of blood flow measurement is presented. The discussion is confined to the recording of pulsatile flow and its rapid fluctuations. The hydromechanical, electromagnetical and sonic types are particularly considered. It is concluded that, by now, the electromagnetic methods are the most superior procedures since they possess almost all the properties of an ideal direct method. Especially, their calibration in terms of the flow rate is independent of the velocity profile. Besides, the sonic flowmeters seem to be very promising."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Fetal electrocardiography, an infant but vigorous young discipline, seems to be rapidly emerging as a useful tool for that biological research and medical practice which concerns the unborn heart. Based upon wide experience, it will be useful to survey the status of fetal electrocardiography, pointing out the possibilities as well as limitations. The significance in terms of capability for early study of the developing heart, the diagnosis of fetal life, multiple pregnancy, origins of congenital heart disease, as well as the study of intrauterine difficulties as in labor is presented and discussed in detail. On the basis of a discussion of present-day instruments and the types of \"noise\" encountered, it is suggested that improved low-noise amplifiers are desirable; it is suggested further that the use of averaging, correlation, and other computer-based techniques may hold substantial promise. 9152."
"Trains of sine waves of varying duration and frequency are sometimes required in auditory research or in experiments where nerve or muscle preparations are stimulated. One of the problems involved in such work is the need for a stimulus which is symmetrical to ground (pedestal-free) and which has a small rise time, so that the intensity-latency relationship can be correctly evaluated. It is sometimes also important to know the phase angle at which the sine wave has begun. A switch is described which was designed to meet these conditions. It uses a \"normal\" transistor in which the functions of the emitter and collector are interchanged periodically by a sinewave oscillator. The paper analyzes the behavior of a \"normal\" transistor as a bidirectional switch and describes how a suitable circuit can be designed."
"The SETAR (Serial Event Timer and Recorder) is an electronic digital elapsed-time recorder with punched paper tape output. It is a multichannel machine and will time and record the occurrence of successive events within a single channel or between different channels. An event is anything which will make or break one or more of the input circuits. The SETAR can directly record behavioral variables, such as reaction times and intertrial intervals and any physiological variables available as time measures, such as heart rate recorded from successive R-R intervals. The present machine will record in looths of a second and take readings up to ten times per second. Due to internal buffer storage three readings may be made at rates up to 100 per second. Events separated by less than 100th of a second are recorded as though they were simultaneous. The principles of operation of the machine and its methods of use in a psychophysiological laboratory are described. Future developments of higher speed recording and extended uses are discussed."
"A data processing system has been designed and built which converts single unit microelectrode recordings obtained on analog magnetic tape into a punched paper tape record. The conversion process preserves the exact time sequence in which the neurological events occur. The punched paper tape record can be used to obtain hard copy via a \"Flexowriter\" and to punch IBM cards for computation on any one of a number of digital computing machines. It thereby permits detailed study by digital computers of such phenomena as spontaneous activity and adaptive cell processes during and after periods of stimulation. The basic method for obtaining the paper tape record is to slow down the playback of the original tape record by a factor of 50 or l00. This permits continuous analog to digital conversion of the intervals by a compact digital subsystem designed for this purpose. The measurements are encoded and presented to a tape perforator operating at 110 characters per second. A code character is inserted at the end of each interval measurement to identify the intervals as: stimulus-response, response-response, response-stimulus, stimulus-stimulus. Other uses of this coding symbol are possible."
"A new type of a swallowable radio transmitter, ECHO CAPSULE, is described along with some clinical experiments. Unlike other similar capsules which have been reported, this capsule contains no battery and is energized from outside the human body. The energy is converted into dc by the transistor of the oscillator circuit itself, stored into a capacitor and then used as an energy source for the transmission of information on temperature, acidity or the like within the digestive tract."
"An ultrasonic flowmeter using phase-shift techniques has been developed to measure phasic blood flow in animals. Lead zirconate titanate transducers are located diagonally opposed over the vessel so that 1-Mc ultrasound may be transmitted alternately upstream and downstream. The upstream and downstream transit times are measured by heterodyning the 1-Mc receiver crystal output to 10 kc, and then feeding this signal to an audio phasemeter. The phasemeter output is an ac signal whose magnitude represents flow velocity, and phase (relative to the chopper drive) indicates flow direction. The phasemeter output is amplified and synchronously detected to drive a recorder"
"The migratory behavior of birds has been studied for over 30 years, but a more precise measurement of this behavior is needed to aid in the study of orientation and navigation during migration. The equipment developed for this purpose consists of eight small cages arranged along the axis of the major points of the compass and opening into a large center area. Each cage is provided with a transducer which responds to vibrations induced by a bird in that cage. A \"count\" is recorded and automatically printed at regular intervals from each cage, giving a permanent record of the bird's activity. Preliminary results indicate the system will provide reliable data on magnitude and orientation of a bird's activity. Data are presented for a bird in the natural migratory state and ones in which this state has been artificially induced or maintained."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A new theory, the intrinsic component theory, is proposed for electrocardiography. This theory is based on the temporal characteristics rather than spatial orientations of the current sources and sinks in the heart. The theory may be stated as follows: the electrical activities of the heart may be decomposed into spatially nonorthogonal, stationary sets of current sources and sinks. The time variations of the magnitudes of all the sources and sinks belonging to the same set follow a single pattern of an intrinsic component which is orthogonal (uncorrelated) in the time domain to all other intrinsic components. The physical interpretation of intrinsic components is new to electrocardiography, although the mathematical tool employed is the well-known eigenvalue process. The intrinsic component theory, applied to a single dipole, provides us with a mathematical foundation for vectorcardiogram rotation, and a better basis for pathological ECG comparison and classification, especially by digital computers."
"A classical clinical experiment, in which periodic breathing is induced in a normal subject by hyperventilation, has been successfully simulated on the high speed analog computer. The model, together with its underlying theory, is presented. Its applications to the study of individuals who experience persistent periodic (Cheyne-Stokes) breathing is indicated."
"Electromagnetic blood flowmeters were first constructed and used by Kolin in 1936 and, independently, by Wetterer in 1937. These early instruments consisted essentially of a large dc electromagnet, a pair of electrodes, and a string galvanometer; they made possible the recording of flow in exposed, large arteries of anesthetized animals under stringent experimental conditions. Modern electromagnetic flowmeters, using tiny, surgically implantable magnet-electrode assemblies and complex-electronic circuits, permit the recording of instantaneous and mean flows in large and small arteries in unanesthetized animals engaged in ordinary activities, as well as in anesthetized human patients whose vessels are exposed during surgical operations. Major steps in the development of the modern flowmeter include: 1) the early use of a sinusoidal ac-excited magnet to obviate the use of direct-coupled amplifiers and cumbersome, nonpolarizable electrodes; 2) the development of demodulation techniques for eliminating from the ac signal those induced voltages unrelated to flow: 3) the introduction of the squarewave and triangular-wave excited magnet to facilitate such signal-from-noise separation; 4) the miniaturization of magnetelectrode assemblies suitable for surgical implantation; and 5) improvements in circuitry resulting in greater electrical stability and freedom from noise."
"A contact lens photoelectric eye movement recording system is described. The transducer is carried on a dental bite and the subject is permitted freedom of movement within the limitations of a trailing HT and signal lead, reasonable ambient illumination is permissible. Sensitivities of the order of 40-sec arc/cm of trace deflection are readily obtainable, with a dynamic range in excess of 56 db. Although primarily designed as a device for measuring the movements of eyes, the technique has been used for other purposes where it is required to measure displacement without loading the moving member."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1962."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper, a result of inspiration and motivation given to the author by the equivalent circuits of the induction machine in all its forms. It starts from the differential equations of the primitive machine and then obtains the steady-state solutions of these equations for the various modes of operation. The equivalent circuits are drawn so as to satisfy the steadystate solutions. The physical model of the primitive machine used here is one descrabed by White and Woodsonl1. The Physical parameters of the actual machine are used throughout the paper. The three main cases are considered: 1. The machine symmetrical only on stator side of the air gap. 2. The machine symmetrical only on the rotor side of the air gap. 3. The machine asymmetrical on both sides of the air gap. The equivalent circuit for the last case differs significantly from that of Kron's. The emphasis is placed on logical continuity in the analysis."
"Results of studies for the application of decelerating resistors for improving transient stability on the Arizona Public Service Company 292-mile transmission system from the Four Corners Plant to Phoenix are presented and analyzed. These studies indicate the feasibility of the use of decelerating resistors for overcoming cases of transient stability at a minimum cost. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first investigation of this application in the design of a system."
"This paper discusses electrical tests made on representative sizes of single layer alminum conductors, steel reinforced with galvanized and heavy aluminum coatings. Analysis of 60-cycle a-c (alternating current) test data indicates that the conductors with aluminum-clad core wires than the same sizes of ACSR conductors in which the core wires are of galvanized steel. The differences are in the order of 4 to 10% less for resistance and 5 to 8% less for reactance. Because of this improvement in the electrical properties, single-layer ACSR conductors, having core wires with a heavy aluminum coating when used on transmission and distribution lines, will have less voltage drop and power losses, and the annual cost of line losses will be reduced."
"The Elk River Reactor Project represents one further step in the development of nuclear energy for the generation of electric power. Considerable contribution is made to the knowledge and experience required to design and construct such a plant in the most economical and safe manner. The design and installation of the electric system generally follows that of a conventional plant. Equipment and materials used were standard manufactured items; however, in many cases application differs from that found in a conventional plant."
"Transient torques developed in 3-phase induction motors, during switching operations, i.e., during starting, during reconnection to the line, and during plugging are studied. A mathematical analysis for torque is given for each case. The expressions are obtained in the normalized form and are studied for various numerical values of the parameters of the machine. An experimental verification is given for the case of starting. Based on theoretical and experimental studies conclusions are drawn."
"A design method for induction motors, based on the use of a newly developed relation between the D2L of the rotor and all normal customer and NEMA (National Electrical Manufacturers Association) specifications except temperature rise is described. In developing this relation an equation-giving motor torque in terms of motor dimensions is given. This is of special interest since it does not involve equivalent circuit parameters. The equations are found to give accurate results."
"Larger transformers have brought with them increased use of auxiliary cooling. Control of auxiliary cooling, particularly for forced-oil-cooled transformers, has become more complex as the importance of the transformer has grown. The economics of cooling below temperatures required for normal operation are examined. Also, the problem of emergency operation without coolers is discussed. Recommendation is for simplified controls and for continuous operation of coolers on baseload transformers."
"During temperature change pressure differences across cable insulations can be considerable. Rigorous relations are derived for the calculation of the pressure differences in accordance with Miller and Wollaston's method. In addition, approximate relations are derived, which lead to less laborious calculations than the rigorous method. Validity of both methods was checked by comparing calculated and experimentauy observed pressure differences in the insulation of a 220-kv cable. Fair agreement was found for both methods."
"A mathematical basis and suggested circuitry are proposed for a distance relay having unique pickup characteristics. By simple adjustments these characteristics, when plotted on an R-X diagram, can be made to assume the shape of any conic section, including: a hyperbola, a parabola, an ellipse, and a circle. Possible applications of these characteristics for protection of power systems are mentioned, with emphasis on use of the elliptical characteristic for protecting long, heavily loaded transmission lines."
"The objective of this paper is to derive, using a general approach of the calculus of variations, time-functional equations for short-range optimization of combined hydrothermal systems. Tests to establish the fact that these equations essentially produce the desired optimum operation are given in the form of three necessary and three sufficient conditions. This paper proves that several previously developed equations for short-term optimization are equivalent, and that these formulas are simplified forms of the general equations developed here."
"Tan δ and dielectric constant at several temperatures and stresses of an oil-impregnated 0.95 density paper, suitable for use in extra-high-voltage cables, are related quantitatively to water content m from 0.08 to 4.82%. At 100 C (degrees centigrade), 100 tan δ=0.24+1.44 m2, tribution of hydrogen and hydroxyl ions from the water. At 22 C, small amounts of water have a linear effect on tan δ, a relation believed to result from the water plasticizing the cellulose. In the range 22 to 100 C, k'=3.8+0.41 m."
"Efficient planning and design of the transmission system depends upon reasonably accurate forecastss of the loads it will serve. Substation load forecasts are prepared by the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) 15 years in advance. For the first 5 years, preliminary forecasts are prepared by months using time series analysis, carefully collected information, and judgment. Loads for another 10 years are extended largely on the basis of judgment. These preliminary forecasts are subjected to three critical reviews resulting in necessary modifications. The sum of adjacent substation loads is compared with larger area forecasts."
"A harmnonic excitation system, as the name implies, utilizes the harmonic power developed in a generator to selfexcite it. By means of a separate stator winding, this power is captured and controlled and rectified with a magnetic amplifier and silicon rectifiers. Protective features are included to prevent loss of excitation in the event of a rectifier failure. Factory tests indicate extremely rapid response to system disturbances."
"This bibliography is a continuation of similar bibliographies of relay literature which have been previously published in the AIEE Transactions. The papers listed include references on the subjects of service restoration, testing, methods of calculation, and relaying. Only the more readily available foreign publications are included. Many of the articles are available in abstract form in Science Abstracts - Section B, The Engineering Index, and other digesting or indexing periodicals, as well as in the original periodicals listed. The listing of the titles is subdivided into 13 sections, depending on the general substance of each article. The entries in each section are numbered consecutively and listed in alphabetical order, according to the name of the first author. Each title is listed in only one section even though some of the papers referred to may cover material in various sections, A list of the periodicals which have been cited and their place of publication is given following the bibliography."
"Polyethylenes are rated for relative a-c dielectric strength by their treeing tendency at a \"standard defect,\" i. e., a needle point embedded in a block of polyethylene and stressed versus a remote ground. The \"1-hour characteristic voltage,\" defined as that causing half a group of samples to develop trees in one hour, has been raised by additives from 19 kv (kilovolts) (original) to as high as 80 kv. Results correlate with a-c step and life tests on wire."
"Two theories of electrical failures in cables, at test voltages, are presented; one, known as the maximum stress theory, is based on critical potential gradients, and the other, known as the ballast theory, is based on critical current densities. Data collected by the Insulated Conductors Committee of the AIEE are evaluated in relation to these theories."
"The current ratio method has yielded good results for ground fault location, however, it is dependent on current readings from both ends of a 2-terminal transmission line. The proposed method is operable from current data, namely, the phase and residual currents, from a single terminal. A distinctive ratio curve is obtained for circuits containing series capacitors, and the method provides a means for locating ground faults on 3-terminal circuits."
"This paper presents a general derivation of modified μ, ß, and 0 components (RST components) and gives a comprehensive and systematic analysis of network connections for various types of unbalances in power systems for application on the a-c network analyzer. Finally, some prominent advantages of the modified components are pointed out by comparing them with other types of components."
"This paper is a continuation of a previous paper with the same title (Part I),1 in which the modified components were presented and shunt unbalances were analyzed. Here, series unbalances are considered to complete the analysis of typical unbalances in 3-phase systems. The analysis is extended to simultaneous faults; the possibility of transient analysis is also pointed out. Finally, conclusions are drawn following a brief comparison with other components."
"A brief description is given of the evolution of control of large hydroelectric stations up to the present time, and also plans for control of future plants, including the John Day and Lowver Monumental plants now under construction. The design for new stations provides the same control in the powerhouse control room that would be provided at a remotecontrol station, and also is compatible, with a minimum of modification, with remote control from a central computer."
"A full-size 220-kv dead-end twin-bundled conductor suspension bus was subjected to short-circuit currents of various magnitudes and durations. Transducers and instruments available allowed the measurement and recording of many physical variables during these tests. Maximum short-circuit magnitude was 30,000 rms amperes. Short-circuit currents cause dynamic forces to be applied to the bus conductors, hardware, and towers. The major shock force is a result of the twin conductors being pulled together between spreaders by the short-circuit magnetic forces. The number and location of twin conductor spreaders have considerable influence on the peak magnitude of the dynamic forces. Electrical and mechanical damage to conductors as a result of a short circuit was negligible. This suspension bus design proved to be adequate for a shortcircuit duty of 10 million kva (kilovoltamperes) at 220 kv, and with minor modifications it may be adequate for 20 million kva at 220 kv."
"The limitations imposed by capacitance of long cable lines upon their power transmission capabilities are generally known. Howvever, the limited relief afforded by shunt inductive reactors is not fully appreciated. Quantitative evaluations of various modes of such compensation are provided in graphs and tables for a wide range of line lengths. The advantages of high-voltage d-c transmission, as an alternative system, are also outlined with emphasis on developments necessary to improve its practicability."
"A digest is given of known factors contributing to the usefulness of highpolymeric resins for electrical applications. General properties such as good mechanical and heat stability, oxidation, radiation resistance, chain regularity leading to partial crystallinity, as well as absence of reactive groups and aliphatic hydrogen are discussed. The electrical requirements are so many that it is difficult to perceive a common denominator. Absence of polar groups, for instance, is generally required for low dielectric constant, but on the other hand groups of good electron affinity are needed as traps for displaced electrons. Based on such considerations, the good and weak points of most customary dielectrics are examined, and the paper further analyzes the anticipated or known properties of new materials appearing on the market, the use of which can be expected in the not-to-distant future. In doing this, an attempt is made to correlate molecular structure with performance, and thus help designers to understand their needs in terms of chemical properties, or to assist in the tailormaking of special-purpose materials."
"This paper first gives an approximate analytical solution to the swing equation with zero damping by an operational method; then proceeds to the analysis of the swing equation in the phase plane. By correlating the maxima and minima of potential energy with the singular points of the swing equation, a rapid way of determining the critical clearing angle and time is given. The results obtained by the methods proposed are then compared with those of other methods."
"A probability method is presented for the design of clearances and number of insulators for extra-high-voltage (EHV) lines. The method involves determination of a tolerable probability of flashover for critical switching operations and the corresponding switching-surge voltages. The probabilities of flashover for various insulation designs are then calculated from data on wind, conductor swing, climatic, and insulation-strength probabilities. From these, the adequacy and economics of the insulation design can be determined."
"An interrupter has been developed for a 50-ka (kiloamperes) 600-volt industrial circuit breaker, capable of being mounted, four-high, in a switchboard with a height of 90 in. (inches), and of meeting unusually onerous interrupting-test duty requirements. The results are summarized of short-circuit tests conducted on experimetal arc chutes containing a variety of metallic and nonmetallic baffles and cooling rods. Their performance characteristics are illustrated by oscillograms correlated with excerpts from high-speed cine film records."
"This paper presents observations and data on various types of film insulations tested under various environmental conditions which show the effect of temperature and thermal aging on the dissipation factor and dielectric strength. A test procedure is suggested for film insulations intended for use in sealed oil-immersed apparatus, whereby the dielectric characteristics are obtained at an aging temperature and under aging conditions."
"This supplement to the \"Bibliography on the Surge Performance of Transformers and Rotating Machines,\" published in 1958, includes 254 additional references from 1932 through 1961. The large number of references published since 1957 indicates that activity in this field is continuing at a high level in many countries."
"This paper presents a unified approach to the steady-state analysis of polyphase synchr-onous machines of three major types: cylindrical rotor, reluctance, and salient rotor. The major magnetic parameters of the machines are derived. Single-phaseequivalentcircuits are developed for each of the machine types. These equivalent circuits may be incorporated directly into the single-phase network representing a power system."
"Field tests and operating experience with direct underreaching carrier Power Administration are discussed. The carrier equipment used operates in the 40-to-200-kv band and is of the narrow-band crystal-controlled frequency-shift type. The relaying scheme as developed has performed with a high degree of reliability, with over 99% successful operation. Field tests, operating performance, and areas of improvement are discussed."
"Two methods are described that enable calculation of transient parameters for simple exponential relationships, whenever certain test data are available. These two methods were specifically derived for transformer cooling and may be applied whenever top oil temperature rise measurements over a reasonable part of a heat run are available. After the transient parameters have been determined, overload temperatures may be calculated and loss of life estimated."
"Variational methods are used to develop co-ordination equations for use in the digital computer solution of the optimum operation of a hydrothermal system with series plants, multiple chains of plants, and intermediate reservoirs. These techniques have been applied in a program which integrates the hydroelectric and steam resources of the Southern California Edison Company for up to a week's period. The output consists of hourly plant loadings which will provide operation at minimum fuel cost."
"This eport discusses the present status in the United States of transfertrip relaying using power-line carrier. It presents the problem, reviews the results of previous investigations on transmitting carrier through a fault, and compares the advantages, disadvantages, and operating experience of various relaying schemes. While operating experience has, in general, been good, it is recommended that further experimental data be obtained and equipment modifications specified before the scheme described can be considered completely reliable."
"This paper presents the insulation requirements of transmission lines ranging in voltage from 69 to 500 kv. voltages, switching surges, and lightning surges which are basesd on 60-cycle voltages, switching surges, and lightning surges which are applied to the line insula-tion under normal operating and transient conditions. Consideration is also given to factors such as contamination which affect performance of insulation. For lines that are designed to be relatively free from lightning flashovers, minimum insulation requirements are determined generally by lightning considerations up to and including 345 kv. For 500-kv lines minimum resquurigreesm, ents are determined by switching surges."
"This supplement to the \"Bibliography on Extra-High-Voltage Systems, published in February 1959, includes 1,011 additional references from 1915 through 1960. The numerous frences published since 1958 indicate continuing high-level activity in this field in many countries."
"A method is given for calculating the equivalent resistance of a drag cup which can be used in many varied applications. An equivalent circuit of series and parallel resistances is utilized, coupled with a derivation of a maximum power equation to produce a practical method for obtaining the equivalent resistance of a drag cup. A sample calculation is given which is tailored for slide rule use. Actual test data on a-c tachometers have shown good correlation with calculated results."
"A basic study of wet tracking failure of insulation has shown that conducting track growth on moist surfaces usually results from a succession of short tracks caused by short discharges. An in vestigation of such short discharges, at controlled power levels, between a metal and a water solution electrode has led to a rapid procedure for evaluating the relative track resistance of materials. The results correlate well with some service experience and dust and fog and inclined-plane tests. Surface and internal tracking can be distinguished."
"Data from an investigation of a miniature system are given on the magnitude and wave shape of phase-to-phase switching surges produced upon energization of a transformer-terminated line. The effects of line length, terminating impedances, and switching conditions are included. This information is needed for the evaluation of phase-to-phase clearances and insulation, since there appears to be little, if any, information published on the matter."
"Investigations were conducted of switching-surge phenomena on the proposed addition of the 292-mile 345-kv transmission lines to Arizona Public Service Company's system. In order to arrive at balanced design and operating conditions with regard to surge voltages, insulation levels, arrester protection, and switching procedures, a study was performed on a system in miniature. Data, results, and conclusions from this study are presented."
"A series of line-dropping field tests on the 220-kv Saugus-Santa Clara transmission line of the Southern California Edison Company indieated unexplained circuit breaker bushing-gap sparkover and abnormally low lightning arrester sparkover on surges caused by circuit breaker restriking. The portion Bf seqweynte test was set up on a system in miniature to facilitate interpretation and analysis of the field results and verify measurement techniques. Significant data pertaining to the nature of surge voltages and lightning arrester and bushing-gap performance are presented."
"Line-dropping tests on the Southern California Edison Company system showed that previously encountered spill-gap operation was not caused by extremely high switching-surge voltages, but by abnornally low sparkover of bushing-mounted gaps. In some cases lightning arresters also operated at abnormally low switching-surge voltages. Laboratory tests showed that a nonuniform gap field and trapped charges on the adjacent porcelain surface rendered spill-gap sparkover susceptible to wave front steepness and, particularly, to preceding voltages of opposite polarity. A gap located remotely from porcelain surfaces was found to be relatively free from these effects."
"Since 1956, all Onttario Hydro's hydraulic generating stations, developed in remote or semiremote areas, have been designed for supervisory control from existing stations. The electrical features of these plants are described, with emphasis on automatic control equipment, supervisory equipment, the extent to which remote control, telemetering, and annunciation is installed, the operation of units with depressed settings as synichronous condensers, station groundinig utilizing reinforcing steel, and how to obtain reliable service power without the use of smallcapacity service generators or separate service supplies from an outside source."
"Economic aspects of the successful application of tapless distribution transformers are developed for the Southern California Edison Company's 12-kv system. Procedures in converting from tapped transformers to tapless transformers and capacitors, changes in operating policies, analysis of voltage quality, and development of the approximate $4,900,000 10-year savings are included. Actual operating results from one large service area are presented and confirm the practicability of tapless distribution transformers thus making the predicted savings possible."
"The first application of power vacuum interrupters to a heavy-duty automatic circuit recloser is described and its performance characteristics are assessed by test results. Many of the inherent limitations of interruption in oil do not exist with vacuum interruption and significant application advantages accrue as related to speed of interruption, maintenance-free life, simplicitv, capacitance switching, evolved faults, foundation requirements, and the absence of any fire or explosion hazards."
"The purpose of this paper is to present the results of speed-Regulation tests at a hydro station supplying an isolated load for small load changes, and to compare the shape and magnitude at the speed transients with calculated values as obtained from an analog computer solution of the governor equation. The tests as carried out were considered unique in that the power customer was able to reject and apply step load changes in varying increments by switching a resistive-type electric furnace."
"General Atomic's High-Temperature Gas-Cooled Reactor (HTGR) is discussed, with special reference to the 40-Mwe (electrical megawatts) prototype HTGR plant to be built at Peach Bottom, Pa. This plant will supply steam at 1,000 F (degrees Fahrenheit) and 1450 psia (pounds per square inch absolute); will have a fuel burn-up of 50,000 mw-davs per tonne; and will operate for 3 years without refueling, Recent developments in the prototype HTGR prograni include coated fuel particles, the single-wall fuel element, and measurements of the Doppler coefficient, using the HTGR critical assembly."
"The generation of overvoltages by current chopping has long been acknowledged as a serious disadvantage in applying vacuum interrupters in inductive circuits. A study to determine the physical mechanism of current chopping in vaccum, and the influence of circuit parameters on the overvoltage generated thereby, has revealed that acceptable limits. It may be fairlpy stated that the current chopping problem in vacuum circuit breakers has been solved."
"This paper is the result of observations made by several Canadian power-utility engineering and managerial personnel during an exchange visit to the USSR in 1961 as guests of the Ministry of Power Station Construction. This visit, plus other sources of information, made possible a review of the organization, growth, and resources of the power industry in Russia, the design and construction of power stations, various transmission systems, and the manufacturing processes of generating equipment."
"In this paper the effect of steady-state very heavy overloads on high-current low-voltage d-c generators analysis and discussion will provide a thorough knowledge of the various effects of extremely heavy overloads on a machine under sustained short-circuit conditions."
"Frequency-response tests have been made on the turbines at the Apalachia Hydroelectric Plant, of the Tennessee Valley Authority, to check the validity of previously derived mathematical expressions. These tests confirmed in general that the mathematical expressions could be used to describe the performance under all major operating conditions and for the direct design of nonlinear power system controls. Hydraulically, this is the most complicated installation east of the Rockies."
"Useful power can be obtained from harmonic fluxes in synchronous machines using a second stator winding. Currently, 180-cycle power is converted to d-c and is used for machine self-excitation. Future applications include use as a highfrequency source for driving high-speed fans and pumps."
"A series of tests were rmn on clean, greased, and scratched surfaces to determine their radio noise aging characteristics. The conductors were aged in the unenergized and energized state. The energized conductors acquired a black coating which was formed on the surface after a week of operation. This black coating stabilizes the corona start voltage of new conductors with smooth surfaces. The radio noise performance of the aged scratched conductors approaches the performance of the aged smooth conductors after a period of 104 days in the energized state."
"The only effective way of arresting ventricular fibrillation in a heart, which has been thrown into that condition by an electric shock or other cause, is to send sufficient current through the heart to contract it. A portable external defibrillator has been developed which uses a simulated alterating current of one cycle supplied by capacitor discharges. It has been proved effective in bringing the fibrillating heart to rest, and has not injured a normal beating heart."
"The design and lightning performance data of the Tennessee Valley Authorty's (TVA) 161-kv and 115-kv sys-tem over a period of 21 years, a general guide for emergency loading of lines, and an analysis of interruptions due to lightning over a 4-year period are shown in tabular form. Maps and illustrations show the transmission system with the isokeraunic levels 1 and various types of construction. Conclusions are drawn on line performance and line design."
"This paper explains the methods used by Manitoba Hydro to establish optimum settings on governors at all plants on the Winnipeg River. The main criteria for stable governing as selected are that each machine will be stable when supplying an isolated load, and that the calculated speed transient following a small load change will be almost critically damped. Methods of finding the values of compensation and dashpot time, and how these factors are measured and checked in the field, are described."
"The lifetime of arcs at incomplete commutation is ta = FLj, where j is the current at which the arc ignites, L is the self-inductances of the commutating coil, and F is a function of inductances and resistances of the machine. Thereby, the energy consumed in the arc is found to be only a small fraction of the magnetic energy that remains uncommutated when the arc ignites. The effect of brushes contacting more than two segments is treated, and the theory of a known method to determine j is worked out."
"A generator, having special connections to measure commutator bar currents and bar-to-bar voltages with the machine running, has been investigated and tested, revealing the relation between commutation and variations in the main field; the influence the rest of the armature winding has on the coil undergoing commutation; and the means of measuring some mechanical factors which influence commutation."
"To dimension large transformers optimally, breakdown tests are carried out on simplified models using a 1 X 5-μsec (microsecond) positive polarity wave. Tests show that the distribution of breakdown voltages of a random sample is Gaussian. Assuming a basic Gaussian distribution, the validity of the area effect can be demonstrated unambiguously. The hypothesis that results obtained by repeatedly stressing a single model n times can be transferred to an object n times larger, cannot be confirmed by the tests."
"The heat rate characteristics of reheat and nonreheat machines, including a rigorous treatment of throttling, must be obtained prior to an investigation of savings made possible by reducing throttling losses. The purpose of this paper is to describe an analytical method and an associated computer program for calculating the heat rate valve loops for multivalve nonreheat and reheat machines."
"Minimum fuel cost dispatches have been determined for a group of steam turbine-generators by an algorithm employing dynamic programming. The algorithm permits accurate recognition of the \"loop effect\" in the input-output function caused by the throttling losses in steam admission or governor valves. A digital computer program has been utilized to compare the fuel costs resulting from several common dispatching criteria. A close approximation to the optimum dispatch was obtained with the stepped incremental method."
"The general machine described in this paper, and also in a previous one by the author,1 includes all conventional electric machines and models of analysis as special cases. In this paper, the typical elements of the inductance matrix and torque tensor are derived. From these, the impedance matrix and torque tensor of any electric machine can be readily found. Examples of application are shown. No Christoffel transformations are necessary. The paper provides unified and systematic ways of analyzing electric machines."
"The practicality of using vacuum interrupters for switchgear applications has been demonstrated by the successful development of a number of prototype devices. Interrupting tests have been made at currents up to 43,000 amp (amperes) at 15.5 kv and recovery rates up to 6,000 volts/μsec (per microsecoind). This has been achieved by resolvinlg many difficult technical problems, so that the vacuum interrupter now closelyr approaches the functional specification of an ideal interrupting device."
"The present bushing standards which cover electrical and major dimensional requirements provide a considerable degree of interchangeability. A standard of mechanical bushing load requirements is needed for oil-circuit-breaker applications. A standard of static loads has been proposed. This paper deals with an extension of this proposal and offers considerations for establishing adynamic loading standard. It also presents a method of producing, by the use of explosive charges, dynamic forces similar to those recorded under actual interrupting conditions."
"A plant designer's view of an outdoor 850,000-hp (horsepower) hydroelectric plant in northeastern Quebec is presented. Twelve-foot spherical penstock valves have double seals. Steel scroll cases for the 171,000-hp turbines were completely assembled by welding in the field. Generators have self-lubricated bearings without oil lift for starting. Highspeed regulators provide for charging of long lines. A 6,000-amp (ampere) 15-kv isolated-phase bus is employed. Transformers step up to 300 kv. Control protection, station service, and accessory equipment are described."
"This paper describes a bus with electrically continuous phase enclosures interconnected at both ends. Currents in the shielding loop thus formed reduce external magnetic flux to less than one tenth the amount experienced with a discontinuous sheath. Circulating currents in nearby metallic loops are greatly reduced thereby, making joint insulation and banding of steel beams unnecessary. Over-all sheath losses are practically unchanged, for shielding current losses are approximately balanced by substantial elimination of sheath eddy-current losses. Analytical predictions are confirmed by tests."
"This paper presents a discussion of the current and voltage relationship during a short-circuit on a distribution transformer. It shows the relative effect on the magnitude of the offset current when the short circuit occurs at various times with respect to the voltage zero and the effect of self-heating of the transformer on the resulting short-circuit current. It also presents recommendations for consideration in a short-circuit test code for distribution transformers only."
"All a-c machines having a rotating magnetic field in the air gap are subject not only to the usual \"twice-line-Frequency\" magnetic vibration but also to a vibration at line frequency itself. It is shown both mathematically and by physical reasoning that this vibration arises as a subharmonic response to a twice-line-frequency variation of the unbalanced magnetic pull. When combined with a condition of mechanical resonance this vibration can become extremely severe."
"The results of tests are presented which indicate the need for a severe reduction in the rating of motors when operated with unbalanced line voltages. Varying amounts of positive-and negativesequence applied voltages are considered. Also, results of one method of calculating reduced motor rating are presented, and are compared with measured values. As data are conservative in that only the most unfavorable conditions for unbalance are examined."
"Accurate measurements of the temperature profiles in the rotor windings of 11 large turbine generators have been made during factory tests over the past 3 years. Up to 77 rotor thermocouples have been read through instrument slip rings during heat runs at loadings up to full-load field current. A new method to load the rotor during factory tests has been employed. Local temperature measurements are particularly important to the orderly development of highly rated conductor-cooled fields."
"The steady-state end-winding current distribution of turbine generators is replaced by appropriate current sheets of the sinusoidal type. By assuming that the end-winding coils of stator and rotor close through the air gap, their respective current distributions are represented by systems of closed currents. Then, the total current distributions for stator and rotor are each separated into four components; peripheral, axial, and radial current sheet, and return current."
"The flux density on the endcore plane of turbine generators is determined by the Biot-Savart law applied to the current sheets representing the endwinding current distribution of stator and rotor, as well as on their mirror images with respect to the end-core plane. It is assumed that there are no other iron boundaries present. The effects of stator and rotor are determined separately and must be combined vectorially for determination of the total effect."
"A study is presented of the forces acting upon the commutator bars and the interbar insulation during normal motor operation. The conclusion is drawn that thermal forces are more likely to prodce high bars than are centrifugal forces. It is also shown that thermal forces acting circumferentially create a requirement for interbar insulation which is both strict and to some extent selfcontradictory."
"A method is given, and a computer program described, for the automatic testing of a power system under critical line and transformer outages. The technique permits the estimate of voltage drops and line loadings for each network element out of service and performs those load flows for conditions which exceed the allowable operating limits. Results from the use of this technique in a number of actual planning studies are presented."
"The lightning protection of pad-mounted distribution transformers supplied through buried cable from open-wire circuits was investigated in the laboratory. Several distribution transformers and field lengths of equivalent cable were connected to form a typical underground distribution layout of limited size. Cost and space limitations in providing valve-type arresters at each transformer place emphasis on obtaining over-all protection from only the cable-open wire-junction arresters. The influence of wave shape, cable length and characteristics, and the relation of the transformer basic impulse insulation level (BIL) were considered."
"Recommendations for lightning protection of rotating machines are presented. To protect the machine turn insulation, which is of primary interest, capacitors are placed at the machine and arresters out on the line. Minimum separation distances between the machine and most remote arresters are given for each machine voltage class. Variables are effectively or noneffectively grounded systems, ground resistance, expulsion or valve arresters, and use of overhead ground wire."
"Power generation scheduling involves the selection of units to be placed in operation and the allocation of the load between these operating units. This paper presents the formulation of the economic scheduling problem as an integer program taking into account the discontinuous input-output characteristics and start-up costs of the generators. A recently developed method for solving integer programs, linear programs with whole number answers required, is successfully applied to the solution of the scheduling problem."
"Starting with a set of linear equations for small variations on a power system, an equation in the differentials of the power at the busses is obtained. From this a new equation for the partial derivatives of the transmission loss with respect Computation to the generator power, or the incremental losses, is developed. A numerical example compares this new method with the B-constant method."
"The factors influencing the increasing usage of static voltage regulators and exciters on small generators are discussed in this paper. System performance specifications are defined. Various excitation and regulating systems are described and illustrated, and their performance compared and evaluated."
"This paper develops the fundamental theory of synchronizing and loss torques in a-c machines at turming-gear speed, and shows the practical application of this theory to the synchronous starting of cross-compound turbine-generator units by the use of the shaft-position indicator and 2-speed turning-gear motors. The steam by-pass method of starting crosscompound units having shaft-driven exciters and no spare motor-driven exciter is also described."
"A chemical modification of cellulose has resulted in a new transformer insulation called Thermecel. Aging tests made in oil under carefully controlled conditions have shown TherMEcel to have much greater thermal stability than electrical grade kraft paper. The necessity of evaluating absolute strength, as well as the retention of several physical properties during aging, is emphasized. Toughness is suggested as a good evaluation parameter. TherMEcel can be produced as tape, paper, and board."
"The correction of the transformer time constant as affected by initial temperature rise and loading is accomplished by nomograms for representative cases of transformer temperature rise as a function of watt loss. Possible errors in computing insulation aging are indicated in an example using the corrected versus the uncorrected time constant. A method is given for making many determinations of a transformer time constant from a single set of data without use of ultimate temperature rise."
"System frequency in the interconnected power systems of the Pacific Northwest exhibits a random variation overlaying a background oscillatory characteristic with an occasional tendency for oscillations to build up to appreciable magnitudes. These oscillatory buildups, or periods of frequency instability, were familiar occurences which usually lasted only a minute or two; where they lasted for an appreciable period of time, practical methods were developed which enabled powerhouse operators to restore stable frequency conditions. Recent studies, tests, and consequent revisions of the Northwest interconnected system operating methods have apparently eliminated the tendency to excessive frequency oscillations. The program involved all of the major utilities in the Northwest Power Pool, and, eventually, affected the operation of almost all of the generating units in the Pacific Northwest."
"The manual development and economic evaluation of many alternate, long-range transmission system expansions represents a tedious and difficult task. To speed this planning process, a computer program has been developed to plan automatically the new transmission facilities needed to meet a particular generator addition schedule. The program uses an economic dispatch to allocate generation, and a d-c power flow to discover circuit overloads. The program checks the ability of the transmission system to meet both normal and emergency situations. When an overload is detected, the program checks a logical sequence of methods of alleviating the overload. Suggestions are made for further developments in the area of automatic transmission planning."
"Simple equations for numerical evaluation of the natural frequencies in transformer windings are given. The constants that enter the equations may easily be calculated from transformer data. The equations are valid for transformers with a high-voltage (HV) cylindrical disk winding, and where the turn ratio between the HV winding and the low-voltage (LV) winding is large. Only the natural frequencies in the HV winding are considered. The equations cover windings with the neutral circuit grounded and with the neutral circuit open."
"Assembled switchgear customer-order development begins when the application is expressed in fundamental electrical units and the arrangement is defined. The basic description is then interpreted in manufacturing part numbers, and displayed on traditional requisition and drawing format. A computer program has been applied to this conversion for metalclad switchgear. In effect, designers are provided with a mechanized catalog-searching facility, and are relieved of some of the drafting, a handicraft wasteful in its consumption of creative hours."
"The problem of converting descriptive input into parts lists implies a common coding that will permit association of application demands with the required parts. A general method has been devised whereby parts and descriptive conditions are suitably coded and their patterns, developed according to the same definitions, are matched. This method has been used to translate metal-clad switchgear application descriptions into parts lists."
"A 2-cycle 138-kv 10,000-mva (megavolt-ampere) air-blast circuit breaker has been developed and field tested. Insofar as is known, this is the first 2-cycle breaker for transmission line voltages. The breaker interrupted both transmission line and bus faults while mounted on the trailer on which it was shipped. The maximum breaker duty was 10,230 mva. It is believed this is the highest fault duty ever imposed on a 138-kv breaker in a field test. The longest interrupting time was 1.85 cycles. The breaker rating is based on the proposed, symmetrical rating structure."
"Whether any load-interrupter switch successfully, interrrrupts when called upon to do so depends solely upon how the recovery voltage builds up across the switch as a function of time in comparison with the switch contacts. This paper deals with recovery voltages in a graphical manner, so that a visual concept of recovery voltage versus time across a switch is provided in resistive loads, inductive loads, and capacitive loads. As a special case, the recovery voltage across a switch in a loop-sectionalizing application is also treated in this paper."
"System overvoltages caused by switching are of interest in insulation coordination problems. This paper treats such overvoltages in a graphical fashion, so that a visual concept of overvoltage versus time is provided in both single-and 3-phase cases involving resistive loads, inductive loads, and capacitive loads. As special cases, attention is given to a neutral inversion problem and to a case of coupled circuits."
"Cougnard deionisers, elementally plane electrodes on the line insulator, are lightning protective devices of controversial theory. Data on lightning outage experince of 14 deioniser-equipped lines have beenl compared with their records before deioniser installation, or with records of similar conventional lines. On the basis of data obtained, and statemets of user opinion, the Working Group has concluded that the installation of Cougnard deionisers will neither improve nor degrade the lightning outage record of a line."
"Analytical techniques for comparing high-and extra-high-voltage substation schemes for 161 kv, 230 kv, 345 kv, and 500 kv are evaluated, not only between voltages, but also between a series of layouts at any given voltage. Detailed cost data voltages are listed. Analyses showing the effects on costs of varying one or several en gineering parameters provide additional guides for such substation comparisons."
"A new way of estimating load on a residential distribution transformer is developed through use of a technique called Monte-Carlo gaming which combines individual appliance-use patterns to simulate peak-day load behavior. A close correspondence between actual transformer loads as measured in extensive field tests and the simulated behavior of the same loads verifies the Monte-Carlo technique. A critical analysis demonstrates the shortcomings of present-day attempts to correlate peak demand with energy use, and it is concluded that the new Monte-Carlo simulation offers a promising, workable alternative."
"For beginners, and those engaged in research, it is very often desirable to refer to some published material in which all previous works are listed in order to avoid duplication. This paper presents all references im the field of optimum operation of power systems and related areas, published in the United States and Canada. In total, there are 436 articles, covered in 52 periodicals, published from 1919 to 1959, inclusive."
"This paper describes the results obtained from a simulation study of electric utility system expansion with various amnounts of nuclear generation in large units. Estimates of capital costs, fuel costs, and operation and maintenance costs are used for closed-cycle water plants from 600 to 1,000 mw (megawatts). The economic applications of specefic plants are studied in terms of present worth of all future revenue requirements. Additional studies investigate the effect of varying nuclear unit availability, fossil-fuel escalation assumptions, and nuclear fuel prices."
"A method is presented for the estimation of a \"probable\" annual maximum collective demand in kva (kilovolt-amperes) for a set of heterogeneous residential electric appliances. The method considers diversity between appliances of different types as well as diversity among those of the same type. It is based on a probable model of appliance behavior using parameters obtained from observed operation. The accuracy of the method and its application are examined, and representative parameter values are presented but not derived. A sample calculation is included."
"This paper describes a simple method that has been devised for testing lamination insulation in magnetic cores. Where adequate technical and economic data are available for each specific application results are sufficiently accurate to determine whether a core is in condition suitable for rewinding, or whether it should be scrapped. The test requires only a few minutes, and the same technique and equipment are applicable to a wide variety of cores."
"Motors are essential equipment in a power plant. Their failures may cause a shutdown as injurious to the system as the failure of a main unit. Maximum reliability at minimum cost can be obtained by application engineering of a high order of merit. This includes adequate record keeping; proper knowledge of ambient conditions and operating practices; thorough study of load characteristics, power supply, transferring and starting facilities; and adequate specifications which do not impose costly nonstandard requirements."
"It has been recognized for many years that well-weathered conductors, after being energized for a period of time, have a dark surface resulting in an emissivity sometimes as high as 0.98, whereas a new conductor has an emissivity of approximately 0.23. The length of time needed to develop a high emissivity with the consequent higher current capability is of interest. Samples from various parts of the United States, with the time of service been collected and the emissivity determined. A conductor energized at 500 kv for 1 year at Leadville, Colo., at an altitude of 10,500 feet above sea level, had the same emissivity, 0.23, as a new conductor."
"A new hydroelectric system (called the hydro-aero-thermal system) for generating and storing electric energy is presented. A hydraulic air compressor replaces the conventional air compressor in the gas-turbine plants so that the turbine can be used to deliver more electric energy, especially during peak loads. The economical application of this system does not depend on a high head between the upstream and downstream levels of natural water, therefore more water power can be economically utilized. The system suggested is flexible, can be installed in different places where convenient, and would help hydroelectric power on a more economical basis. In a case where the installation cost of the conventional hydroelectric plant is high, the hydro-aero-thermal system may be more economical and convenient for both generating and pumping."
"The Glen Canyon power plant has eight 125,000-kva 0.90-power-factor 13.8-kv generators. Power is transformed from generator voltage by three banks of 345-13.7-kv single-phase FOW (oil-immersed forced-oil-cooled with forced-water cooler) transformers and one bank of 230-13.8-kv single-phase FOW transformers. Switching facilities consisting of a 345-kv ring bus using six circuit breakers and a 7-breaker 230-kv installation are provided to connect the power plant circuits to the transmission system."
"As a basis for manhole design and cable training in the manhole for underground power cable, a relation is needed between life to fracture of lead sheaths in accelerated bend tests and life to fracture in daily load cycles in the manholes. The available test results indicate a linear relation between log of frequency of bending cycles and log of life to fracture. Further data from slower bend tests and data on life to fracture of sheaths in service are needed."
"The principles, problems, and solutions in applying negative sequence for directional ground relaying in 3-phase power systems are given in detail. Two general application areas are covered: (1) where system economics do not permit the necessary equipment for zero-sequence polarization and (2) for mutual induction on parallel lines. A practical method is included to evaluate relay operation without the knowledge of negative-sequence voltages and currents."
"General formulas are developed with calculation examples for determining the positive-, negative-, and zero-sequence voltage induced in transmission circuits paralleled either on the same tower or on adjacent towers. For nontransposed lines the induced voltages are a function of all three sequence currents. The positive-and negative-sequence mutual impedance is less than 10% of the self-impedance of the lines while the zero-sequence mutual impedance can be as high as 50 to 70% of the zero-sequence self-impedance of the lines. The conductor configuration should be symmetrical around a vertical axis to avoid differences in the induced voltages in the two circuits."
"An analysis of the protective problems introduced by series capacitors leads to the conclusion that conventional line protective schemes will, in most instances, have limited application on seriescompensated lines. A line relaying scheme is presented which has almost universal application on compensated lines. This scheme, designed specifically for lines with series capacitors, will meet the speed, selectivity, and sensitivity requirements of present-day systems."
"Based on the fact that the ratio of output voltage to input voltage of cascadeconnected transformers varies linearly with the admittance measured at the input terminals, a new simple and reliable method of measuring the output voltage has been developed."
"The corona loss and radio influence (RI) levels from 2 years' testing on conductors designed to bracket the 230-kv operating range at high altitudes indicates smaller conductors than originally estimated will perform adequately. Results of high-frequency tests give values for radiation and attenuation at frequencies in the 10-to 200-mc (megacycles) range. Mechanical observations have shown conductor oscillations which are produced by heavy corona and damp conductor conditions."
"Supplementing the \"AIEE Lightning Reference Book\" and \"Lightning Reference Bibliography 1936-1949,\" the present work lists 452 references on lightning and related subjects. New sections included are \"Books and Bibliographies\" and \"Switching Surges.\" The objective has been a useful document for American transmission and development engineers rather than a complete listing of domestic and foreign references. For the engineer wanting more complete references, the \"Supplement to Lightning Reference Bibliography 1950-1960\" has been prepared and placed in the Engineering Societies Library. It contains an additional 571 references classified mostly as follows: (1) foreign language 58%, (2) foreign periodicals in English 22%, (3) cloud physics and meteorology 11%. The Supplement can be obtained from the library for the cost of copying it."
"A new type of rainfall gage has been built to read instantaneous rates of rainfall and resistivity. Construction details are given. Maximum rate of rainfall recorded during the period May-November 1961 at East Pittsburgh was 0.07 inch per minute. The minimum resistivity was 1,500 ohms per inch cube and the maximum resistivity 40,000 ohms per inch cube. These values are to be compared with standard wet-test values of 0.2 inch per minute and 7,000 ohms per inch cube."
"Representing the arc as an imposed nonsteady (electric) heat source located within a moving air stream, solutions to a simplified form of the energy equation have been found which relate spatial and temporal dependence of the are temperature to fluid velocity, arc dimensions, and fluid properties. Discussion and comparisons, of a qualitative nature, between the results of the analysis and a-c circuit breakers are presented."
"Aeolian vibration causes resonance motion of undamped conductors and eventually leads to fatigue failures. These failures occur at points of mechanical stress concentration caused by ties, clamps, and other hardware attached to the conductor. This paper describes a completely new concept in a damper designed specifically for suppressing conductor vibrations. The damper, based upon sound theoretical principles, has been tested in various laboratories and at field installations throughout the United States on telephone, distribution, and transmission conductors."
"Project EHV was operated successfully and almost continuously at the 500-kv level for the first year of tests starting in December 1960; operation is continuing. A maximum voltage of 770 kv was attained. Corona loss and radio influence (RI) performance were very satisfactory. Corona loss at the 500-kv operating level was negligible during fair weather. Correlation has been established between values of corona loss, RI, and audible sound measured simultaneously."
"This paper presents an ultrasensitive trip device applicable to lowvoltage circuit breakers for protection of utilization circuits from high-resistance line-to-ground short circuits. Circuit breakers actuated by milliamperes are believed to be the ultimate protection against ground faults. It is anticipated that the increased protection against electric fires and explosions will be acceptable by industry, in the planning of new homes, and especially welcome to the family having suffered a serious electric shock accident."
"This paper describes the propagation characteristics of switchingsurge wavefronts generated by energizing, or ultrahigh-speed re-energizing, EHV (extra-high-voltage) transmission lines of intermediate length. The description is supported by field test oscillograms recorded during the past 2 years on the American Electric Power System's 345-kv network as part of a comprehensive switching-surge investigation conducted jointly by the American Electric Power Service Corporation. A new analytical method is formulated to verify field test performance."
"The paper reviews the application of autoreclosure to extra-high-voltage (EHV) transmission systems and examines the relative merits of 3-phase and singlephase autoreclosure. Laboratory experiments for determining the behavior of the residual are during single-phase autoreclosure are described, and results given of tests at a switchgear test plant simulating conditions for 270 miles of 330-kv line. Corroborative field tests and system operating experience are recorded indicating satisfactory performance of single-phase autoreclosure on 330-kv lines up to 200 miles long."
"High-speed ground switches offer a means of power system protection approching that of a circuit breaker, yet are less expensive than fuses. To obtain this protection requires an extremely high degree of reliability and speeds of operation compatible with circuit breakers. Described here is a new ground switch capable of 6.7-cycle closing time at 230 kv to 2.4 cycle closing time at 69 kv. Closing time is measured from initiation of closing signal to ground switch contact make."
"Calculation of the reactance of toroidal windings must be carried out in a way different from cylindrical windings if any accuracy is to be attained. Energy stored in the leakage inductance can expressed by a triple integral. This is reduced to planimetering in the enlarged cross-sectional drawing and two successive tabulated summations. A numerical example is presented in the form of a tabulated calculation which can be computerized easily."
"A metal layer may be required for various reasons between two windinglayers of toroidal transformers. The reactance flux, crossing such a metal layer, generates eddy currents in it. A semigraphical calculation of the resulting losses, presented in this paper, is based on a known formula for eddy current losses in steel laminates of a core and on the author's companion paper-Part I.1 A numerical example explains the application."
"This review of the practices and philosophies of protective relaying in Europe shows the distinctive differences between European and U. S. practices. Greater use is made of gas and pressure relays for transformers, there is more use of complete single-pole tripping and reclosing facilities for ground faults, more underreaching distance relays with remote tripping by carrier, more complete operating records, a greater number of manufacturers in all Europe, but comparatively the same number per country, and greater dependence on international conferences for exchange of ideas. National practices and trends are presented."
"A new method for calculating the equivalent circuit of multiwinding transformers is presented. The method is especially suitable for computer work. The equivalenst circuit includes the effect of transformer taps, bult ignores magnetizing current. The number of junction points and the number of Impedances required for the equivalent circuit are minimized. Thus, the high-speed memory requirements of the digital computer are minimized. The per-cent impedance is assumed independent of the transformer tap setting."
"The so-called cash flow method is described for the economic evaluation of engineering projects in which savings in operating costs are a large factor in their justification. Equations are developed for normalizing nonuniform yearly charges, including income taxes and depreciation charges and allowances, in the early stages of the calculations. These equations simplify economic evaluations whether cash flow or the more common minimum revenue criterion is used."
"The paper traces the automation of controls of boiler-cleaning devices from the earliest patents to the present. The advantages of automation are described as reduction in man-hours of boiler-cleaning supervision, elimination of individuality in cleaning techniques, optimization of use of blowing medium, and increase in steam generator efficiency. Six types of control of the subloop are described. An example is given to assist designers in evaluating savings from automation of the cleaning subloop."
"Equations are developed for transient temperature rise of transformer cooling medium and various types of transformer coils over their ambient medium. These are evaluated on a percent temperature rise base for the corresponding powers of the watts dissipated for transformer cooling medium and various types of transformer coils. Included are the cases of both constant watts input and constant current input. The percentage of transient temperature rise when the time constant equals the loading time is accurately shown for each case."
"The tangential forces of magnetic origin causing useful torque of a d-c armature (further called only forces) are the resultants of (1) forces on slot sides due to magnetic fields along them and (2) forces on slot conductors due to interaction between magnetic fields and conductor currents. Force on tooth is the sum of forces on its sides and forces on conductors of one adjacent slot. The distribution of forces on singular teeth under a pole does not follow the distribution of magnetic flux on these teeth, but generally, the variation in tooth forces is greater."
"A field investigation was made of radio influence voltages on distribution circuits caused by parallel high-voltage lines. The attenuation factors for spacings between lines, between primary and secondary of distribution transformers, and the attenuation along distribution laterals were determined for service conditions. Noise reaching the customer and acceptable signal-to-noise ratios are indicated."
"Economical delivery of power from the terminals of large electric generators to transmission transformers may require forced cooling. This paper presents a method for calculating the cooling requirements. Operating characteristics of typical self-cooled and forced-cooled buses for 13,000 amp (amperes) are tabulated. Experimental results on a 10,000-amp liquid-cooled assembly demonstrate the validity of this method of calculation."
"The American Institute of Electrical Engineers Pothead Standard Number 48 has been revised. The major modifications and additions to this Standard as well as a of the work done to establish the maximum direct-current and potheads are given. Some of the test data, as well as an application guide for the use of the maximum field test voltage levels, are included for reference."
"An improved ventilation system has been developed for the rotors of large conductor-cooled turbine generators which employ the gap-pickup principle. Retaining the operational advantages of the original gap-pickup design,1 low ventilation power, very uniform temperature distribution, and a simple generator assembly, the new construction requires less excitation power, has higher capability, and is mechanically simpler. Tests and operating experience indicate that the operating reliability will match the excellent record compiled by the original gap-pickup design."
"Index of technical subjects and participants in discussions."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The Telechrome-JVC 2-Head Video Tape Recorder is quite unusual and different when it is compared to other VTR's. It has a number of features not found in any other video tape system of recording. Some of these are as follows: 1. Ability to obtain pictures with the tape running slowly, standing still, or even running in reverse for obtaining special effects. 2. Ability to simultaneously record, monitor, and playback while recording, allowing optimum recording adjustments to be made while recording and also, at the same time, being able to make sure the picture is \"in the can\". 3. There is inherently no horizontal banding, scalloping, skewing, or venetian blinding of the pictures because of the recording method used. 4. Because of the design philosophy, first cost as well as maintenance costs are drastically lower than transverse type head recorders; lower priced individually replaceable heads, lower tape costs, simpler circuitry as well as a processing amplifier not being required. 5. The great ease in obtaining still frame pictures allows precise editing to be done."
"A problem which urgently needs solving is that of the tremendous waste in bandwidth created by our present nonstatistical analog system of television transmission. Attempting to reduce bandwidth while maintaining the same channel capacity is seen to yield poor results."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper is a sequel to one given on October 6, 1961, at the Washington, D. C. meeting of the Professional Group on Broadcasting and published in the December, 1961 transactions of that group. The present status of the Commission's New York UHF-TV Project is described along with comments and tentative conclusions based on early results."
"Techniques which are generally applicable to high-voltage deflection tubes are discussed in this paper, with specific application to television horizontal-deflection amplifiers. In an entirely new approach to testing horizontal-deflection amplifiers, the tubes are tested in circuits that closely simulate actual operating conditions. Six separate tests have been replaced by a single test. Carefully controlled test conditions and the development of several unique detectors for these tests have resulted in repeatable and reproducible results. Although the circuits have become more complex as a result of simplifying the testing procedures, cost of over-all testing has been reduced and product quality has been improved."
"A ceramic transformer made from a piezoelectric material such as polarized BaTiO3 can be designed to have a voltage step-up of about 60 at 15 KC/S. The design of such a transformer is described. Equations giving step-up ratio and losses as a function of piezoelectric coefficients and transformer dimensions are derived. Experimental results are given and discussed. BaTiO3 transformers begin to show a strong decrease in performance if the electric field strength in the material exceeds 250 volts per cm. The operation of ceramic transformers at various wavelengths is covered. Finally, the operation of ceramic transformers in vacuum is considered."
"This report contains a description of a two transistor circuit which provides vertical deflection for a 110° kinescope operating at 18 kilovolts. The effect of various transistor characteristics on the operation of the circuit is discussed. The factors affecting the stability of the circuit under varying conditions of supply voltage and temperature are considered. It is concluded that with the exception of retrace time the circuit performance is comparable to conventional tube circuitry."
"Equations are developed which determine the S/N ratio for both a monophonic and stereophonic signal including the effect of deemphasis. A S/N ratio loss of 23 Db is indicated."
"Since phonograph pickup characteristics are usually related to a specific test record, the recent entry into this field of the CBS STR-100 stereophonic test record is a matter of fundamental importance. The salient feature of this record is the frequency sweep bands which will yield continuous response data that can be automatically plotted by a level recorder."
"The pickup described will track with a vertical force of 2 grams, on simple but properly designed tone arms. It has a mechanical compliance 6 cm x l0-6/ dyne and an effective mass of about 1.4 mg. Output is 0.35 volt. A combination of optimum rubber properties and viscous damping provide a sponse free of resonances."
"It has long been recognized that very low tracking forces in phonograph pickups will minimize wear of the record and styli. Another advantage of low tracking force is the reduction in wavelength loss. Two factors tend to place a limit on the minimum tracking force which can be used. One is the mechanical impedance of the pickup and the other is the stability of the pickup-tone arm system when subjected to jarring. Tracking force of approximately 2 grams is usual in high-priced manual players which are handled carefully by relatively skilled people. However, in most home phonographs tracking force is found to be above 6 gms. to insure stability when subjected to vibration. This paper describes a tone arm configuration which was developed to allow tracking at 2 grams in automatic record changers with a low mechanical impedance pickup described in a companion paper. As an additional benefit the new tone arm protects records by preventing damage due to accidental scratching or dropping of the tone arm."
"The semiconductor industry can look forward to an attractive market in the television field with a potential of 120 million devices per year, based on 1961 TV sales figures. Price and performance are the determining factors in the choice of the transistor over the vacuum tube. In many applications of present technology, transistors are superior in performance; however, costs must necessarily be reduced for the final conversion."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"As transistors become available which are comparable with tubes with respect to gain and noise factor at vhf, an evaluation is necessary to establish their performance with respect to cross modulation and modulation distortion. This paper discusses cross modulation and modulation distortion measurements on available r-f transistors."
"Television pictures commonly exhibit non-uniform gamma or gamma distortion and several factors are involved at the transmitter and receiver, including an indefinite transfer standard. Some stations have a linear transfer of brightness to video modulation, others have a square root curve, but as far as is known none is modulating logarithmically as tentatively specified under the FCC Standards."
"It is desirable to use power transistors as switches up to their maximum collector-emitter voltage capability (BVcex). In this type operation, failure phenomena during switch-off have been observed and attributed in the literature to second breakdown, punch through, reach through, pinch off, and various types of energy level effects."
"One of the most difficult sockets to fill in an all transistorized television receiver is the video output socket. This paper discusses some of the requirements of this device and describes a unit which meets many of these requirements."
"The purpose of this work has been to produce an all transistorized line-operated radio which is competitive with existing vacuum tube models. This paper will describe the radio which is the result of this endeavor and show the state of the art of transistorized line-operated radios."
"The design of a broadcast receiver requires consideration of the type of antenna to be used such that the best performance of the system is maintained. In the past, the use of a built-in air loop antenna was common in the design of home receivers and some portables. However, the effectiveness of this type of antenna decreases with its decrease in dimensions. Today, with the widespread use of transistors and the remarkable trend of appreciation of compact devices on the part of the customer, the use of such antenna has been replaced by the use of the ferrite loop antenna. The ferrite rod concentrates in a small area the magnetic flux from a large area, thus reducing the dimensions of the antenna."
"A stereophonic system for television sound having some unique characteristics is described. The L + R information is transmitted as ordinary low frequency signals while the L - R information is transmitted by frequency division multiplex by a method that may be characterized by the absence of a pilot carrier or residual subcarrier in the transmission of the signal and by there being no requirement to regenerate a subcarrier at the receiver to detect the L - R information. Full advantage may be taken of the interleaving of L + R and L - R information so that + 25 KG FM deviation may be allocated to each, yet the total system FM deviation does not exceed ± 25 KC."
"Commercial FM broadcast-band vacuum-tube receivers have been with us for many years. Generally they have been of the relatively expensive, high-fidelity, entertainment type. However, with the advent of competitive transistors having VHF capabilities, the FM receiver market has been considerably expanded. Our country alone saw the birth of 173 new FM transmitting stations in the last sixteen months. The total number of FM stations broadcasting as of the end of April of this year was 988. It is expected that this growth of FM will be accelerated due to the over-crowding of the AM spectrum and FCC approval of multiplex stereo."
"Consideration of the reduced signal-to-noise ratio inherent in an FM stereophonic receiver is followed by a discussion of the design of an FM tuner suitable for stereophonic receivers."
"OTL Power Amplifiers (See figure 1.) The basic types of configuration evolve around either complementary pairs, or the full or half-bridge configuration. The complementary circuit requires a split power supply and matched PNP-NPN power transistors. The practicalities in procuring germanium pairs in reasonably high power ratings exclude this circuit from consideration for the high-fidelity audio amplifier designer. The half-bridge circuit is in most common use at this writing. The variations in design are in the method of drive and the use of either a split power supply or an output capacitor and a single supply."
"Stabilized deflection as used in TV receivers is outlined. Advantages and disadvantages are listed."
"There has been extensive publicity in recent years concerning radical changes anticipated for electronic components. Predications have been made that existing conventional components will soon be replaced with new solid state devices, thin film integrated circuits, and moletronic functional blocks."
"This paper is an attempt to derive just what kind of an age characteristic can be expected of a particular design and why this is obtained. To do this the paper examines the processes used for agc in transistor broadcast receivers, their limitations, their application to typical receivers, the results obtained and the various circuits that can be used to develop the age. This information is presented in such a form that it should assist a designer to go from a performance specification to a circuit arrangement specification or vice versa and to avoid incompatibility between these two sets of specifications. It is shown in the paper that certain circuit arrangements have very definite advantages and that it is possible to design receivers with extremely large signal handling capabilities without the use of variable damping elements and with age figures of merit of the order of 100 db."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Merry Christmas."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The report deals with that portion of the Commission's UHF Project that was concerned with the installation of observation receivers at 768 randomly selected locations within 25 miles of the Empire State Building. All of the television signals observed originated at this site."
"This report begins with a brief discussion of the problems encountered when an attempt is made to utilize fully the dc component of the television signal in a typical receiver. The past compromise solution of using only a fractional part of the dc component is discussed and the resultant disadvantages are described. A new approach, involving the new concept of the dc/ac coupling, is then presented. It is shown that good black-level stabilization is most important for scenes of low average brightness; this is fortunate because it allows compromise with high-brightness scenes to avoid overload of the high-voltage power supply. The new coupling circuit is simple and provides a combination of dc and ac coupling, dc coupling for low-brightness scenes, and ac coupling, with its accompanying protection against overload, for high-brightness scenes."
"Complete performance tests of a color TV receiver may require several man-weeks of testing time when using conventional test methods, such as those specified in Hazeltine Report 8020. A large time saving can be made by the use of two newly developed equipments to measure a number of the more important characteristics of the chrominance and luminance channels of a receiver. The purpose of the present report is to describe these two equipments, their operation, and uses."
"The coverage of TV stations, which is determined by power output, Antenna height, terrain, and frequency, can be extended through use of the which translates the frequency of the signal and amplifies it. This is particularly important in the case of UHF stations whose coverage is more severely limited by such factors as terrain and distance. The use of the translator allows coverage of important ``Holes'' (uncovered areas) in a station's coverage pattern. These devices operate unattended at retransmitting points, and do not change the technical characteristics of the television signal, expect for frequency. In most situations, they supply a better answer to coverage problems than merely increasing station power."
"The design of an FM-AM receiver poses a variety of problems peculiar to the automobile environment. Techniques relating to AM performance are well known and will not be covered in this paper except where FM and AM circuitry are common or possibility of interference exists. The FM problems encountered are those concerned with the design of any good quality FM receiver plus those associated with satisfactory performance under greatly varying signal conditions: ambient temperature ranges of -20°F to +140°F and impulsive interference from the automobile in which the receiver is installed, other automobiles, and other sources of noise."
"This report compares the cross modulation of transistors and tubes in a HF tuner. The results substantiate the theory developed by several authors and indicate that transistors are about 1 1/2 to 2 times worse than tubes. However, it is shown that by using small degenerative emitter resistors, the transistor can be made as good as the best tubes. In fact, by using a 56 ohm unbypassed emitter resistor and forward AGC the cross modulation of a T-2028 MADT is equal or better than the best tube tuners over the entire AGC range."
"Part I offers a simple introduction to the field-effect transistor for those who are unfamiliar with the device. Standard device design equations are rewritten to emphasize effects of dimensional changes on d-c parameters. Failure mechanisms are discussed. Part II presents a method for overcoming effects of high leakage currents in FETs. A d-c feedback circuit (similar to one described by middlebrook1 for complementary transistors) is proposed and analyzed, and a practical design procedure and circuit are presented."
"This paper describes two FM multiplex demodulators which have been designed for systems employing transistorized FM tuners and stereo AF amplifiers. One adapter uses a frequency doubler as a carrier regenerator and employs the sum-and-difference method of restoring the two stereo channels. The other adapter uses a locked oscillator as a carrier regenerator, a time-share detector, and a stereo program indicator. Automatic switching is accomplished between stereo and monaural reception. Performance of both adapters is discussed, as well as design problems encountered"
"A special pentode tube for broad band intermediate frequency amplifier application is designed with the purpose of eliminating cathode degeneration while maintaining the capability to control the gain. The amplification of the stage is further increased by utilizing the space charge coupling between the plate current and suppressor grid. The circuits are developed to move the poles of the amplifier and vary the bandwidth in a predetermined manner. The new tube, which can be used either as a sharp cut off or remote cut off pentode, is completely free of run away effects due to gas or grid emission, and because of its inherent characteristics, the clipping of the modulation from the signal cannot occur. As a result of this development, it is now possible to eliminate one of the three stages of video intermediate frequency amplifiers presently used in black and white television sets without loss of performance."
"Happy New Year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper reviews some of the proposals for arms control which have been in the past. It is shown that although some progress has been made in indicating means for reducing the effects of some of the peripheral causes of war, no plausible solution has yet been discovered for the central problem. Even the definition of the objectives which should be set for an arms control process is obscure. A brief review of the statistical incidence of war by magnitude and severity indicates that the trend to large wars of increasing severity has existed for almost a hundred years, culminating in the availability of nuclear weapons. A recognition of the possible consequences of this trend, intensified by the knowledge of the capabilities of nuclear weapons, has produced the current growing effort to understand the problem and to find acceptable arms controls."
"Short-wavelength illuminants of a blue color are used in lighting SAGE and other military operations rooms in which dim cathode-ray tubes are the primary visual source of information. This study investigated the effect of such lighting on the operator's visual acuity in the performance of secondary visual tasks."
"The rms-error performance of a human operator in a simple closed-loop control system responding to input signals from a non-Gaussian process was measured and compared with the performance of an ``optimum'' linear controller. The results show that the human operator produces rms errors which are approximately equal to those produced by a highly constrained optimum linear controller. Comparison of the error-signal waveforms in the human operator system and the linear system reveals some adaptive behavior on the part of the human operator."
"Samples of data generated by the coding scheme now being used by the military to collect statistics on equipment malfunction were analyzed by psycholinguistic means. Frequency-to-rank distributions plotted on logarithmic coordinates were compared with Zipf's generalization and were found to be markedly aberrant. It is deemed likely that this reflects a lack of sufficient feedback from the users of malfunction data to those who report the data and to those who are responsible for the design of the coding scheme."
"A stochastic equation is used to generate a sequence of pointer positions on a voltmeter dial. The successive positions are characterized by a ``drift'' parameter and a ``noise'' parameter. The voltmeter dial also shows a pair of symmetrical tolerances. A subject and a machine share the task of maintaining the pointer within the tolerances. The task is accomplished by repetitively asking and answering three questions: 1) Is the pointer now within the specified tolerances?, 2) If not, what corrective action is appropriate?, and 3) Was the preceding corrective action effective in maintaining control over the pointer?"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The performance of human operators in a problem-solving situation calling for both inductive and deductive inference was investigated experimentally. The subjects were required to find a common solution to several logical statements whose structure was completely unknown to them. The subjects were required to keep a written record but otherwise the data available at any stage was incomplete. The experimental evidence shows that human operators did better than would be expected on the basis of objective deduction only and that this gain in performance was related to a general measure of redundancy in the problems."
"A sampled-data model of the human operator in compensatory tracking is proposed. The model assumes that the operator's behavior is characterized by sampling, data reconstruction and extrapolation operations. The spectral characteristics of the new model are presented."
"A simple instrument for measurement of eye movements has permitted demonstration of the fact that changing the characteristics of the target-position signal has important effects on the nature of the biological servomechanism controlling the movements. In particular, there is an adaptive predictor that allows the system to overcome its innate delays upon exposure to a regular input pattern."
"A study was conducted to determine the effects of the distribution of the moments-of-inertia of space vehicles on the ability of crew members to stabilize the attitude of tumbling space vehicles. Five pilot-engineers performed a stabilization task on a fixed-base manned space vehicle simulator which was mechanized to provide three degrees of angular freedom. Five space-vehicle configurations were investigated under two conditions of displayed information content. Results indicated that certain vehicle shapes or configurations are more difficult to control and are more dependent on the amount of displayed information for efficient control. Implications of the findings are presented for future design of manually controlled space vehicles."
"A scanner and optical system were constructed to recognize handwritten arabic numerals. The paper describes the scanning technique, its associated optical system, the logic design and the results of a study evaluating the ability of a group of subjects to write arabic numbers within the specified constraints of the system."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new pulse-modulation technique and modulator circuit has been developed, offering several advantages over conventional methods. The technique and circuit are applicable in a broad range of control system and data transmission problems. Use of this method is appropriately considered in any application where dc or low-frequency information is to be amplified or transduced. In addition to both an intrinsically high degree of accuracy and the numerous potential advantages of sampled-data and digital techniques provided by use of this modulator, the modulator offers a solution to the bandwidth problems encountered in conventional pulse modulation methods. Pulse width modulation and pulse frequency modulation both require unrealizable infinite device bandwidth in order to obtain full control of the pulse train duty ratio between zero and unity. The modulator described in this article requires only a finite device bandwidth to obtain full control. The logical development of the modulator principles, based upon the requirements of limited bandwidth and good accuracy, are presented in this article. The mechanization of the modulator circuit in transistorized form is given, with the most accurate configuration discussed at length. Test results of the circuit are summarized. Application of the modulator is discussed, including both theory related to the application, such as modulator dynamic response characteristics and pulse demodulation, and specific applications in space vehicle autopilots, dc amplifiers and servo systems."
"Circuitry is described for multiple-channel FM recording, on magnetic tape, of continuous or transient ground vibrations in the frequency range 5-800 cps. Special features include: continuous amplitude and time calibration of each channel of the recording and playback system, origin-time recording on each channel for use with impact sources of vibration, provision for readout on a direct-writing recorder with restricted high-frequency response, provision for variable band-pass filtering."
"The analysis of random data signals requires the use of equipment not normally available at most analog data-processing centers. This paper describes a data-processing system which has been designed specifically for the analysis of acoustic and vibration data. The system is capable of determining spectra, cospectrum functions and time correlation coefficients from such measurements."
"A short review of the different methods of recording on magnetic tape is given together with the advantages and disadvantages of each method. Particular emphasis was given to the ability to record low frequencies. This review is given to verify a particular choice of recording technique, where the signals, in a frequency range from 1-100 cps, are recorded by the direct-record method at a tape speed of 0.06 in/sec. The playback is performed on a high quality machine operating at one of the conventional speeds (in this case 7½ in/sec was chosen). Thus a time compression of 125 times and a frequency multiplication with the same factor are obtained, in addition to a very long recording time. A tape recorder based on these principles has been constructed and details concerning the mechanical and electronic units are given."
"A precision electromechanical phase meter has been developed to record slow, continuous phase variations often encountered in radio-propagation research. The phase meter will follow phase variations up to several complete cycles unambiguously and small phase variations as fast as 1 cps."
"This article describes the effective utilization of nonprecise tuning components in unique techniques for precise frequency synthesis. Frequency synthesis is the generation of sinusoidal RF signals of precisely controlled and accurately known arbitrary frequencies. Nonprecise components which are examined in detail under the several limiting conditions of operation are solid-state devices, such as variable-capacitance diodes, ferroelectric capacitors, and controllable inductors. The significance of combining a discrete-frequency reference and and an electronically-tuned phase-lock oscillator in the generation of precise frequencies is that it is possible to construct a unit whose output frequency can have certain discrete values. This unit, called a discrete-frequency generator, has an output frequency which is precisely one of the harmonics of the discrete-frequency reference. By using several discrete-frequency generators, each with different incremental steps, combining and taking the mixed output, it is possible to cover a wide over-all range in small incremental steps. The design and construction of a discrete-frequency synthesizer which tunes over a 1-Mc range in 10-kc steps (two significant figures) is carried out to demonstrate the practicability of the proposed technique. The discrete-frequency reference is provided by a five-stage shift-register generator. The shift-register generator is synchronized by a crystal clock which has a long-term frequency stability of one part in 105. The spurious output of the synthesizer is at least 50 db below the desired output. The significant consequences of this investigation result from the extreme flexibility afforded by completely electronic tuning methods."
"The following paper describes an instrument, the conductance analyzer, which was designed to aid in the study of nonlinear, resistive, two-terminal, solid-state, mixer devices (e.g., tunnel diodes, backward diodes, and crystal diodes). The instrument directly measures and indicates the coefficients of the first few terms of the Fourier series expansion of the time-varying conductance generated in the mixing process. The principle of operation, the circuitry, the calibration procedure, and a discussion of the performance of the instrument are presented."
"The paper surveys single and two-channel methods of comparing phase and amplitude of sinusoidal RF voltages. A highly selective twin-channel system for the HF band is described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The need for conducting remote measurements by use of experimental sensors on space vehicles, in an environment where there is often a large uncertainty in the parameter to be measured, establishes a new area of endeavor for the researcher. The conditions peculiar to this problem are in many instances vastly different from those normally encountered in laboratory research, and are related to the over-all spacecraft design requirements. These new conditions attach a new significance to calibration philosophy, sampling rates, conversion accuracies, and reliability. Furthermore, the ground data handling problem of extracting information from the large quantities of data is extremely severe and usually requires careful planning by the experimenters several months prior to the actual measurement. The purpose of this paper is to survey the current and future aspects of acquiring accurate and intelligible information from the spacecraft sensors by the utilization of techniques which tend to be more compatible with the spacecraft design requirements."
"A measurement of the charge density in the F2 region was made in 1962 with an ion trap mounted on an oriented satellite. Orbital monitoring of ionospheric characteristics continued for about four days. Current from collected ions, grid modulated by a triangular sweep voltage, indicated charge density, temperature, vehicle potential and some information on ion mass ratios. The current-measuring circuitry consisted of a hybrid electrometer followed by two amplifiers of similar circuit design. Determined ion kinetic temperatures were 1500°K and higher; ion concentrations varied from 5×103 to 106 ions/cm3 over latitudes of 73°N to 73°S."
"This paper describes an instrument, suitable for space flight, which automatically switches the range of a measuring instrument, and thus makes possible accurate measurements of electronic signals that vary by several orders of magnitude. The accurate measurement of current, voltage, or pulses, etc., that vary by several orders of magnitude has been a difficult problem. Wide dynamic ranges of this type are necessary, for instance, in accurate mass spectrometer or density measurements in the upper atmosphere. The instrument described accomplishes this with low power and in a small space by computer-type circuitry."
"Multicoil induction measurements of the lunar surface and subsurface magnetic susceptibility are under study. Major considerations are the improvement of the accuracy and logging ability of various probe configurations. Special boundary conditions of high vacuum, extreme ambient temperature variation, restriction to mechanically passive systems, simple electronics, low power and light weight all contribute to degradation of the accuracy of the instrument. Measurements in the range of 10 to 100,000 micro-oersted/gauss are of interest. Nonsedimentary rocks range from 40 to 1000 μ-oersted/gauss and the presence of nickel-iron meteoritic material may extend the range beyond the present limits of measurement. The determination of the presence or absence of meteoritic material is necessary to validate not only the accuracy of the susceptibility measurement, but also the accuracy of low level magnetometer measurements."
"Using the Curie-Cheneveau principle, A. Thorpe and F. E. Senftle have developed an absolute yet simple force method for measuring the magnetic susceptibilities of very small samples. In our laboratory an apparatus was constructed so that absolute susceptibilities could be determined by both the Thorpe-Senftle and the Gouy methods down to liquid helium temperatures. Measurements were made on powdered samples of the same batch of (NH4)2OsBr6, HgCo(SCN)4, and Fe(NH4)2(SO4)2·6H2O. Comparable accuracies were obtained by the two methods; however, about 3 ×10-2 as much sample is required to do a Thorpe-Senftle measurement."
"The causes of error with increasing frequency in current transformers of existing design are examined. A new approach in design is suggested and equations are developed from which the performance can be calculated for a variety of operating conditions over a wide band of audio frequencies. Practical details are given of a group of multiratio transformers rated from 5/5 to 400/5 designed for the range 400 cps to 20 kc."
"An adjustment-free peak-to-dc transfer technique is described for making precision comparisons between audio frequency ac voltages and a reference dc. Limitations and estimated systematic errors are discussed and justifications for an over-all ac-dc transfer worst case error of 50 ppm presented. Photographs of output oscilloscope patterns are shown for various conditions of ac-dc transfer agreement for several different ac sources. Experimental over-all comparison against a modification of the Smith-Clothier peak calibration technique is described with agreement on the order of 30 ppm."
"In view of the various applications of nonlinear-magnetic control devices in earth-satellite equipment with solar-battery supply, a low-power-operated prototype design of a miniaturized dc instrument transformer with single-turn or multiturn control has been recently developed. This design combines a saturable-reactor push-pull circuit with a battery-supplied switching-transistor magnetic-core multivibrator. When measuring a direct current in the range 0 . . . 1 a, the four toroidal cores of the push-pull circuit link the wire, which carries this current and acts as a single-turn control winding. The corresponding dc output voltage of this circuit (0 . . . 5 v) is polarity-reversible and linearly proportional to the current to be measured. In this case, application of the single-turn-controlled dc instrument transformer eliminates the considerable power dissipation (up to 5 w) in a 5-ohm shunt resistor carrying the current to be measured. Smaller currents are measured with multiturn control where the wire carrying the control current can be threaded through the window opening for 2, 5, or 10 turns to give 5-v rated output-voltage value for 0.5-, 0.2- or 0.1-a control current, respectively. DC voltages of the order of 1 to 100 volts can be measured indirectly by employing the current range 0 . . . 100 or 0 . . . 200 μa, control windings with 10,000 or 5000 turns, and a series resistor corresponding to the multiplier resistor of an ordinary dc voltmeter."
"A highly accurate Direct Reading Voltage Divider has been developed in which the output voltage is equal to that of a standard cell when the input resistance has been adjusted so that 1 ma of current is flowing through the divider. The range of measurement with direct reference to a standard cell is from 2 to 1100 v. The range may be lowered to 0.02 v with decreased accuracy by the use of a Lindeck potentiometer in place of the standard cell. The stability, repeatability and calibration accuracy of the divider have been evaluated. Results indicate that accuracies of approximately 0.005 per cent may be obtained from 2.0 v to 1100 v without applying corrections. Design, evaluation and certification of the divider will be discussed."
"This paper presents some methods for making comparisons between standards and items undergoing calibration. These methods may be used in a variety of measurements. The purpose is to accumulate data that provide objective estimates of the precision and that are also useful in detecting sources of systematic errors. This purpose is achieved in using some standard statistical designs in the scheduling of the work program. The problems of stating the uncertainty and of combining the uncertainties in a chain of calibrations are discussed."
"Numerous measurements of the speed of light published during the last 30 years lead to widely divergent results as compared with the assigned experimental uncertainties. Because of wide diversity in the methods employed in the measurements, all of the data may not be combined effectively in a grand average. Sufficient data had been obtained by the geodimeter method to group them and derive a statistical estimate of the uncertainty in the speed of light by this method. This result, and conclusions reached from careful examination of several experiments, leads to the conclusion that the value 299,792.5 km which has been internationally adopted for use in radio propagation and geodetic work is very close to the best value and not likely to be in error by as much as one part in one million."
"A system is described which digitizes dc voltages and records the values on punched cards for subsequent machine data reduction. High accuracy is achieved by comparing the input voltage to a bank of standard cells and measuring the difference. An automatic calibration routine is provided. Resolution is one part per million, stability a few parts per million for a 30-day period without adjustment. Contributions of various parts of the system to over-all error are analyzed. Automatic calibration data are analyzed to establish system performance."
"The frequency stability of a radio signal propagated over a line-of-sight path is reduced by time variations in phase velocity along the path. This instability caused by the atmosphere will produce errors in frequency measurements made by averaging a standard frequency transmission over a period of time T and also in time interval measurements made by counting the number of cycles of the standard frequency received during a period of time T. Recent measurements of the variations in phase of a received signal at microwave frequencies permit estimation of both types of error as a function of T. These atmosphere-induced errors are compared to the errors inherent in the best currently-available cyrstal oscillators and it appears that the latter source of error is dominant for line-of-sight paths through the atmosphere. The level and slope of the frequency spectra have been observed to vary over wide ranges with time and geographical location. The spectral form W(f)~f-2/3 expected on the basis of the Obukhov-Kolmogorov theory of atmospheric turbulence has a slope which lies will within the range of observed slopes for the range of fluctuation frequencies from 1 cycle/day to 1 cps."
"A technique has been developed for using a bimodal cavity to measure Faraday rotation at microwave frequencies with high sensitivity. Such measurements yield information about the off-diagonal elements of either the susceptibility or conductivity tensor of the sample being investigated. This paper presents a qualitative discussion of the behavior and use of this cavity. Previously presented analysis of the cavity operation is outlined and the measurements made to date, using the cavity, are indicated."
"A simple waveguide method for measuring narrow line widths of ferromagnets is discussed. The precision reported from the measurement of a single crystal YIG sphere is Δ:H=0.55±0.02 oersted. The equipment used is capable of modification for more precise measurements."
"The selection of a material suitable for use as a standard of dielectric properties at microwave frequencies is discussed, and tests are described which indicate that a glass and a glass ceramic are satisfactory for such standards. The probable accuracy of measurement of the real part of the dielectric constant is estimated at ± 0.3 per cent. Loss measurements are discussed. A correction is developed for the error resulting from the small airgap often present around the sample in transmission-line measurements. The effects of humidity and temperature variations are examined, and preliminary results of measurements to 800°C are given."
"Some basic properties of a proton maser making use of the dynamic Overhauser effect for population inversion and enhancement are reviewed. The long proton spin relaxation times of liquid samples, in the order of seconds, facilitate the production of self-sustained continuous oscillation with high spectral purity. Theoretically the proton maser oscillator should have a spectral purity of some parts in 1014 for an inhomogeneously broadened proton resonance absorption linewidth of 100 cps at a frequency of 15 Mc. A proton maser was operated at this frequency in a temperature stabilized permanent magnet. In preliminary experiments a frequency drift in the order of 1 part in 109/sec was measured. The spectral purity was tested by beating together the frequencies of two proton maser oscillators operating within the same magnetic field. Preliminary results yielded frequency deviations of less than 6 parts in 1010. The sources introducing frequency instability are discussed and their relative contributions evaluated."
"The theory of the Stark effect is reviewed with regard to its possible application of measuring voltages. It is pointed out that the effect can be used only to measure relative voltage and that the accuracy is likely to be limited by the accuracy with which the electrode separation can be determined. Therefore, the most sophisticated types of molecular frequency standards may not be required. The Stark method appears to hold a particular advantage for the measurement of high voltage since no voltage divider is required. Also, two possible methods of comparing ac voltages to dc voltages are discussed. Finally, an experimental Stark voltmeter employing a millimeter wave Fabry-Perot absorption cell is discussed. Calculations concerning J=2→:3 transition of methyl cyanide at 55 Gc indicate that in principle the precision obtainable with a field strength of 104 volts/cm should be in the neighborhood of one part in a million, if the effects of field inhomogeneities can be kept within comparable limits."
"The atomic hydrogen maser is described. In this device hydrogen atoms in the upper hyperfine state are focused onto the entrance aperture of a Teflon coated quartz bulb in which the atoms are stored for about a second. This bulb is surrounded by a cylindrical radiofrequency cavity; When the cavity is tuned to the hyperfine frequency of atomic hydrogen, maser radiation is produced. Due to the large line Q resulting from the long storage time, the radiation is highly stable in frequency. Results are given of theoretical calculations on the threshold flux of atoms required for maser oscillations, on the various relaxation processes that limit the effective storage time and on the possible sources of frequency shifts of the maser. Results are given on the relative stability of two hydrogen masers."
"The design and construction of a relatively compact device for use as a frequency standard is discussed. Hydrogen scavenging is done by titanium sorption pumps having a continuous operating lifetime of one year. The magnetic and thermal shielding of the cavity is described, and frequency errors due to various effects are discussed. Preliminary data of measurements of relative stability between two masers is presented and a means for measuring short- and long-term stability is discussed."
"A hydrogen cyanide molecular beam-type maser has been successfully operated as an oscillator. The maser oscillates at two lines of a hyperfine triplet at 88.633 and 88.631 kMc. The maser uses an interferometer-type confocal resonant cavity. Many molecular beams eject from two circular beam sources radially towards the center of the circle where the cavity is located. The focusers, which separate molecules in the first excited state of the rotational energy spectrum from those in the ground state, consist of two planes. Each plane is composed of radially arranged rods which are charged alternatingly to high positive and negative potentials."
"The factors affecting the choice of a molecule for use as an electrical resonance beam frequency standard are discussed in terms of five sources of error. These sources of error are shown to place serious constraints on the physical properties of desirable molecules. The properties of a number of molecules including LiF, BaO, H2S, SO2 and CO are examined and it is shown that it should be possible to build a molecular beam frequency standard with an accuracy of about a part in 1013."
"Operating characteristics of ammonia masers on the 3,2 line of N14H3 and on the 3,3 line of N15 H3 are described. Experimental and theoretical results on the stability, resettability and mutual consistency of ammonia masers are discussed. A method of manual tuning of the cavity by the magnetic perturbation of about 2 oersteds on the 3,2 line of N14H3 ensures a resettability of the frequency within a few parts in 1011. A system of automatic cavity tuning for a pair of masers has been accomplished which allows higher accuracy. Various types of frequency shifts and fluctuations are considered and methods of reducing them are discussed. Numerical evaluations of the stability and reproducibility of the ammonia maser are compared with the hydrogen maser."
"Ammonia masers are studied concerning their use as frequency standards. They oscillate on the J = K = 3 inversion line of N15H3. Single beam masers allow the realization of a frequency standard with a stability of 2-3.10-11, and an accuracy of about 10-9. Experiments on double beam masers suggest that their use makes it possible to obtain a stability of the order of 10-12 and an accuracy better than 10-10."
"The characteristics of a double-beam maser of N14H3 3-2 line were investigated. In the experiment, Zeeman effect is used for the determination of the reference frequency. The shift of the reference frequency due to a variation of 30 per cent in the ammonia pressure, that of 20 per cent in the focuser voltage or that of 10 per cent in the intensity of the perturbing magnetic field is less than one part in 1010. The variation in the traveling-wave effect by change of the effective beam intensity, both in single-beam and double-beam types, were calculated for practical use. The phase variation and noise in the frequency multiplier and the quartz oscillator were preliminarily investigated in order to improve the precision of frequency comparison between maser and quartz crystal oscillator."
"Following a proposal by Kusch a thallium atomic beam frequency standard has been constructed and put into operation. The main characteristic is that its frequency of 21,310 Mc is only very weakly affected by inhomogeneities of the C-field. The construction, which is similar to conventional cesium standards, differs from these in the following main points: a high (1000°K) oven temperature, high (14,000 gauss) A-and B-fields, an oxidized tungsten filament detector. The interaction length is 90 cm; the Q factor of the resonance is 160 million. The measurements show that the uncertainty in the Zeeman-shift is negligible, while the error arising from an unsymmetrical cavity is the same as in the case of cesium."
"Recent work on gas cell frequency standards has led to a clearer understanding of the capabilities of such systems. The physics of the quantum mechanical system allows the designer to start with a linewidth of approximately 1 part in 108 and with a signal-to-noise ratio, in a one-second noise bandwidth, in excess of 104. Carefully engineered systems have been demonstrated to have high stability with high reliability and small weight and volume. Frequency stability, which is the important quality of a standard, has been studied over a wide range of averaging and measurement times. A plot of standard deviation of frequency stability σ shows a broad minimum of σ= 2.5×10-12 for a run of 40 hours; a σ= 2×10-11 for a run of 15 minutes (¼ second averaging time); and σ = 4×10-11 for a run of 330 days."
"Some factors affecting a long cesium beam standard's accuracy are discussed and the results of two year's operation are given. Increasing the interaction length reduces the linewidth and thus the errors in measuring the line center, as long as the signal-to-noise ratio is sufficient. Errors due to nonlinearity of FM used in servo locking a crystal oscillator to the resonance are below 1×10-11; other servo errors are smaller. The described variable C-field measuring technique and demagnetizable Armco iron shields reduce errors due to C-field uncertainty to 1.2×10-12. Cavity phase shift effects are below 1.5×10-11. Standard deviation of single measurements with 4.6 sec averaging time is 2.7×10-11 under good conditions. Considering all effects, including those of microwave power and of cavity tuning, the stated figure of accuracy is ±3×10-11. Two year's VLF comparisons show agreement to about ±10-10 with respect to USFS."
"Two systems, in which the frequency of a high quality quartz crystal oscillator can be controlled by a servo system employing as a reference frequency the (F = 4, mF = 0)↔(F = 3, mF = 0) transition in the ground electronic state of cesium133, have been in operation for about one year at the National Bureau of Standards. These systems are presently used in conjunction with the United States Frequency Standard, NBS II, and the alternate standard, NBS I, for measuring the frequencies of the United States Working Frequency Standards on a regular basis. The dependability, precision, and accuracy of the servo-derived measurements have been compared with the corresponding figures for the more direct manual method. Although both measurement systems have been found to be highly dependable, the servo method has significant advantages with respect to convenience of operation and measurement precision. These advantages can be utilized with no sacrifice of accuracy. Typical servo measurement precision is 2×10-12 for a 30-minute averaging time, while the measurement accuracy for both methods is 1.1×10-11. For longer measurement periods of 12-14 hours, precisions and reproducibilities of 2×10-13 have been observed."
"The atomic time scale A.1 is based on an assumed frequency of 9 192 631 770 cps of Ephemeris time, and is derived from the operation of cesium resonators at 9 laboratories. Coordinated transmissions of time and frequency make the atomic time scale available. The International Committee of Weights and Measures may redefine the unit of time interval, the second, by an atomic transition in 1966."
"The present nearly universally accepted frequency standard is the atomic cesium resonance at 9.192631770 Gc. However, for many reasons it is not practical to use a cesium device for continuous frequency generation. Secondary frequency standards such as quartz-crystal controlled oscillators are commonly used for this purpose. Recent improvements in oscillator, oven and crystal unit design have produced crystal oscillators which require infrequent adjustment to maintain their frequency constant to a few parts in 1011 (pp 1011). This paper will present the performance of several of these oscillators and the state of the art in crystal unit fabrication and temperature control. The average drift rate and cyclic variations of 2.5 and 5 Mc oscillators will be given. The megacycle oscillators appear to have an average drift rate of less than 1 pp 1010/day while that of the 2.5-Mc oscillators is less than 1 pp 1011/day. The short-time stability (down to 10-msec period) of both types of units when measured in the kilomegacycle range appears to be of the order of a few parts in 1010. The effect of oven cycling and oscillator shutoff on the average drift rate has been measured. The period required for the frequency to stabilize after oven shutdown depends on the oven off-time. The oscillator frequency will return to a normal drift rate within 96 hours after a 24-hour shutdown, while it requires 5 to 6 days to return to a normal drift rate after a week shutdown."
"In the study of frequency and time measurement, it is necessary to measure and often to record the difference between unknown and standard frequency sources. The technique and equipment described are capable of making the measurement and recording the difference directly in parts from 1 in 106 to 1 in 1010. Neither the standard nor the unknown source need be offset. Variations too rapid to record may be observed on an oscilloscope."
"The design characteristics for both Rabi and Ramsey microwave structure cesium beam tubes 17 inches long are presented. A discussion on the effects of the orientation of the oscillaing magnetic component of the microwave field with respect to the steady dc weak magnetic C field is given. Energy state spectra of both π and σ hyperfine energy transitions as a function of Hosc-Hc orientation and excitation microwave input power are shown. The frequency stability of the Ramsey structure 17-inch cesium beam tube operated in an NC-2001 electronics system for a 24-hour periozd is presented."
"The essential requirements for accurate measurement of power at ultra-high frequencies are discussed and some comparisons made with corresponding achievements at low frequency. Attention is drawn to the limitations of well-established microwave techniques and to recent developments in the United Kingdom offering improved methods of dealing with some of the problems and new approaches toward their solution. In particular, consideration is given to recent work in the millimeter waveband by French and Cullen, on an oscillating torque instrument, by Lane, on transverse film bolometers, and by Birch, on a simplified power absorbing wedge with associated temperature sensitive elements mounted in a waveguide. Finally, proposals are made by the author for improved Hall-effect devices and for a novel type of microwave electrostatic wattmeter which should be capable of correct measurements whatever the nature of the load."
"A theory is developed that indicates a Hall-effect device should function as both a collector and transducer of microwave electromagnetic energy giving an output dc voltage signal proportional to power density. Results are described of experiments using Hall-effect devices in coaxial lines and free fields. These are concerned with Hall device output voltage and VSWR of the coaxial line as frequency, power density level, and control current lead length were varied independently. Output voltages vary linearly with power density, but show high frequency dependence and the presence of voltage generating effects in addition to the Hall effect. Considerations are given to the identification and separation of these undesired voltages. Conclusions indicate additional research is necessary."
"A new type of microcalorimeter has been developed at the Electrotechnical Laboratory as the national millimeter-wave power standard in Japan. This is the single load type calorimeter using semiconductor Peltier thermoelements and a standard bolometer mount. The experiment has been successful in the frequency region of 35 kMc, and this method is considered to be suitable for millimeter-wave regions. By this method and equipment, the effective efficiency of the standards mount is determined precisely. The errors in this microcalorimetric technique are investigated with the aid of heat flow analysis and auxiliary experiments. As a result of this, the absolute accuracy of the power measurement in the millimeter wave region (35 kMc) is evaluated with high accuracy (better than ± 0.5 per cent)."
"This paper describes two techniques (crystal switch and pulsed receiver) for measuring peak power. Both systems sample the unknown RF pulse. The sample is then compared to an identical sample taken from an accurately known CW signal. A coherent detector is used to compare the levels of the two samples. Measurement can be made on pulse power levels down to -60 dbm. Neither measurement system is affected by the rise and fall time of the unknown RF pulse. Pulse widths of 0.3 μsec or greater can be measured with an accuracy approaching 3 per cent at 0 dbm and 5 per cent at -60 dbm."
"A method is described whereby RF peak-pulse power may be measured by comparison with CW power at the same frequency. Comparison is made by first sampling the power in a small portion of the RF pulse width and subsequently sampling the same portion of the CW signal whose power level is accurately known. Sampling is accomplished with a fast SPDT coaxial solid-state switch synchronized with the RF pulse. A time delay network allows the sample to be taken anywhere along the RF pulse width. Estimated maximum error for peak power levels to 10 kw is 3 per cent. High CW levels are not necessary since the switch is used in conjunction with directional couplers to cover the power ranges of interest."
"This paper describes the theory and construction of an improved X-band rotary-vane attenuator. A maximum error of the order of 0.02 db per 10 db is obtained as opposed to 0.2 db per 10 db in commercially available models. Error reduction was achieved by careful attention to the mechanical construction of the unit and the reference setting at the maximum attenuation position. Deviations from the calculated cos2 law of operation were evaluated and presented in terms of attenuation errors. A cross-check between the experimental model and an audio-substitution type system showed agreement to within 0.04 db over a 40-db range."
"The X-band attenuation is compared with that of a calibrated 30-Mc reference attenuator by means of a linear superheterodyne detector. Estimated accuracy is ±(0.010 db+0.005 db/10 db) for a dynamic range of 40 db. Frequency control of the signal and local oscillator klystrons, stabilization of the signal power level, and use of a stable IF amplifier have resulted in a drift for the standard of less than ±0.005 db per five-minute interval."
"Experiments have shown that in addition to the well-known radiation pressure, another more efficient thermal mechanism results in the production of an elastic stress wave when an energy pulse is absorbed at the surface of an elastic body. This mechanism permits measurement of the peak-power density of pulses of electromagnetic energy by the use of an energy-absorbing surface, an elastic wave sensor and an indicating device. Analysis and experiments will be described to illustrate the operation of this measurement system when it is actuated by microwave pulses, pulses of light from a laser or a stroboscopic lamp and by a pulsed beam of electrons in an evacuated chamber."
"The phase measuring system described in this paper was developed primarily for the purpose of determining the phase variation along a narrow RF pulse generated by a high-power traveling-wave tube. This techniques is also suitable for the precision measurement of relative phase shifts that arise when the tube parameters are varied over their operating range. It is a two-channel system that employs a balanced modulator to derive an offset signal and utilizes a homodyne detector to translate the phase information to a high intermediate frequency. This particular null technique ensures high accuracy even when a comparison is to be made over a wide range of signal amplitudes."
"The development and evaluation of a technique for precise measurement of the instantaneous carrier phase of a pulsed signal is discussed1. This technique has an accuracy exceeding that of currently available discriminators and interferometers and provides a more complete measurement of the pulse frequency by measuring both leading and trailing edge frequencies. An accurate phase comparison technique has useful application in monitoring the phase characteristics of both active and passive elements in microwave systems with linear, nonlinear, or discontinuous phase characteristics. Oscillators, amplifiers, filters, etc., may be completely described, with respect to the phase-time characteristics, using this technique."
"The increasing demand for higher accuracy in coaxial line measurements and standards, particularly for the VHF and UHF bands, has led to the development of cylindrical metal film resistors of uniform surface resistivity in which the main characteristics have been considerably improved when compared to the cracked-carbon film resistors which have hitherto been used in precision coaxial resistor mounts employing a tractorial outer conductor. A description is given of an alternative design employing a conical resistor element with a cylindrical outer conductor which results in a much simpler mechanical design with fewer discontinuities than the tractorial configuration. It is estimated that with the new resistor element it should be possible to achieve a resistive termination of VSWR 0.996 in the range 0-4 Gc with a ¾ inch OD system. The principle of operation is explained in terms of electromagnetic wave propagation over a resistive film surface in which the tilt angle θ of the electric field from the normal to the film surface is given by sin θ= ρ/Zm where ρ is the surface resistivity and Zm the wave impedance of the medium. A simple explanation is given of the generation of the tractorial and conical systems by transformations from the simple parallel-plate line terminated in a resistive film sheet. Second-order effects caused by field penetration of the resistive film are described and formulas given for their evaluation and compensation."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Accurate dimensional measurements of products during processing are a major requirement in many industries. Because of high heat radiation, rapid motion, or other factors a noncontact measurement system is desirable. Systems have been developed using a combination of closed-circuit television and special optical techniques together with special purpose computers and associated readout devices. A typical application is a system for measuring the length of red hot steel I-beam blanks."
"Through a specialized capacitor we can achieve a device capable of being employed by commercial paper mills to measure and control the amount of moisture contained in a moving sheet of paper. By such control a mill can achieve dollar savings by producing more paper to exact specifications, and with less down time from paper breaks. Continuous monitoring of the moisture content of a fast moving web of paper can be made by using a spray or fringe field capacitor and a compatible electronic system. The basic principle involved is that the area and spacing factors of the capacitor have been held rigidly constant so that one variable is the dielectric. This dielectric is a web of paper that travels across a stationary capacitance measuring device. As the paper varies from a relatively dry to a wet condition the basic capacitance will change as the dielectric changes. If this varying capacitor is connected into a special voltage bridge circuit and the bridge is excited with 5000 cycles, the use of an amplifier, a 5000 cycle phase detector, and a mechanical feedback loop to a variable capacitor will rebalance the bridge to a null condition. With the rebalanced variable capacitor position connected to a pen the per cent moisture deviation of a web of paper can be read on a chart."
"Automatic analytical instrumentation may be classified into three broad categories: instruments which measure physical properties of chemical compounds, instruments which automate procedures of analytical chemistry, instruments which perform a quantitative separation of the constituents of a mixture. Each of these categories will be discussed. The process gas chromatograph will be discussed in considerable detail."
"This paper presents evidence of the mounting interest in electronics as a means for measuring flow by reviewing several of the more recent developments in this area. The review helps to indicate which of the electronic measurement techniques have immediate application and which hold promise of application in the foreseeable future."
"From a small beginning only a few decades ago, the electronics industry has grown to a place of first importance in our national economy. Electrical engineering education has not only adapted to reflect this growth but continually altered its approach in order to provide leadership for further expansion of the field. In this paper the process of educating engineers for careers in industrial electronics is discussed, with emphasis upon the kinds of educational experiences engineering students should now have in order that they may be prepared to cope with the many challenges the industry will face in the future."
"The weighing industry is perhaps more cognizant of accuracy than any other instrumentation industry. Basic scale accuracies of 1/10 of 1 per cent are, generally speaking, minimum, with over-all system accuracies in this vicinity desirable. The two digital devices described in this paper are unique in that they are an integral part of the weighing instrument and as a result, the accuracy of conversion from weight indication to a digital signal is absolute (no error encountered). Therefore, the system accuracy is virtually the some as the basic instrument accuracy."
"Analog computers especially engineered to program and control specific blending processes, are establishing themselves as practical solutions to scores of industrial blending problems. They reduce production costs, eliminate raw material waste and mulitply product output many times over. An important consideration is that non-technical personnel can be quickly trained to a high degree of operational proficiency."
"The rapid improvement in semiconductor power devices and in inverter circuits has given rise to an accelerated introduction of new equipment for the conversion of electrical power in military, industrial, and commercial application Increased power handling capability and improved operating characteristics have made it possible to perform many functions effectively which, until recently, were achieved only by nonstatic apparatus. The ability to convert from dc to ac efficiently and reliably has received special emphasis during the past several years. Developmental models of semiconductor inverters have been constructed, and a number of potential applications have been investigated. These new types of power conversion apparatus shoudl be of use in a wide variety of application areas, including emergency power supplies, controlled frequency sources, and frequency converters. Predictions of future applications and capabilities indicate that the semiconductor power inverter and allied apparatus should be a significant factor in the design concepts for future electrical systems."
"This paper describes a multiphase 50-kva silicon-controlled rectifier inverter that uses phase displacement of the outputs from four 3-phase bridge inverters to generate a 3-phase output waveform with low harmonic content. The output voltage is controlled over a wide range by simply changing the phase position of controlled rectifier gate signals. Low harmonic content is maintained in the unfiltered output wave over the complete voltage range. At one phase position the lowest harmonic of consequence present in the output waveform is the 23rd. Frequency of the inverter output is smoothly adjustable over the range of 50 to 500 cps. The static inverter offers this adjustable frequency, and adjustable voltage power supply with electronic precision. Frequency regulation is independent of supply voltage or load variations and only dependent upon a low power timing oscillator."
"The efficiency and durability of thermocouples have been improved by recent research and development. This has led to a number of prototype applications for both cooling and power generating devices. The inherent characteristic of a thermoelectric system that lends itself to easy modular design and adaptation is the thermocouple itself. Each couple may be rated by watts of power produced or consumed. Examples of a number of different applications will be given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Engineers may be surprised or even disappointed to learn that electronics manufacturers pursuing the industrial electronics market may be as successful as their marketing--as well as their engineering. However, there are many mistaken notions about industrial electronics where buyers are not interested in engineering virtuosity or sophistication but are interested in solving their problems or cutting costs to raise profits."
"A regulated power supply has been developed, employing no mains power transformer, with very low power dissipating control elements, and resulting high efficiency. The size and weight are substantially less than those of conventional designs for comparable power ratings. The mains power is converted directly into dc, and silicon controlled rectifiers are utilized to generate high frequency variable width pulses (VWP) of voltage, for output control, and for line and load regulation. Pulse width modulation is used to reduce line frequency ripple. The system is advantageous for load power ratings above 2 kw."
"A new type of television camera utilizing an electrostatic camera tube of the vidicon type is described. The camera also contains some new and novel circuitry in its dual tetrode video amplifiers and its built-in intercarrier 4.5 mc. sound system."
"In seeking an improvement in the existing methods of preslaughter anesthesia of meat animals, a program of research was undertaken in which sine wave audiofrequency currents were applied to the animal's heads in the region of the skull overlying the frontal portion of the brain. The frequency, amplitude and duration of application were varied. The ability of this type of current to render an animal unconscious was found to be frequency dependent, as well as requiring a minimum value of amplitude and duration, The most suitable frequencies appear to lie in a band bounded by 200 cps and 2000 cps. Amplitude varies with the size and species of animal. Duration should be greater than 0,25 seconds for consistent results. Rats, rabbits, dogs, hogs, sheep and cattle were tested."
"Two basic solutions are proposed for the problem of automatically controlling the in-line blending of petroleum products in oil refineries. Two different methods are presented for digitally controlling the flow of many fluids in an in-line manner to produce an accurately controlled final blend. One scheme makes use of a small, inexpensive, general purpose digital computer which accepts pulse trains proportional in rate to component flow rates, and is programmed to calculate control valve settings in accordance with the percentage of each component in the final blend. The other method utilizes a series of small special purpose logic units, each of which accepts a pulse rate proportional to the rate of flow of one blend component and generates the appropriate control valve setting by comparing the component pulse rate with a pulse rate proportional to the desired final blend rate, as a function of component percentage. Both systems are completely digital throughout and achieve control by means of a total pulse comparison technique. No roundoff errors exist in the computer controlled system; hence, no inaccuracies are introduced by either control system beyond the inherent accuracy of the flow sensors employed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An enterprise, financially oriented or otherwise, needs managers and management scientists. Persons with differing skills, attitudes, and incentive reward systems fulfill these two roles respectively. The manager is identified as a single individual and the management scientist as a team. The ``traditional'' approach of identifying the differences in the two classifications is presented. A method of selecting problems is described that appears to be meaningful to both the manager and management scientists and which serves as a basis for research portfolio selection. The usual scheme for allocating research effort between short- and long-range payoffs is analyzed. This single distribution of effort with little real time contribution and little ``way out work'' creates a negative relationship situation, and generates comparatively low payoffs to the enterprise as well as to the managers and management scientists. A second, bi-modal scheme is outlined involving real time help to operating managers by management scientists, a significant ``way out'' contribution, and an area of cooperative work. This scheme seems to generate a positive atmosphere of mutual respect, interdependence, and cooperative action. This approach takes the same personal and professional differences as the first approach, but uses them to their mutual advantage rather than as points of conflict. An attempt is made to suggest a general hypothesis for cooperative team business research wherein the line manager is a participating member of the research group."
"``Normalized curves'' represent a means of evaluating the relationships of time, total expenditures, subcontract expenditures, and a number of activities and events. They represent data on previous contracts that have been categorized and reduced to common scales. ``Normalized curves'' can be used either to evaluate a summary of the detailed planning and progress on current contracts or to forecast the probable requirements and performance on anticipated contracts. Many of these calculations have been performed on a digital computer since March, 1960. ``Normalized curves'' have proven to be a valid analytical tool for predicting overruns, schedule slippages, and poor planning. Since the relationships of the values of time, resources, and milestones are based upon actual previous contracts, the acceptance of ``normalized curves'' has increased to the point where they are now being used in the preparation of proposals for new contracts."
"A procedure is outlined for utilizing cost-effectiveness as a measure of the economic feasibility of making design changes. The method is pertinent to those design changes with significant influence on performance and reliability of the weapon system, on over-all weapon system effectiveness, and on the total cost of the weapon system. Similarities exist between the evaluation of decisions in the area of weapon systems design and decision areas commonly encountered in the nonmilitary business world. The effect of alternative product designs on potential market penetration, production processes and profits, for example, could be described by either analytical techniques or simulated by ``business gaming,'' or both."
"A procedure is given for the application of a measure of value of radar and defensive weapon control systems. Value, as distinguished from performance, is defined herein as the sum of the weighted integrals of a system's cumulative probability of detection, per unit cost, with respect to detection range over an appropriate interval. The problem boundaries are established as the minimum required detection range and the maximum usable detection range, subject to a restriction on the minimum performance acceptable. An orderly array of such parameters as aspect angle, closing rate, target size, and scan limits is given as a spectrum of conditions of use. The result is a table of the value function which serves to relate what is needed from an electronic system to what is provided by the system. The method is illustraed in a specific example. By permitting a coherent treatment of the entire set of factors which characterize a system and the environment in which it operates, the procedure is a decision-making aid for rejection of systems which give inadequate performance and evaluation of those which are found adequate."
"Data was collected by questionnaire on the motivations and attitudes of 88 research workers in a major state agricultural station. The data tend to support these hypotheses: 1) the basic scientist will be more ``deeply involved'' in his work than the applied scientist; 2) he will demonstrate a greater allegiance to the social system of science; and 3) he will tend to view teamwork as acceptable only when his co-workers help to increase his enjoyment of the research. Some cautions are given by the author about the dangers of generalizing from this limited study to all situations involving teamwork in research."
"An analysis is made, by means of a flow diagram, of the various steps in the evolution of a military contract with a private firm. A second flow diagram traces the decisions involved in the utilization of the scientific and engineering staff in a military electronics company. Several important decision areas in the firm are highlighted and related to long-range planning."
"A survey was made on the internal organizational and administrative adjustments made by companies in the weapon systems business. A questionnaire was returned by more than 40 top executives and was followed up by interviews with 23. The effects of weapon system management on industry responsibility, skill requirements, acceleration of R & D and other factors are discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The affiliate plan, established by the IRE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IRE, but who have an interest in the field of engineering management, to join PGEM. Research administrators and social scientists interested in the research process especially are welcomed as affiliates. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society affiliated with PGEM. Current affiliates are listed below. Affiliates will pay a smaller fee than the regular members of IRE-PGEM and will have all the privileges of PGEM except that of holding elective office. Affiliates will receive the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT. PGEM hopes that the affiliates will help accelerate the interdisciplinary exchange of information in this rapidly advancing area of research-on-research."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A simple model is developed to help explain differences among process innovations in the rate of imitation. The major hypothesis around which the model is built is the following: The probability that a firm will adopt a new technique is an increasing function of the proportion of firms already using it and the profitability of adopting it. The probability of adoption is also hypothesized to be a decreasing function of the size of the investment required. The model is tested with twelve innovations from three industries. Interindustry differences show up. An equation of the form predicted by the model can explain most of the variation among the rates of imitation."
"A project was undertaken to analyze the processes associated with individual creativity in industrial research organizations and the effects of the company environment and management policies on the results of research and development (R and D) activities. Interviews were held with two hundred and nine technical researchers drawn from the fundamental, applied, and development staffs of seventeen private industrial firms, one research institute, one university laboratory, and the members of a creative engineering seminar for industry held at Stanford. One aspect of the study concerned the dichotomy of research specialist vs generalist. Most of the men participating in this study had broad technical and personal interests even though their current job assignments might each involve a definite specialization. Data on a wide range of characteristics and attitudes of research people are presented."
"A first pilot test of a system to disseminate pertinent documents to individual persons selectively has been tried using IBM Research personnel and a variety of document sources. A detailed study of the user populations was made by means of diaries, interviews, and a mail survey. The effectiveness of the system is measured by 1) the percentage of unwanted or \"trash\" documents sent to the user, and 2) the percentage of documents the user wants but are not sent by the system. User responses to systematically and randomly selected documents, both integral parts of the system, were used to estimate these parameters."
"An intensive study of the scientific journal reading behavior of chemists and physicists was made using almost exclusively the direct observation of behavior (rather than questionnaires, interviews, or diaries) to determine what they read, why they read what they do, and what differences in reading behavior exist between the groups. A device which generated an audible alarm at random moments of time was carried by scientists and used to signal the times at which observations were to be made."
"The reading habits of scientists and engineers engaged in research and development are shown to be readily differentiated by academic attainment and field of academic discipline. Lesser but important influences on readership appear to be pay level and general type of work (research, test, or development). From these data, advertising programs appealing to definite categories of research and development personnel can be shaped. An important attitudinal question as to the usefulness of journal advertising as a source of employment information was clearly answered in the affirmative. Junior scientists and engineers seem to rely on employment advertising to a somewhat greater extent than those in more senior positions."
"A study was made of the role of scientific information in the work of a sample of technologists in the British electrical and electronics industry. Interviews lasting up to one hour each were conducted with the people in the sample, using a standard set of questions. The sample consisted of 1082 people in 127 establishments. The term ``technologist'' covered all persons engaged in research, all those with technical qualifications, and all those responsible for planning development work. Among the findings are that the principal role of the literature to the people studied is to supply useful information which is not being deliberately sought by the reader. Its role as a references source is less significant."
"A manual information retrieval system which is applicable to a library or bibliography of a few thousands of documents is described. It was designed for an engineering research program and has been used successfully on several relatively small research programs in the past few years. The system uses a Royal-McBee Keysort (KS-3718) card as the medium of information storage. The coding system is described in detail. The ``keyword'' concept is discussed and an example is given."
"A modest information retrieval system is described for a small electronics laboratory. Initially it employs punched cards, but will be converted to edge-notched cards when the coding system is ``debugged.'' The advantages and deficiencies of the system are discussed. The coding system was developed from key words and descriptive phrases in the laboratory's 700-document collection."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The affiliate plan, established by the IRE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IRE, but who have an interest in the field of engineering management, to join PGEM. Research administrators and social scientists interested in the research process especially are welcomed as affiliates. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society affiliated with PGEM. Current affiliates are listed below. Affiliates will pay a smaller fee than the regular members of IRE-PGEM and will have all the privileges of PGEM except that of holding elective office. Affiliates will receive the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT. PGEM hopes that the affiliates will help accelerate the interdisciplinary exchange of information in this rapidly advancing area of research-on-research."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An analytic technique has been formulated which permits the management of an organization engaged in a number of research and engineering projects to allocate available technical manpower among and within projects. The technique has value as a device to determine in detail where men with specific skills may be best utilized and as a tool to gage the impact of proposed additional workload on available manpower resources and projects in progress. The technique makes use of the basic network analog to designate the sequence and interaction of the detailed activities making up each project. Judgments must be made by engineering management of the minimum essential manning and maximum productive manning required for each network activity to obtain the time-manpower function and its range of feasible values. The scheduled time for completion of each project must be stated as well as the total available manpower by skill, by time period. An integer solution is attained which is compatible with the available manpower constraint and which represents a practical economic optimum. The technique used is an iterative method suitable for computer computation."
"A survey was made of various types of project management organizations used to achieve some measure of managerial unity. Four principal types were identified. The project expediter achieves unity of communication, the project coordinator gets unity of control, the project confederation achieves unity of direction, and project general management accomplishes the ultimate unity of command. Furthermore, project management may disregard existing levels and functions in superimposing its own structure on the existing organization. Project organization requires a project manager with considerable role adaptability. He must balance technical solutions with time, cost, resource, and human factors. He is an integrator and a generalist, rather than a technical specialist; and he devotes most of his management time to the functions of planning and control. Both the project manager and his superiors may need to give more emphasis to the management aspects of his job. To be an effective project manager, the technical man needs to be intellectually sophisticated in the field of management and also to have an attitude which gives some priority to the management aspects of his job."
"The evolution of network planning techniques is described. The main lines of development and the variations around them are indicated. Those discussed include: Critical Path, PERT, PEP, CPM, LESS, PACT, SPECTROL, and SCANS. A table is presented of areas within industrial or military organizations where such techniques are in operation or appear suitable for application."
"The question of whether PERT is of significant value to project managers will not be resolved until the technique is understood to be a tool for a newly recognized function rather than a new tool for an old function. The newly recognized function is decision making as opposed to the old function of planning and control. The need for the performance of the new function arises from the dynamic and complex character of modern R and D projects. PERT as a decision-making tool can best be understood within the framework of the decision-making process. The decision-making framework indicates that assumptions must continuously be made in four areas. The information needed to develop these assumptions constitutes the information necessary for decision making. The information obtained by PERT provides a portion of this information."
"The name SCANS is an acronym derived from Scheduling and Control by Automated Network System. The system is based upon the network techniques developed for PERT and might well be considered to be one of the many versions of PERT which have evolved since its introduction. Although SCANS is described as an automated system and as a man-machine system, it is the men in the system who perform the most important functions of planning, decision making, and control. The machines only perform the functions which would have to be delegated to clerical and computational personnel if the machines were not available. SCANS is not intended to be a substitute for the human mental process. It can only hope to facilitate this process and improve its effectiveness by providing the best information in an efficient format at the time it is required."
"This paper discusses the environment in which analytical methods of program evaluation and review (PERT, PEP) are most useful. The conditions under which these techniques are most applicable are discussed. A number of limitations are pointed out. Aspects of the cost of using these techniques are discussed."
"Realization of the full potential of critical path techniques involves six essential aspects. These are 1) network planning, 2) time and resource planning, 3) optimum scheduling and allocation, 4) progress reporting, 5) analysis and control of progress, and 6) statistical analysis to improve time and resource planning. All of these aspects are not currently being employed and thus full benefits are not accruing to the user. The principal reason for this is the lack of data on which to base time-cost trade-off relationships. This in turn is due to the present structure of accounting and control systems which do not relate costs with the work accomplished. Several efforts employing enumerative cost models are currently in existence or under development which largely overcome the shortcomings of present accounting and control systems. The enumerative cost model collects cost by network activity and compares actual expenditure and schedule progress with that planned in order to determine program status in an accurate and unambiguous fashion. In addition, this type of model will provide the raw materials for construction of the time-cost relationships required for optimization provided that the non-comparability of activities problem can be overcome."
"The use of the probability of a successful proposal in manpower forecasts is discussed. Formulas for the expected requirements and the standard deviation are presented. An illustrative example of the use of these formulas is given."
"Two costly mistakes are frequently made in the management of the support program for a major weapon or space system: 1) Considerations of support requirements are neglected until it is too late to accomplish a reasonably scheduled minimum cost program. 2) In an ardent effort to avoid the first mistake, hardware and software programs are promulgated before support concepts or prime system design have been adequately frozen. The purpose of this paper is to illuminate these pitfalls and indicate how they may be avoided."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The affiliate plan, established by the IRE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IRE, but who have an interest in the field of engineering management, to join PGEM. Research administrators and social scientists interested in the research process especially are welcomed as affiliates. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society affiliated with PGEM. Current affiliates are listed below. Affiliates will pay a smaller fee than the regular members of IRE-PGEM and will have all the privileges of PGEM except that of holding elective office. Affiliates will receive the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT. PGEM hopes that the affiliates will help accelerate the interdisciplinary exchange of information in this rapidly advancing area of research-on-research."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The anticipated total cost of a complex project is placed on a simple statistical quality control basis, through a natural extension of the PERT system of management control. The method is designed to provide management with the earliest possible warning of a potential budget overrun, consistent with the uncertainties inherent in the basic data. The procedure, when applicable, can readily be made to augment standard PERT programs, thus providing an integrated package for the simultaneous (probabilistic) control of project time and project cost."
"The term ``engineering management'' is intended to be roughly descriptive of the management of technical matters, merely as contrasted with such other areas of management as financial, sales, personnel, etc. Decision-theory, which seems not to be a theory after all, is presented in broad survey as a collection of analytical tools and methods, and an effort is made to see if these have any particularly happy applications to engineering management problems."
"Many indices of profitability for research and development (R and D) ventures have appeared in the literature. Most of these are calculations of the estimated economic value of a project, if successful. Their greatest utility has been in the development-type project where the probability of success has been relatively large (pr ≧ 0.25). This paper considers the optimum utilization of a scarce resource, professional man power, among many alternative research projects. Other parameters and restrictions of the model are: the economic value of a successful project, the probability of success, the man-hours required per test or screen per project, the total available man-hours, the cost per man-hour, and the available raw materials (compounds, components, etc.). These factors are used to construct a linear programming model. The solution indicates the optimum allocation of professional man power over the most attractive projects to maximize the return to the corporation. Further aspects of the model are discussed."
"A summary is presented of a study of decision-making in the area of research budgeting and project selection. Data were obtained from three major chemical companies. The objective of the study was to determine if scientific analysis could be employed to derive objective and quantitative procedures in these areas, currently dominated by a mixture of intuition, judgment, and experience. A two-fold classification of R and D is used- ``product research'' and ``process research.'' A solution is presented for the general R and D budgeting problem, involving a budgeting model. A computational procedure for this general problem is illustrated. The special problem of allocation of the budget to specific projects is treated briefly in this paper."
"Contemporary models of research and development are incomplete in that they ignore the many reappraisals and budgeting decisions that occur in the time between a project's proposal and its commercialization. The sequential decision aspects of project budgeting are particularly important since 1) the research expenditure is usually an order of magnitude less than the irrevocable investment for commercialization and 2) an allocation to a project today does not presuppose continuation of the project into future periods. The research and development budgeting problem is structured to take into account the sequential decision characteristic. Utilizing the technique of dynamic programming, methods are developed to determine optimal project budgets when the aggregate research and development budget is either constrained or unconstrained, These models also suggest a rational explanation of the patterns of project expenditures over time that one observes in practice. Finally, some of the shortcomings of the developed methods which inhibit their practical application are discussed."
"A survey was made of the role of the accountant in the control of Research and Development, primarily through a mailed questionnaire and a limited number of interviews. Data from 51 responding companies in a variety of industries include locus of responsibility for R & D budget preparation, basis for the annual budget, frequency of revision of budget, and other factors."
"The evolution of general types of multidisciplinary aerospace systems is considered during three phases: Research, Engineering, and Sub-system Integration. Management methods and personnel utilization techniques most applicable during these phases are discussed. This paper is not concerned with management during the operational use of aerospace systems. In this context it does not discuss technical management beyond the early part of the Acquisition Phase as defined in Air Force Regulation No. 375-1. It is indicated that technical management must be considerably limited in degree during the Research Phase where ideas and concepts, based to a large extent on individual talent and inspiration, are of primary importance. Management techniques must be applied with discretion during the Engineering Phase. Here the breadth of technical coverage required for subsystem engineering is such that teams or groups of technical experts provide a useful tool. The talent and initiative of the individual team members is quite important during this phase. Scheduling is also important and cannot be overlooked. A maximum degree of technical management is required during the Subsystem Integration Phase of the over-all system evolution. Here programming or scheduling is of primary importance. Procedures such as PERT are useful management aids and should be applied as much as practicable during this phase."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This Cumulative Index covers Volume EM-7, 1960, Volume EM-8, 1961, and Volume EM-9, 1962. Provides an index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current and past Chairmen."
"Presents a brief biography of George B. Wareham. Since 1951 he has been with the Research and Developmenit Boarcl and the organizations which have succeeded it in the Departmenit of Defense. He is currently Chief of the Equipmenit and Supplies Division in the Office of the Director of Defense Research and Enginieering, Washington, D. C. For the last several years he has been working with the military departments to achieve a research and engineerinig program in directenergy conversiotn which will provide the power needed by the many new weapons systems and space vehicles."
"The present state of the art of silicon solar cells is described. The physical properties, circuit performance, and current lines of research are summarized. Silicon is seen to be competitive in several of the newer approaches to solar cell improvement."
"The charged-particle intensity and energy distribution at the heart of the inner and outer Van Allen belts is compared with the experimentally determined radiation sensitivity of silicon solar cells. Energy dependence of the radiation damage and solar-cell characteristics is included in the lifetime estimate of spacecraft solar cells. Use of charged-particle range-energy relations and the differential intensity of the Van Allen radiation results in an estimated effectiveness of thin protective shields. Comparative advantages of thin shields, advanced cell designs, solar efficiency, and solar-cell system over-design are discussed with respect to radiation resistance of spacecraft power supplies."
"Gallium-arsenide solar cells having conversion-efficiency values greater than 11 per cent are described. Crystalline properties of gallium arsenide are discussed, and cell design considerations are given. Gallium arsenide provides several advantages over silicon in the fabrication of high-efficiency cells having improved temperature characteristics and higher radiation-resistance properties. Typical cell characteristics are presented and compared with those of silicon cells. In addition, data are given to show the effects on gallium arsenide cells of incident solar energy, temperature, radiation, and life."
"Of the several processes by which heat is directly transformed to useful electric power thermoelectricity offers unique advantages for several areas of application. The absence of moving parts and the simplicity promise high reliability, silence, and long-lived, maintenance-free operation both as a power source and as a heat pump for refrigeration and temperature control. A substantial effort devoted to materials development has produced new semiconductors with an integrated theoretical efficiency of about 20 per cent. Further progress in materials development is needed to achieve major goals in both military and commercial applications, but important uses can already be visualized. Small power plants for remote areas and auxiliary power supplies for space vehicles are awaiting engineering improvements, some of which again require improved materials for use as electrical contacts and electrical and thermal insulators. Similarly in refrigeration, important military applications and special commercial devices can be produced with existing thermoelectric materials when engineering problems and the auxiliary materials problems are solved."
"Many of the practical problems that are encountered in building present-day generators are illustrated. A design procedure for free convection air-cooled generators is described. The performance of power thermocouples as a function of junction temperature is discussed and curves illustrating couple efficiency, power output, heat flux and voltage as a function of hot junction temperature are shown. The effects of varying thermocouple length on generator efficiency and generator specific power are shown graphically and methods of predicting generator performance are illustrated for thermoelectric materials of equal figures of merit but different values of thermal conductivity. The paper also discusses free convection heat exchangers and fossil-fuel burners. The thermoelectric generator preformance on a watts-per-pound basis is compared with battery-and gasoline-engine-driven generator performance for specific missions."
"After a brief discussion of fundamental principles, a family tree of the different types of thermionic converters is presented. The status of individual conversion techniques is then reviewed. A description of the materials problems is given. The paper concludes with projections of development and performance trends of the most important types of thermionic converters."
"A comparison is drawn between the theoretical efficiencies of heat engines and fuel cells in the conversion of chemical to electrical energy. The electrochemical principles governing the operation of fuel cells are discussed. Short descriptions, including performance curves, are given of a few selected fuel-cell types including low-, intermediate-, and high-temperature cells, and redox and regenerative cells. An example is given of a rough calculation of battery and fuel weight and volume for a given power level and total energy demand."
"It has been shown that a catalytic effect can be produced on oxygen fuel-cell electrodes by the incorporation of radioactive isotopes into the electrode structure. Experiments with ß emitters have resulted in low temperature and pressure silver electrodes capable of high current drains at favorable polarization values. Analysis of the data indicates support for the hypothesis that radiations exert a significant effect on diffusion control within the pores of the electrode."
"The regenerative hydrogen-oxygen ion-exchange membrane fuel cell is especially suitable for use in space power systems. During discharge, the anode reaction is H2+20H-→2H2O+2e. The electrons pass out of the fuel cell at the anode to the load, then re-enter at the cathode. The cathode reaction is ½ 02+H2O+2e →20H-. The hydroxyl ions pass through the membrane to the anode; the electrical circuit is thus completed. The cell reaction is H2+½02→H2O. During charge, electrical energy is furnished to the fuel cell and water is electrolyzed into hydrogen and oxygen. Single cells have been cycled continuously for several months without significant decreases in performance. The electrochemical efficiencies ampere-minutes out/ampere-minutes in are 95 to 100 per cent and the energy efficiencies watt-minutes out/watt-minutes in are as high as 50 per cent. Cells have been operated initially at current densities of 38 and 100 a per square foot at 0.8 and 0.6 v, respectively. Multicell units have been built and tested. Experimental fuel-cell batteries have been tested under zero-gravity conditions in aircraft and have been flown in missile flights. The results have shown that this fuel cell operates satisfactorily in the environment of outer space."
"The galvanic battery is the most highly developed means of storing electrical energy today. In satellite and space-vehicle applications where auxiliary electrical power is required for extended periods of time, it has been found that the most feasible power supply currently available consists of silicon solar cells used in conjunction with sealed nickel-cadmium storage batteries. They are capable of thousands of repeated cycles and have an energy output of about 12 watt-hours per pound. Sealed silver-cadmium cells are of interest because of their higher output, 24 watt-hours per pound, but they are not as far developed, nor do they as yet have the cycle life of nickel-cadmium cells. In the development of hermetically-sealed nickel-cadmium batteries, the following areas have received considerable attention: 1) Hermetic seal, 2) Continuous overcharge capability and low internal cell pressure, 3) Separator, and 4) Cycle life. In the development of hermetically-sealed silver-cadmium cells, four technical problems have received considerable attention: 1) Separator, 2) Improved silver electrode capable of delivering energy at the Ag+II potential, 3) Continuous overcharge capability, and 4) Cycle life. Although other direct-energy conversion systems appear to be promising and are being intensively developed, it is expected that the nickel-cadmium and silver-cadmium storage batteries will continue to be of importance for many years to come."
"The selection of new anode-cathode combinations for primary cells is described on the basis of ampere-hour capacity, theoretical and operating potential, handling properties with respect to the design of primary batteries, and limitations placed on the selection of active components by unusual electrolyte requirements. Theoretically, for the design of dry and reserve primary cells, the most desirable anode materials are magnesium and aluminum; the most desirable cathode materials are the nitro-organic compounds, N-halogen organic compounds, silver (II) oxide, copper (II) oxide, nickel oxide, and mercuric oxide. Such other possible anode materials as titanium, alkali metals, and hydrocarbons, and cathode materials such as oxygen, sulfur, halogens, oxides, and chlorides, are also considered. A magnesium/magnesium perchlorate/m-dinitrobenzene dry cell with an experimental capacity of 90 wh/lb and estimated maximum available capacity of 150 wh/lb is described. The basic relationships between the cathode potential of aromatic nitro compounds and the nature of substitution groups are illustrated. The development of high-capacity dry cells with a perchlorate electrolyte, a magnesium anode, and a cupric oxide or synthetic manganese dioxide cathode is described. The capacity of a magnesium/magnesium perchlorate/mercuric oxide cell on a 30-minute discharge rate with a voltage tolerance of ±5 per cent is 50 wh/lb and 3.0 wh/cubic in."
"The paper opens with a review and discussion of the basic principles of MHD power generation. It is seen that the MHD generator operates in a manner similar to that of a conventional generator in that the \"armature\" of the MHD is a hot, high-speed electrically-conducting gas, while the force or torque-required to move a metallic conductor through a field is replaced by a pressure gradient in the gaseous armature. Thus the functions of turbine and generator are combined in a single machine. Because this machine has no moving parts, it can, in principle, accept a working fluid at very high temperature. After a derivation of the basic MHD-generator flow equations a brief synopsis of losses in an MHD generator is given. The nature of these losses is such that the MHD generator is applicable where large amounts of power are involved. In gases, the Hall effect can be very pronounced, and its influence on MHD generator design and performance is pointed out. There follows a brief statement of the state of the art in MHD-generator development at the Avco-Everett Research Laboratory. It is shown that gases produced by conventional heat sources can be made adequate conductors of electricity for use in an MHD if a small amount of easily ionizable impurity called seed is added to the gas. Recent developments in superconducting materials, plus detailed studies of MHD-generator fluid mechanics in a large combustion-driven generator point to early realization of the potential of MHD."
"For operational purposes, solar-cell power systems are being used in the 30 or 40 different spacecraft now planned for flight. The range of power is from 15 to 500 watts. Both nonorientation and orientation of paddles to the sun are being used. An approximate break-even point between excessive weight of solar cells for nonoriented systems and weight of the orientation servomechanism system for solar-oriented systems occurs for a power level of 100 watts. Nickel-cadmium batteries have been used for the storage of electrical energy, whether for providing power during shadow periods encountered by low-altitude spacecraft or providing peak power during telemetry for interplanetary flights. The specific weight of such power systems varies from 750 or 1000 lb/kw to 500 lb/kw for orbits from 300 miles (statute) to 22,000 miles (synchronous orbit). Reduction in weight of batteries as well as solar cells needed for battery charging as altitude increases is responsible for this decrease in specific weight because of the decreasing time of shadow encountered by an orbiting spacecraft."
"A survey is made of the present status of technology of solar photovoltaic, photoemissive, thermoelectric and thermionic power systems for spacecraft. The subjects of radiation damage to solar cells, power-system design, and solar simulation are reviewed. Various types of solar power systems are discussed and compared with respect to weight, availability, environmental tolerance, and cost. It is concluded that solar photovoltaic and solar thermionic systems are most desirable for power levels up to 3 kw. However, the life capability of thermionic converters has not yet been established. Solar thermoelectric and photoemissive systems will be less desirable because of their lower efficiency and, therefore, larger area per unit power output, except for missions where radiation resistance or economy are paramount considerations."
"Designed for the initial application of supplying power for an under-sea seismic station to be supervised by Lamont Geological Observatory researchers, this cesium generator incorporates an external shell that will withstand compressive forces at the greatest of ocean depths and a power-conversion system employing lead telluride thermocouples mounted on a printed circuit board. A combination radiation shield and heat sink surrounded by a special complex of thermal relectors and compacted insulation, utilizes practically all of the decay heat. Avery high degree of safety from radioactivity is assured, due to double encapsulation of fuel increments, an ultrastrong radiation shield for containment of the latter, and an external shell that will withstand 16,000 psi pressure."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents a brief biography of Alton W. Sissom . Dr. Sissom is a member of Eta Kappa Nu, Tau Beta Pi, American Rocket Society, and the American Ordnance Association. He is a Registered Professional Engineer in Texas and is in the U. S. Army active reserve."
"This paper describes some of the early developments in the synthetic aperture technique for radar application. The basic principle and later extensions to the theory are described. The results of the first experimental verification at the University of Illinois are given as well as the results of subsequent experiments. The paper also includes a section comparing some of the important features of real and synthetic aperture systems."
"The equivalence of the vector addition, cross-correlation, and filtering approaches to deriving synthetic array patterns and analyzing processing techniques is demonstrated here. A mathematical model is defined which establishes a geometry, a transmitted and received signal, and a general synthetic array weighting function. A preliminary analysis of this model derives the signals received at the flight-path points where radar pulse transmission and reception occurred, and the effects at these flight-path points of the synthetic array weighting function. The weighted, received signal expression is then summed over the array, and the resultant shown to be a vector addition, a cross-correlation integral, or a filtering operation depending on the changes of variable and formal manipulations employed."
"In the discussion of techniques for achieving azimuth resolution, it is instructive to compare the achievable resolution for three cases: 1) the conventional case for which λR Res = k / D 2) the unfocussed synthetic antenna case for which Res = k√λR 3) the focussed synthetic antenna case for which Res = kD where λ is wavelength, D is aperture of physical antenna used, and R is range, and the k's are constants of proportionality. These cases are compared. It is shown for unfocussed synthetic antennas that there is a maximum length which depends on range and wavelength. This restriction on length can be removed by focussing. A number of degrees of freedom exist for the design of a synthetic antenna which are not available for a real linear array. Among these is the ability to focus simultaneously at all ranges."
"The results of an analysis of synthetic array gain patterns, including sidelobe response, are summarized. Both focused and unfocused arrays are examined. The phase time history of echos from reflectors on the ground as a function of position is used to modify the equations for the broadside synthetic array for application to forward-looking antenna arrays. The dependence of the ``optimal'' length and resolution of an unfocused array on the look angle is derived. The gain patterns of unfocused synthetic arrays are presented for arrays of various lengths with both rectangular and exponential amplitude weighting. Calculations are made showing that the physical antenna gain pattern acts as amplitude weighting with resultant sidelobe suppression and illustrating that the final gain pattern cannot be expressed as the product of the space factor of the array times the real antenna gain pattern. However, unless the length of the synthetic array is about equal to or greater than the real antenna beamwidth times the range, the product approximation error is negligible in the region near the main lobe and amounts to a reduction in gain. The results of this analysis are then put in the form of design curves from which such parameters as the maximum resolution of an unfocused array and the length of array necessary for a given resolution at a given frequency can be obtained."
"In the practical formation of synthetic array patterns the individual signals which are integrated to form the array will sustain uncompensated phase shifts. If these uncompensated phase shifts are deterministic, the evaluation of their effect on the synthetic array radiation pattern is straightforward. On the other hand, if the uncompensated phase shifts are random, such as would be produced by propagation anomalies, a statistical study must be made to determine statistical measures of the effects on the radiation pattern. Part I describes an analytical study of the effects of normally distributed random phase errors on synthetic array performance. The statistical measures of performance derived include expected beam broadening, rms beam canting, and expected loss in peak gain. The analysis is limited to the case of small rms difference in phase error across the array. Part II describes a Monte Carlo simulation study which removed the restriction of small rms phase error difference. In addition, the simulated radiation pattems generated in the simulation study allowed the computation of the statistics of the ratio of main lobe to integrated sidelobe power. This performance parameter is, in general, the most sensitive of all the performance measures to residual uncompensated phase errors."
"Phase monopulse, amplitude monopulse, and phase-amplitude monopulse are compared. The latter uses only two antenna feeds and by controlling the aperture illumination from these feeds has a separation of the illumination phase centers in one axis and opposed tilts of the phase fronts, or squint, in the other axis. It is described as more fundamental or less redundant than four-horn or other multihorn monopulse designs. In lacking redundancy it is less complex, but has fewer degrees of freedom to optimize performance. The earliest example of phase-amplitude monopulse, the AN/APG-25 (XN-2), is described and its performance given."
"A new monopulse radar signal processing technique is described, which requires only a single IF amplifer channel to instantaneously process the returns from all targets within a beamwidth. The basic signal processor consists of a wide-band amplifier-hard limiter, followed by appropriate band-pass filtering. The mathematical basis for its operation is developed and corroborating experimental results are given. Angle accuracy curves for a sum and difference monopulse system are derived as a function of input SNR."
"The conventional pulse radar has two shortcomings. First, since the pulse width and pulse repetition frequency are constrained by resolution and maximum range requirements, the average transmitter power can be increased only by increasing the peak transmitter power. Second, the limitation imposed by the sampling theorem prevents unambiguous measurement of Doppler frequencies higher than one half the pulse repetition frequency. These disadvantages can be circumvented by operating with continuous transmission, suitably modulating the transmitter power and correlating returned echoes with a delayed replica of the modulating signal. An excellent waveform for modulating the transmitter is the pseudo-random code generated by a shift register with multiple feedback paths. The autocorrelation function of the code has a single narrow peak each code length and low sidelobes. The code is easy to generate. Long delays are possible, since it is necessary only to memorize the code generation logic and not the code itself. The binary nature of the code makes it easy to perform such operations as multiplication. Realization of the desirable properties of the pseudo-random code depends on the manner in which the radio frequency carrier is modulated and demodulated. It is shown that phase-reversal modulation results in little distortion of the code, while frequency modulation can give rise to false range indications."
"A model range-channel pulse-compression system is postulated and the problem of suppressing sidelobes in the compressed pulse is discussed. It is concluded that amplitude-weighting in the time domain (at IF) is a convenient method of suppressing sidelobes. An integration loss factor is defined which characterizes the decrease in signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) resulting from the inclusion of weighting. For a radar system which is peak-power-limited, it is shown that the integration loss is less if the amplitude-weighting is accomplished entirely at the receiver while ``mismatching'' the system, rather than weighting at both transmitter and receiver while preserving a ``matched'' system. Some common amplitude-weighting functions are compared in terms of integration loss, main-lobe broadening, and sidelobe structure. The Hamming weighting is shown to be a good compromise among the above factors and, in addition, it is relatively easy to implement. The effect of a time-mismatch between the Hamming amplitude-weighting function and an echo pulse is considered for the special case of linear-frequency modulation."
"A pulse-compression radar system which utilizes a linear FM waveform has a theoretical upper limit to the magnitude of its compression ratio or time-bandwidth product. This limit is a function of the observed target's relative radial velocity, and the effect on the return signal is characterized by both a pulse stretching and amplitude reduction if the limit is exceeded. The use of a logarithmic phase-modulation signal waveform and a corresponding ``matched'' receiver possesses the desirable characteristics of the linear FM and in addition has no upper limit to the magnitude of the compression ratio. A single receive pulse-compression filter is matched for all target velocities. A linear FM signal can be thought of as a very good approximation to a logarithmic phase-modulation signal for compression ratios less than the maximum limit. A general method of implementing a variety of systems employing pulse-compression ratios up to 105 and utilizing logarithmic phase modulation is presented."
"The potentially wide bandwidth and large storage capacity of optical recording and processing systems leads naturally to consideration of direct IF recording. A method of recording and processing IF pulse-Doppler signals is presented and it is shown how ambiguities are reduced, compared to video processing, in the manner expected from sampling theory. Processing of a linearly varying Doppler frequency is also discussed. Experimental results with simulated constant frequency and linearly varying frequency recordings are shown."
"An RF beam-forming matrix is described which forms ``n'' simultaneous beams from an ``n'' element array in a passive and theoretically lossless manner. The principle of operation is explained using some simple matrix configuration. A general expression for the far-field pattern of any beam is derived and then used to study the positions of beam peaks, the position of beam nulls, the crossover level between beams and the frequency sensitivity of beam positions. This matrix provides a uniform illumination of the array aperture; however, simple beam combining techniques will yield tapered illuminations. An experimental 16-element beam-forming matrix which operates at 900 Mcps is described, and results of RF and antenna measurements on the matrix are presented."
"A circuit theory model is derived for coherent radar, communication, sonar and antenna systems. The model involves linear time invariant operators and hence can be thought of as cascaded filters. The model provides insight for such systems not previously available, and it provides a unified approach to the analysis of all the above systems. The analysis is concerned with continuously distributed target fields and point targets, perturbed by both additive noise and random phase errors. The model in general consists of two filters, a pre-filter and a post-filter. For radar, sonar, and antenna systems the input is the reflectivity of the target field to be sensed. For the radar and sonar case the impulse response of the pre-filter is the transmitted pulse while for antenna systems the impulse response is the current distribution. For communications, radar, and sonar the post-filter is the receiver while for antennas the post-filter is a combination of the receiver and the receiving antenna. Additive receiver noise is accounted for at the input of the post-filter. Lack of perfect coherence or phase errors can be due to many causes, e.g., atmosphere or ocean inhomogeneities. To account for the various sources of phase errors, one must consider both the pre-filter and post-filter as random parameter systems and include a multiplicative error at the input of the post-filter. This also accounts for fading. Optimum detection has been considered extensively in the literature; in this report we emphasize two other related criteria, namely resolution and mean-square error."
"This paper presents an analysis of the problem of the resolvability of two radar targets which are located close together, in the sense that any parameters of the targets being measured (e.g., range, range rate, range acceleration, azimuth, azimuth rate, etc.) are close together. Arbitrary sets of parameters are allowed, and it is assumed there is additive noise of arbitrary but known spectral shape. A criterion of resolvability is formulated, and in terms of this criterion equations are derived for the general case to show whether neighboring targets are resolvable. The results are specialized for the case of white-noise interference and the measurement of range and range rate."
"Usually in a radar signal-processing scheme, the primary consideration is the geometrical resolution of the system, or, if a particular measurement is desired, the accuracy of the system. Thus a given signal-to-noise ratio may be sought in order to meet a simple detection requirement or a desired accuracy. Usually, beyond these simple criteria, the matter of signal amplitude fidelity is not particularly stressed. In many processes, however, signal fidelity can be an important consideration in evaluating the over-all effect on the observer. In this paper the loss of information caused by signal interference in correlation or matched filter techniques is evaluated in an approximate manner. This is related to the invariance of the total integral of the Woodward ambiguity function. Degradation of the desired signal due to the statistical fluctuation of the signal itself is also considered. The distinction between pre-detection integration, which is involved in the correlation process, and post-detection integration is made. How these fluctuations can be reduced by post-detection integration is discussed and the resulting probability distributions of the signal are evaluated. Finally some brief comments are made on the philosophy of providing adequate gray-level rendition in radar displays. Attention is given to reconciling the dynamic ranges of the display and the signal, and to the number of resolvable gray levels available in the signal. A good example of these principles is the problem of recognition of objects in maps obtained from high-resolution radars."
"Signal processing distortion degrades radar performance with respect to target data accuracy, ambiguity and resolution. A measure of the loss in performance is obtained by the development of a modified radar ``uncertainty function'' which results from the presence of time- and frequency-domain distortions in the system. Losses due to the major sources of distortion are evaluated and several compensation techniques discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"A brief biography of David B. Dobson is given highlighting his professional achievements. Mr. Dobson is a member of the Aerospace Support Systems Commilittee of the Amlerican Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE) and the Society of American Military Enineers."
"High-speed, digital, internally-programmed, automatic checkout equipment is a powerful test tool whose impact has not yet been felt in testing large complex systems. It has, in certain ways, much higher test capabilities than either a sequentially programmed machine or a human operator. For these capabilities to be harnessed, new test techniques are required to ensure that failures or weaknesses are detected and separated from normal drifts. These techniques involve the design-of-the-prime system to secure through instrumentation, wiring, test points, and other built-in provisions, precisely the kind and quantity of test data needed. The test techniques involve improvement of several present-day test practices. The selection of test points, for example, is based upon both broad and detailed quantitative factors related to probability-of-mission-success, and reliability, rather than upon intuition, but with ample opportunity for the exercise of the designer's judgment. In general, more data are required, but the pay-off is in greatly increased reliability and availability, together with lower net costs. The immediate objectives of failure detection, prediction, prevention, and isolation are defined and a test program is described whose purpose is to maximize the failure information content of the test data rather than to reconfirm abstract design parameters. One technique described is called ``inferential testing'' or ``introspective testing'' which, complemented by end-to-end testing, is especially powerful in testing closed-loop systems. Another approach and technique described is that of wringing all possible test data from a fixed set of test points by ``network testing."
"One of the activities in which automatic testing plays a key role is missile readiness testing, which is that set of tests performed regularly for the purpose of detecting failures that have occurred in the missile and launch equipment. This is done in order to maintain a high state of operational readiness, measured in terms of readiness probability. An important adjunct to criteria for physical characteristics of readiness-testing techniques and equipment are statements derived from operational analyses that specify 1) what tests are done best by each testing method, 2) the best test frequencies, and 3) the preferred equipment locations for each test; these are operational design criteria and they depend greatly upon the obtainable readiness probability. Depending on the test techniques employed, different testing methods (check periodically, monitor continuously, leave alone) and equipment locations (van, silo, missile) could yield different readiness probabilities for each missile subsystem. These probabilities depend on the particular missile's characteristics (test-point availability, failure rates, modes of operation, etc.) and test technique and equipment characteristics (test completeness, accuracy, failure rates, etc.). In addition, missile system concepts or constraints such as fixed periods for some inspections and planned delays before repair must be accounted for in the readiness determination. Using probabilistic models to describe the system operation, computational forms are developed that account for each of the above physical and operational factors, and estimate the readiness probability of either an entire missile or each of its parts."
"Inverse probability is applied to the problem of isolating faults in an electrical network by an analysis of failure symptoms. Prior to performing fault isolation, the performance of a network with respect to possible failures is established. Then, identifying each possible failure as a separate event, the procedure for isolating a fault is presented in terms of extracting a ``signal'' from random amplitude ``noise.'' An example demonstrating these procedures is presented. Finally, an approximate solution involving less computation is summarized."
"A major problem in the field of unattended military airborne guidance equipment is the reliability and verification of proper operation. The testing techniques used to provide the maximum assurance of correct operation are a function of the level of complexity of testing. The levels of testing are: 1) Depot 2) Field Maintenance 3) Preflight 4) Inflight This paper examines the testing requirements at each level of test. A hypothetical guidance digital computer is used as an example to present some of the techniques that could be used to meet these requirements. Techniques discussed include the computer self-test, an automonitor program, fill-compare process, protection against program lock-up, and the return echo method of detecting information transfer errors."
"With the advent of high-speed computers having large memory capacities, it has become possible to automate one of the more difficult and time-consuming areas of computer developmental work; namely, that of checking the logical design. This paper describes one such method which utilizes an IBM 704 to simulate the logical equivalent of a specific computer under development by Nortronics Division of Northrop Corporation. Such logic testing before fabrication and checkout of the first computer eliminates much of the expensive checkout time usually required. The method employed by this simulation technique can readily be adapted to other types of digital equipment."
"This paper presents a method of fault isolation in electrical networks by determination of circuit element values from a sufficient set of measurements at the available or partly available terminals. The method requires that the circuit configuration be known; the measurements taken are voltage and current responses to sinusoidal stimuli of specified frequencies. The method presented is an iteration one using maximum likelihood estimation techniques at each stage, the iteration accounting for the nonlinearity of equations used with respect to the element value unknowns. A specific computational procedure is evolved. An example of a sample two-terminal passive circuit with 3 elements is given in detail, complete with computer flow charts, and numerical results."
"A performance figure indicates the ability of a system to perform a task. At present, several checkout systems obtain performance figures by employing the prime equipment directly in a mission simulation. The measure-compute approach is proposed as an alternative which might sometimes be applied more advantageously. In the measure-compute approach, the prime equipment is not directly involved in the mission simulation; hence, the simulation need not occur in real time. This paper first discusses general considerations related to performance figures. Then, the foundations for the measure-compute approach are presented, including techniques for overcoming certain measurement problems. Finally, two possible applications are discussed."
"In the development of computer programs for automatic checkout and the simplification of switching networks, certain simple logical routines occur frequently. Only a few such routines are needed to cover a large number of situations. A concise list or catalog of such routines is given in this paper. The shortest and simplest of these routines are called micro-programs. Somewhat more involved routines applying one or more micro-programs are given also. The use of the micro-programs and the more involved routines in automatic checkout is discussed."
"This paper summarizes several approaches to the problem of isolating faults in a complex system. The formulation of a diagnostic procedure involves 1) logical analysis techniques for the interpretation of results obtained from testing and 2) optimization techniques to insure that procedures employed in performing tests, selecting or sequencing tests, processing data, etc., are as efficient as possible. A procedure developed at Syracuse University, applicable when deterministic tests are used, is described. A model which extends the logical aspects of this procedure to the case when multiple failures can occur is presented. The problem of applying the figure of merit used in the single error case is discussed briefly. It is pointed out that the extended model is capable of handling a more general class of tests than those usually considered. A simple logic circuit is used to illustrate a test which will fail if two particular element failures occur together, but which will not fail if either one of the two failures occurs alone."
"This paper describes how a host of sensors sensitive to X rays, ultraviolet and infrared, and to other electric or magnetic fields are distributed throughout a complex electronic system in such a manner that the system is continuously monitored to determine its condition of operability. The large quantity of data derived from these sensors are scanned by television techniques in order to meet the needs of rapid and automatic test. The test results are displayed on a cathode-ray tube in cyclogram fashion so that departures from normal operation may be easily and rapidly detected."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the recipient of the 1962 M. Barry Carton Award."
"The series resistance of commercially available varactors provides a high-frequency limit on varactor parametric amplifiers. The values of pump frequency for which gain can be achieved and the resulting noise temperature are restricted. For a given signal frequency and a given varactor there is a minimum noise temperature that is achieved by correctly selecting the pump frequency. This minimum noise temperature can be related to measurable varactor parameters and to the power necessary for pumping the varactor. A plot of achievable noise temperature vs frequency indicates areas in which varactor amplifiers are competitive for low-noise receivers."
"It is known that considerable interference with long distance radio communication resulted from the explosion of the two 4-MT bombs at high altitude over Johnston Island in August, 1958. A study was made of the effects reported in unclassified literature with the object of finding which type of transmissions, if any, could still be relied upon under such conditions. The conclusion reached is that VHF links using meteorscatter or ionoscatter propagation would have escaped the severe blackouts experienced with LF, MF and HF transmissions. The positive disruption of such VHF links requires some 100 times more ionization than was produced by these bombs. To a lesser extent VLF transmissions would also have escaped a blackout-in this case it is estimated that some 10 times the ionization is required for a blackout. These conclusions refer to transmissions in which the midpoint of the path is less than, say, 1000 km from the explosion."
"A critical view is taken of some common notions of input signal-to-noise ratio ``thresholds'' below which frequency modulation radio links become inoperative but above which highly satisfactory communications result. Experimentally derived curves are shown giving output vs input S/N's for three FM receiver bandwidths and a signal employing sine-wave modulation. When the experimental FM curves are compared with theoretical curves for AM, DSB, and SSB, it becomes clear that the ``threshold'' concept is extremely misleading. FM systems can enjoy a competitive output S/N for low input S/N against uniform RF noise, while against narrow-band RF noise, wide-band FM is superior to the other systems for practical output S/N."
"Certain basic postulates about physical observables yield the structure of their mathematical representation. Measure equations are contrasted with quantity equations, and measurement units with abstract units. The abstract vector spaces in which observables are represented comprise the core of dimensional analysis. Systems of equations, units, and dimensions are discussed, along with comments on rationalization. The problem of assigning a dimension to angle is discussed, and a new proposal offered."
"Recognition and application of fundamental signal-gain relationships inherent to monopulse radars provide the means for determining the angle offset pattern and hence, angular position of all targets within the beam of a monopulse radar. With this method some 20 to 40 targets can be tracked with dynamic accuracies that approach the static accuracy of the radar, thus permitting precise determinations of their individual trajectories and cross sections. These determinations can be made in real or nonreal time, as desired, by using a small portion of the storage capacity of the digital computer normally utilized with range instrumentation systems to calibrate, store and process information in accordance with the data operations described herein. The main advantage of this digital data processing scheme lies in the elimination of a number of complications which characterized earlier methods."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The delay-lock discriminator is a statistically optimum device for measuring the delay between two correlated waveforms. Its theory of operation and the performance of an experimental model have been described by Spilker and Magill.1 The application of this device to range-and angle-measuring systems is discussed herein. Utilization of the delay-lock discriminator can lead to substantial simplification as compared to tracking systems relying exclusively on phase-lock loops. Such improvements result because the delay-lock loop is free of the ambiguities inherent in phase-lock measurements. The characteristics of presently available delay lines, an essential component of the delay-lock loop, and, in particular, the limited accuracy of which they are capable at present prohibits the immediate exploitation of the full capability of the delay-lock technique. For this reason, an attractive possibility for an immediate implementation is a hybrid system in which a delay-lock measurement is made to resolve ambiguities, while a phase-lock measurement determines the ultimate accuracy. A combined range- and angle-tracking system employing this hybrid concept is described herein, in which the delay-lock measurement is made on a low-pass noise waveform which, for transmission purposes, is applied as amplitude modulation to a stable carrier. The precise measurement is made by phase-locking onto the carrier. The phase-lock output is also used to synchronously detect the low-pass modulation. The characteristics of this system are discussed and expressions are given which show the dependence of threshold SNR and rms delay error upon system parameters. Its theoretical performance is illustrated in tracking a cooperative (i.e."
"The synchronizing performance of a phase-lock loop, in the absence of noise, is obtained by replacing the sinusoidal characteristic of the product demodulator, as a function of phase difference, by a triangular piecewise linear approximation. The analytical conditions for existence of a limit cycle (steady-state asynchronous mode) with a steady input frequency are derived. They may be solved numerically for any limit cycle, and a constrained minimization yields the minimum mistuning of the input carrier for which a limit cycle exists. Inside of this computed synchronization limit, an asynchronous mode does not exist. The computation for a particular case (damping factor = 0.5) yields a synchronization limit very similar to previous analog computer results. It is found that for a relatively large ratio of noise bandwidth to hold-in range, the synchronization limit corresponds to a trajectory connecting adjacent unstable points in the phase plane. However, for a small ratio, the solution changes character, and the synchronization limit is found to become proportional to the square root of loop-noise bandwidth. This is in agreement with a conclusion reached by Gruen on the basis of experimental data and by Viterbi by another approximate method of analysis."
"This paper analyzes the various types of continuous wave and pulse modulation for the transmission of sampled data over channels perturbed by white Gaussian noise. Optimal coherent synchronous detection schemes for all the different modulation methods are shown to belong to one of two general classes: linear synchronous detection and correlation detection. The figures of merit, mean-square signal-to-error ratio and bandwidth occupancy, are determined for each system and compared."
"The ideal clock source will have start-stop capability, maintain known phase with respect to a start signal and combine high-frequency stability with voltage tuning to permit phase lock and Doppler correction. These properties define a clock source suitable for synchronized communication systems in which a remote unit must be started in synchronism with the signal received from a local unit. For some space applications clock stabilities of the order of one part in 107 may be required. The two approaches to the problem considered are the gated crystal oscillator and the gated divider chain. The first requires that a high Q crystal oscillator be turned on in essentially steady state with insignificant transients of amplitude and phase. In the second a continuously running crystal oscillator is gated into a series of count-down dividers to obtain the clock output. Both of these approaches will produce circuits that have the required properties."
"The purpose of this paper is to create greater familiarity with recent developments in Luneberg lenses and to point out their usefulness in space communications. The term Luneberg lens is widely used to denote any lens having a radial variation in index of refraction. As a result of the radial variation in index a Luneberg lens antenna may scan a full 3600 by feed movement alone or simultaneous coverage in many directions may be accomplished by using multiple feeds. In the sections that follow the present state of the art with regard to Luneberg lens antennas and reflectors is briefly summarized and some examples to illustrate the use of Luneberg lenses in space communications systems are given. Lens structures are discussed as well as the possibility of using the atmosphere of a planet as a gigantic lens."
"This paper presents formulations which relate average received signal power, noise density, and bit rate of the to source to the expected probability of bit error in the received information for binary phase modulation systems. The performance of these systems is analyzed for the practical case of demodulation with switching-type phase detectors and the performance is compared with optimal product demodulation. The received signals are assumed corrupted with additive white Gaussian noise. The following modulations are analyzed explicitly: 1) Direct-carrier phase reversal, 2) Squarewave-subcarrier phase reversal, 3) Sinusoidal-subcarrier phase reversal. It is shown that direct-carrier and squarewave-subcarrier phase reversal modulations are optimally demodulated with the switching-type phase detector. The sinuosidal-subcarrier phase reversal modulation, however, is not optimally demodulated by this method. The degradation from optimal product demodulation is slight for modulation indices of 2 radians or less but becomes greater for larger indices."
"The Blue Scout, Jr. is a sounding rocket which will be instrumented to measure various forms of radiation at altitudes up to 100,000 miles. Space-General Corporation has built a Digilock telemetry system to convey the radiation information from the vehicle to the earth. The telemetry flight-unit communicates twenty 5-bit digital inputs, encodes the selected words into one of a family of binary orthogonal codes (the particular code selected depending on the value of input data), and phase modulates a transmitter with the selected code sequences. At the ground station the signal is fed to a specially designed phase-lock receiver, which demodulates the phasing information on the received signal and applies the video information (which is binary in the absence of noise) to a tape recorder. The tape is played back at the data-reduction center; the played-back signal is filtered by an integrate-and-dump circuit and then re-recorded on tape in a format suitable for processing by an IBM computer, which, by mechanizing a matched-filter type of decoder, yields the originally transmitted radiation data. Because of the orthogonal nature of the transmitted codes and the method used for modulating and demodulating the r-f carrier, it is possible to achieve a communication efficiency which is unsurpassed by any other existing system. In the present application, the Digilock system conveys information at a rate of approximately 64 bits/sec from a distance of 100,000 miles using only one-quarter watt of transmitted power; the resulting error rate per information bit is considerably less than 10-6."
"This paper deals with astro Doppler velocity measurement for space vehicle navigation. The measurement yields the relative velocity of the vehicle with respect to a star, and requires the use of electro-optical systems capable of measuring a small incremental change in the wavelength of propagated stellar energy. Such systems provide velocity data whose character and limitations are a function of the star's spectral radiation as well as the system instrumentation. This paper discusses the astro velocity data, its derivation, character, and limitations; and the Doppler velocity systems, their capabilities, limitations, and possible instrumentation."
"With the exception of those systems which are intended to satisfy special military requirements, passive satellite communication systems will not be economically competitive with high-capacity, active satellite systems because of greater terminal costs. There are twelve reasons why stationary orbit systems should become the backbone of future global communications, and these are discussed in detail. Seven of these are based on economic and system advantages, while the remaining five arise from interference coordination advantages in frequency sharing among satellite systems and with surface services. Stationary satellites present space technology and propagation delay problems, but these are rapidly being overcome. It is therefore recommended that more planning and regulatory emphasis be focused on stationary satellite communication systems, since nonstationary, nonmilitary systems will only be interim or supplementary systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Range measurements are a very powerful type of tracking data for spacecraft operating at interplanetary distances. As a step in the development of a technique for making such measurements, an experimental system was devised in which the technique was adapted to the radar tracking of artificial Earth satellites. The system was tried out by tracking the Echo balloon and, after modifications, proven by tracking the Courier satellite. This paper describes the system that was used and the experiments that were conducted. Evaluation of the range data was made by comparing it with angle and Doppler data. The comparison was made by computing an orbit from angle and Doppler data obtained on three successive passes. The range was computed from the orbit for comparison with the measured range. The ranges measured were between 1,900,000 and 2,500,000 meters, and the largest disagreement between the measured and computed range during these three passes was 36 meters which is only about twice the estimated uncertainty in the range measurement. The average disagreement was approximately 20 meters or one part in 105. At the present it is not possible to state what part of the disagreement should be attributed to the ranging system and what part should be attributed to the orbit computation. The direction to be taken by further investigation is given."
"The feasibility of exploring the solar system by radar was demonstrated on March 10, 1961, when a radio signal was beamed at the planet Venus, and for the first time in history the return echo was detected within a few minutes. The JPL Venus radar experiment has resulted in 1) an improvement of the accuracy of the Astronomical Unit by more than two orders of magnitude, 2) a determination that the dielectric constant and apparent roughness of its surface material are not unlike surface materials commonly found on Earth, and 3) a determination of the rotation rate of Venus for its most probable axis of rotation. In addition, the experiment verified that reliable interplanetary UHF communication is possible over ranges of 50 to 75 million miles and that planetary radar observatories are both practical and useful. Many improvements in the state of the radar and communications art are noted."
"The ``range and range rate'' (ri + ri) system in its very simplest form is described. In particular, the errors in position and velocity are treated using pessimistic values of the measured quantities ri and ri. Thus, a realistic evaluation of tracking qualities can be made for different orbits over certain tracking stations. The range and range rate system briefly described in this paper is a high-precision tracking system. Knowledge of the uncertainty in position δxi is. important, but knowledge of the uncertainty of the velocity vector δxi is of the utmost importance. Thus the use of coherent Doppler measurements to determine the velocity has a great advantage over any pulsed system and, in addition, permits extremely narrow frequency bandwidths (in the order of 10 to 100 cps) to be employed, reducing the power requirements considerably. The basis for using range ri and range rate ri only is the fact that ri and ri can be measured to very high precision, thus furnishing r and r with low errors. The nature of these errors is discussed."
"Pulse-frequency modulation (PFM) has been successfully employed as the encoding technique in a number of small U. S. Earth satellites where reduction of power and weight are prime considerations. This paper is concerned with the introduction of some of the more basic principles of PFM. Rather than presenting a rigorous proof on the orthogonality of this type of modulation, a comparison is made to the better-known characteristics of coded binary sequences. It is shown that PFM with quantized frequencies has the same communication efficiency in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise as a corresponding set of coded binary sequences with an equal number of quantized levels"
"A well-known means of efficiently transmitting information over the continuous white Gaussian channel involves the encoding of successive blocks of data into sequences of binary digits (called code words). Efficient decoding of these sequences in turn necessitates a knowledge of the instants in time at which one code word ends and the succeeding word begins. This paper presents a method for obtaining this synchronization which neither decreases the channel capacity nor increases the complexity of the encoding equipment. The method is to select, from the many encodings which are equally good for purposes of synchronous operation, that encoding for which the maximum absolute value of the correlation po between any code word and any sequence formed from the overlap of two code words is a minimum. Thus a large correlation is observed only in the synchronous phase position. This technique is applied to an important class of block codes, the binary orthogonal codes. An algorithm for constructing these codes with the desired self-synchronizing properties is presented, and upper bounds on the value of po are thereby established."
"A direct approach to the design of PM communications systems utilizing phase-locked demodulators is developed, and the design procedure is illustrated by example. In addition to the new design techniques, two other ideas are emphasized. First, the output signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is defined as the ratio of the mean information power output to the total mean-square closed-loop phase error, which includes the effect of signal distortion on the design. Second, the safety margin is defined as the ratio of the total mean-square phase error diminished by the mean-square phase error due to signal distortion to the quantity representing the nominal or expected mean-square phase error due to additive noise. Although the design techniques developed in this paper are applicable for information waveforms having a flat power spectrum, a similar approach can be used for sine-wave modulation. The equations representing the output SNR for sine-wave modulation are included. An experimental PM communications system has been constructed, and the results of initial tests show good agreement with the predicted performance."
"The problems of reducing telemetry signals from scientific earth satellites are assessed and an account is given of the factors governing the establishment of an automatic processing sequence. Some of the special features of the steps in this sequence are detailed, and an indication is given of the evolution in philosophy which has taken place since processing experience has accumulated. Final mention is given to some of the problems awaiting solution together with some of the plans under development for solving them."
"This paper discusses some of the problem areas and considerations unique to large space-vehicle telemetry. Some significant characteristics of specific telemetry multiplexing and modulation techniques are pointed out. The contributions to real-time data requirements such as vehicle prelaunch monitoring and checkout that can be made by telemetry techniques are described. Finally, some observations are made on the direction of future research and development (R & D) effort in the telemetry field."
"A self-erecting technique for erectable space-vehicle antennas is proposed. Working models of Yagi disk antennas utilizing this new principle are described."
"The size and complexity of the Saturn vehicle influences telemetry antenna design in several respects. This paper describes the problems associated with size and shape of the vehicle body, bandwidth and power requirements, spurious frequency generation, and exhaust flame effects. Signal strength measurements recorded during the first Saturn flight are presented and compared with precalculated values."
"This paper considers the problem of arraying independently steerable antennas for use in deep-space communications systems. It describes the basic design of a receiver capable of utilizing all the signal power received on a number of antennas without requiring that the signals be phase coherent. The results of this study indicate that, for very large aperture systems, the array approach offers both economical and technical advantages over the single-reflector approach."
"In the last few years considerable interest has arisen in application of the Cassegrainian principle to paraboloidal antenna systems. In the case of large ground-based tracking antennas, it appears that this type of feed system can offer significant performance and operational advantages over conventional systems. For this application, however, special sidelobe requirements are imposed on the Cassegrainian system. The forward sidelobe distribution must be controlled to reduce the effect of solar noise interference, and the backlobe level must be controlled to reject blackbody radiation from the antenna environment. It is shown that these considerations are the major factor in choosing the feed system configuration. An experimental system utilizing an 85-ft antenna operating at 960 Mc is described. This system has an aperture efficiency of approximately 50 per cent and a measured zenith noise temperature of 9.5° K."
"Earth-orbiting satellite programs demand optimum performance from automatic tracking antenna systems. Certain criteria such as maximum drive shaft rates and best satellite data transmission conditions are considered in the design of the antenna mount. This paper describes the advantages of using an X-Y antenna mount for performing data acquisition and satellite tracking functions. Maximum shaft rates of two-axis mounts are compared under similar satellite pass conditions, and the relative advantages of using an X-Y mount are discussed. A discussion of several of the general design considerations of the servo-control system is presented, and a discussion relating the error constants to the output rates is given. A few salient features describing the advantages of the X-Y mount, from the servo drive system designer's viewpoint, are also presented. The paper concludes with a brief description of NASA's 85-ft parabolic X-Y antenna located at the Data Acquisition Facility at Gilmore Creek, Fairbanks, Alaska."
"An operational 960-Mc low-noise receiving system for use in deep-space tracking missions is described. A ruby-cavity maser, low-noise antenna, low-loss transmission line connecting the antenna to the maser and associated instrumentation all combine to yield reliable and low-noise performance. Results of tests on this system in preparation for the Ranger RA-3 lunar probe are presented. The system was successfully used during operations with RA-3. A minimum system temperature of 47°K has been achieved."
"A technique is described for the measurement of power spectra which is designed to distinguish the spectrum of a weak signal which is masked by strong background noise. The method was applied during the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Venus radar experiment to study spectral characteristics of the echo. An analysis is given which describes the performance of the system in such an application."
"Some results are given of an experimental study of the loss mechanism for electrons in plasmas. Steady-state and decaying plasmas were studied by means of microwave interferometers. Values of the electron-ion recombination coefficient for nitrogen and argon are given. The effect of water vapor as an impurity upon the electron-ion recombination rate of air is demonstrated. Data is also given on the transmission of microwave through an ionized layer about a body in a supersonic gas stream and the effect upon transmission of water vapor addition to the stream."
"The utilization of advanced, high-powered nuclear-electric spacecraft in the near future for the unmanned scientific exploration of space will provide significant weight allowances and power levels for scientific payloads and communication equipment. The electronic system designer, presently faced with minimum weight and power limitations imposed by today's chemically-propelled spacecraft, must develop new techniques to take advantage of the greater capabilities promised by nuclear-electric spacecraft. Power levels approaching 1 Mwe may be expected. Systems capable of employing this power must operate under an intense nuclear radiation flux at elevated temperatures for long time periods. Development of such equipment must be initiated at an early date."
"This paper discusses the requirements that must be met by electric thrust devices in order to be used with interplanetary spacecraft. Two missions, a Mars orbiter and a Jupiter capture, chosen as representative of the time periods following 1965 and 1970, respectively, are analyzed to determine the thrust and specific impulse requirements of an electric propulsion system. The state of the art of electric thrust devices is discussed, and it is concluded that, with expected advances, ion motors can meet all of the requirements of interplanetary missions, with magnetohydrodynamic motors a promising backup."
"This paper discusses the expected performance of electron bombardment ion sources when used for electrostatic propulsion. Two particular sources, the duoplasmatron and the Penning Ion source, are examined in some detail and suggestions are made on how their performance for application with electric thrust devices could be improved. It is concluded that electron bombardment sources may offer some advantages over surface contact engines if ways can be found to significantly improve their propellant utilization."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The significance of filter delay characteristics in telemetry applications is discussed, and fundamental terms are defined. Suggested methods of delay measurement are presented, and experimental results are given. Recommendations are offered regarding filter specifications."
"A communication system by code modulation is described which incorporates an integration process in the original delta modulation system and is named delta-sigma modulation after its modulation mechanism. It has an advantage over delta modulation in dc level transmission and stability of performance, although both require essentially an equal bandwidth and complexity of circuitry. An experimental telemetering system employing delta-sigma modulation is also described."
"The ability of a phase-lock loop using a proportional plus integral control filter to acquire a noisy signal when the local oscillator is being swept was determined empirically by means of a low-frequency, GEESE1 model of such a system. The effects of the damping factor and natural frequency on the frequency acquisition properties of linear loops (as distinguished from a loop in which the IF signal is limited) are considered in this study. In addition, consideration is given to a loop in which the IF signal is ``hard'' limited and the loop designed to maximize the sweep rate under the constraint that the probability of acquisition is equal to or greater than 90 per cent for a given SNR. The rms phase jitter in the output signal was measured as a method of verifying the standard analytic approach to predicting phase jitter. The results of the study are as follows: 1) The range of damping factors from 0.5 to 0.85 yields near optimum acquisition performance. 2) Although a drop in loop gain produces lower phase jitter for a given (S/N)IF, it degrades the over-all ability of the loop to acquire and track a signal. 3) A ``hard'' limiter in the IF can be effectively used as a gain control to enhance loop performance. 4) Using an empirical formula derived from experimental results, the VCO sweep rate for 90 per cent probability of acquisition can be predicted accurately, given the (SNR)IF and loop parameters."
"Two general classes of operations for the purpose of compressing the output of a message source are considered: (1) Entropy-reducing (ER) transformation, and (2) Information-preserving (IP) transformation (redundancy removal). The type (1) transformation, when acceptable, can yield substantial compression gains in telemetry applications while the type (2) transformation can yield substantial gains for certain types of source statistics. A new concept, adaptive coding, is introduced. It is shown that for quasi-stationary source statistics it is possible to obtain estimates of the statistics and to use these subsequently for efficient coding. A general statistical measure for monitoring the efficiency of the adaptive procedure is presented and a decision rule, based on this statistic, for updating the coding is defined. It is shown that the statistical estimates need not be precise since the coding efficiency remains reasonably insensitive to small errors; hence, only violent changes in the source statistics must be detected. A number of configurations for performing adaptive and non-adaptive compression are discussed in detail. Some of these procedures, such as predictive coding, are well known while others are new. In particular, a practical configuration is presented for compressing the output of many sensors which have the statistical structure; no changes in the signal for relatively long time intervals and very rapid changes for relatively short time intervals. It is concluded that this approach has the advantage over variable rate commutation procedures in that short message bursts can always be detected without increasing the communications channel capacity."
"A careful laboratory program to experimentally optimize and evaluate four telemetry systems in wide use (FM-FM, PAM-FM, PDM-FM and PCM-FM) has been concluded as part of a general study of problems in the telemetry field. Each of the four systems was implemented in the laboratory and the system under test was modulated by random signal sources typifying actual data. Broad-band random noise was then introduced at the RF and the various system parameters were optimnized to obtain the lowest threshold for stated performance. Having optimized the parameters in this manner, performance against other types of interference was also measured. For each system an accurate error comparator was designed which repetitively sampled the system input and output and compared the samples for error. The information obtained on internal parameter optimization and over-all performance for each system is extremely useful to systems design as well as to evaluation and comparison of the systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The two-threshold concept of Enloe is systematized by expressing the thresholds in terms of demodulator loop transfer function. The threshold formulas thus developed are then applied using four specific forms of transfer functions. The relative merits of each are displayed graphically for ready comparison. Finally, the FMFB technique is compared on a threshold power basis with other FM demodulation methods."
"Radio frequency communication with spacecraft is necessary during all phases of flight including the period of atmospheric re-entry. During re-entry, the velocity of these vehicles is sufficiently high to induce thermal ionization of the air surrounding the vehicle. Resultant electron concentrations are in some cases high enough to interfere with normal communications with the vehicle. This interference takes the form of attenuation or reflection of signals transmitted from the vehicle. Exact analysis of the problem requires precise information regarding the flow field surrounding the vehicle of interest. Since these data are generally unavailable until late in the vehicle design phase, it is the purpose of this paper to examine means by which an approximation of the interference effects may be obtained when only the trajectory and body configuration are known. Many glide vehicle designs are complex in their shape; however, for the purposes of analysis of phenomena associated with the vehicle configuration, the vehicle may be considered to be composed of combinations of shapes having more elemental forms. A procedure is described by which analysis of propagation effects for these elemental bodies may be used to approximate the conditions to be expected in the corresponding region of the more complex vehicle. A sample problem is presented as a demonstration of the procedure."
"A study to determine the effect of 1) data power spectrum, and 2) system design parameters on aliasing and data interpolation error has been conducted. Results are applicable to time-division multiplexed telemetry systems. In particular, the results apply to the commonly used PAM-FM, PDM-FM and PCM-FM telemetry systems and PACM-FM. Data was obtained on the basis of combined analysis and experiment with emphasis on the derivation of experimentally proven design parameters. The program consisted of three phases: 1) A study was conducted to determine typical telemetry data spectra; 2) analysis was performed to predict accuracy performance of practical data and interpolation filters using selected examples; 3) experimental tests using data spectral models were performed to derive proven interpolation accuracy performance on the basis of practical filters and design parameters. The experimental tests utilized a PAM-FM system to derive an accurate measurement of attainable performance and to indicate when other equipment factors begin to impose a limit on data recovery accuracy. Spectral models representing typical spectral data characteristics are presented. In addition, some of the more important conclusions relating to operating parameters are presented."
"A telemetry technique is discussed which promises to alleviate an enigma facing the telemetry engineer: How to adequately transmit the avalanche of vibration and other wide-band data desired in the development phase of large missiles and launch vehicles. The data channels are stacked in the frequency spectrum as single-sideband subcarriers which frequency-modulate the RF carrier. The system design utilizes to advantage the statistical properties of vibration data to achieve maximum data transmission efficiency from the available RF carrier deviation. However, in contrast to proposed statistical predigestion techniques, the data is transmitted in raw form. The background and philosophy of the technique is given, followed by a general description of the SS-FM vehicle and ground telemetry equipment utilized in the Saturn vehicle program and a summary of system characteristics and performance."
"The deviation ratio required for minimum obtainable bit-error probability for random binary PCM/FM waveforms is derived. The resulting minimum obtainable bit-error probabilities are calculated and compared with those obtained expenimentally and independently in two different laboratories using conventional demodulation equipment. The amplitude distribution of video noise in conventional FM receivers is investigated theoretically and experimentally in an attempt to interpret the effect (or lack of effect) of video filtering on error probability. Comparison is also made between theoretically attainable bit-error probabilities for PCM/AM, PCM/PSK, conventional PCM/FM (i.e. frequency modulating a single oscillator) and ``switched PCM/FM'' (i.e. switching between two oscillators of different frequencies)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Jay B. (Bud) Heyne (SM'58) was aboard the ill-fated Jetliner which crashed in New York on March 1st 1962. Bud had contributed several papers to the IRE-PGRQC Transactions and had been active for the last three years as a member of the Editorial Board. He was a Senior Operations Research Scientist at Systems Development Corporation, Santa Monica, Calif., and was returning from New York where he had given a paper at a meeting of the American Management Association. He will be missed by his many friends in IRE and our deepest sympathy lies with his wife and children."
"The primary interest of a system user is the annual net Benefit he obtains from the complete man-machine system. This Benefit is the annual Worth of his use of the system, minus the annual Cost of having and using the system. System and engineering design effort must be allocated according to potential Benefit development or improvement. This is so obvious that it is often dismissed as ``done intuitively.'' But for complex systems intuition can be far from adequate. Anything less than analytical design for best Benefit leaves the producer wide open to competitive design that provides far better Benefit. Management allocation of funds, whether to projects or functional groups, must be identically guided. Management support on any other basis inhibits profit, growth, and even survival. Reliability improvement effort therefore must compete with other kinds of design improvement, according to potential user Benefit. Pure ``reliability improvement'' is not much of a justification to Management. But predictable user Benefit in annual savings, resulting from reliability improvement, cannot be ignored. If such Benefit can compete with that from other investments, it will have full Management support."
"It is a well-established fact that brief pulses of intense radiation, such as those produced during a nuclear detonation, can disable, or cause serious malfunction of, most electronic systems even though they are located outside the thermal and shock destruction zones. This fact has given rise to the need for a device which can simulate the radiation environment accompanying a nuclear detonation. Coincidental with the evolution of this need, a family of nuclear reactors has been demonstrated as being capable of producing radiation bursts which, in all important respects, adequately simulate a nuclear weapon. These devices offer additional advantages over field tests involving actual detonation in that they may be operated on a routine repetitive basis at a much reduced cost and under carefully controlled laboratory conditions. The Kinetic Experiments on Water Boiler (KEWB) reactor has a demonstrated ability to perform in the capacity of a weapon simulator. This reactor is located in the Los Angeles area and is operated by Atomics International for the Atomic Energy Commission. Organizations executing Government contracts can take advantage of its availability if transient radiation resistance requirements are encountered during execution of their contract. The reactor is of the aqueous homogeneous type and produces the shortest duration pulse of any of the thermal neutron reactors operating today. Radiation pulses of varying widths down to 3.0 msec can be obtained with the assembly together with peak neutron and gamma intensities of 3 x 1016 neutrons/cm2-sec and operating today."
"The problem of reliable electronic circuit design by statistical methods is described. After a brief account of the history of this problem, we give the principle of one successful method-Monte Carlo. Two implementations of this method, as digital-computer programs, are given. The first program analyzes the reliability of a given circuit. The second program picks component values to optimize the circuit behavior with respect to several performance aspects. Examples illustrating the nature of the input and output information are included. ``... Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking about them ....'' -A. N. Whitehead"
"After a review of the nature of radioactivity and its detection, typical applications of radioactivity are presented in research, development and quality control with emphasis on the field of electronics. Topics discussed include the efficiency of cleaning operations, determination of impurities in semiconductor materials, detection of leakage of air into sealed units, wear of relay contacts, isotopic dating of products, pre-ionization of gases, dissipation of electrostatic charges, location of hidden splices, and verification of installation of small components."
"Unless exceptionally high levels of reliability are achieved in long mission satellite systems such as those required for navigation, weather, ICBM warning, or communication purposes, the operating costs become prohibitive in terms of satellites needed to keep the system going and multimillion dollar costs per launch. This paper outlines and discusses the technical reliability approach and the related reliability program plan needed to meet the severe reliability requirements of satellite systems."
"The paper presents a review and commentary on various mathematical models which have been proposed and used for analytical prediction of reliability. Attention is given to the physical interpretation of some of the mathematical postulates on which particular models are built. A rough classification of models for long-term life quality analyses as distinct from short-term success at any instant predictions are made. Based on the considerations presented, a summary commentary is made on the present status of reliability prediction theories."
"The reliability of complex digital systems can be increased by increasing the reliability of the components of the system or by inserting redundant components into the system. Since it is often prohibitively expensive to obtain successively higher levels of component reliability, inserting redundant components may be the only reasonable way to satisfy future digital system requirements. The reliability of a given computer subsystem may be improved by adding redundant subsystems of the same sort having the same inputs, and entering the several outputs into a decision element designed to produce the most probably, correct final output. This paper deals with designing the decision element. The optimum design is obtained for several different types of systems. The decision element that maximizes the ``reliability'' is derived when the a priori probabilities of various outputs are known and when they are unknown. The optimum element is unique when the a priori probability is unknown."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The annual award for 1961 of the IRE Professional Group on Reliability and Quality Control for a major contribution to the field of reliability in electronic equipment was awarded to Paul S. Darnell of the Bell Telephone Laboratories and the 'Ad Hoc Study Group on Parts Specification Management for Reliability\" which Mr. Darnell headed for the Department of Defense. Mr. L. Paddison of Sandia presented the award."
"This paper presents a brief synopsis of representative techniques that are used in the analysis and prediction of equipment reliability during the design phase. In particular, attention is directed to: 1) techniques commonly employed for the prediction of circuit or module reliability, given part reliability, circuit configuration, and environment; 2) techniques commonly employed for the prediction of equipment (or systems) reliability, given module reliability, equipment configuration, and operational and environmental requirements; and 3) advanced statistical techniques which are useful under certain conditions to supplement those techniques previously mentioned."
"The Interservice Data Exchange Program (IDEP) is an important new tool in the reliability test effort of General Precision's Librascope Division. IDEP's effectiveness for Librascope has expanded rapidly through use of a summary which codes salient features of pertinent test reports. The summary, issued semi-annually, has helped reduce wasteful duplication of tests already conducted by IDEP member organizations. The program's manifold benefits, as reviewed in this paper, have saved Librascope about $ 8000 to date. While IDEP is still not functioning perfectly, the company sincerely believes that certain minor changes in the manner of failure-rate data exchange, for example, will prompt even greater benefits in the future."
"This paper gives an introduction to the important probability models and statistical techniques that can be used in reliability studies. In Section I several important ideas are stressed. They are 1) That it is generally impossible to fit a statistical distribution from data alone, but that one must usually select first a family of distributions based on some theoretical and/or physical considerations and then estimate the parameters in this family of distributions. 2) That it is important to know something of the properties of the estimators used since not all estimators are necessarily good and could possibly be worse than just picking a value for the estimate at random. In addition to the above points important statistical quanities are defined and discussed. Also, in Section I the ideas of testing hypothesis are discussed and illustrated. In Section II a very brief discussion of some of the important discrete distributions is made. In Section III the probability distributions under discussion are briefly introduced. In Section IV some guides and examples are presented on how the different family of distributions may arise."
"A methodology is given for analyzing the cumulative effect of a cascaded system of transducers on an input signal, where the transducers themselves activate peripheral activities, and are designed to leave the input signal unchanged, except for random magnification perturbations. Relationships are developed which relate component tolerances with the system output tolerance, and hence with system reliability. Examples are given which illustrate the type of problems that are amenable to solution by the general methodology developed, in electronics applications and otherwise. They include the determination of system output tolerances from given component tolerances, a system reliability determination when the input represents a binary digit, and a determination of minimal component precisions that are required to achieve given system tolerances. Care has been given to present the basic methodology in a complete, detailed, and self-contained manner."
"Increases in performance requirements and environmental severity, coupled with customer demands for analysis, review, testing, demonstration, training and documentation have pushed reliability costs to a critical stage. To prevent short-cutting an adequate program, reliability manpower costs must be reduced. The contrasting situations between plants with independent reliability organizations and plants with the reliability tasks distributed among existing departments will be discussed. The work atmosphere that is characteristic of many small plants and its adaptation to the organizational technique of task integration will be described. Examples will be presented of reliability work assigned according to engineering planning and procedures to those departments with personnel capable of doing the work. Guidaance, unity, strength and control of a task-integrated reliability program will be shown to be the responsibility of a management staff representative. Replies to a questionnaire on the distribution of reliability manpower will be analyzed with respect to the principle that, in small plants, reliability activities are performed by each of the major departments."
"The purpose of this test was to establish a quantitative relationship between AGREE bench-test results and field-test results, as measured in terms of mean time-between-failures (MTBF). The scarcity of field data on AGREE-tested equipments and the variations in field conditions and definitions of failure prevented direct comparison of field and bench results. Therefore, AGREE results were compared with composite field data on many airborne equipment types, the comparison being made in terms of a factor reflecting the relationship between equipment complexity and observed MTBF. The comparison took into account 1) two levels of test severity, 2) two degrees of optimism in interpretation of test results, and 3) differences between tubed and transistorized equipments. Comparison shows that the observed field MTBF was generally higher than the observed bench MTBF for similar equipment types. These findings are reasonably indicative of what might be expected when additional AGREE and field test data are accumulated. In order to improve feedback of information to AGREE, it is recommended that methods and definitions used in military-sponsored field tests be standardized. These changes would appreciably increase not only the predictive value of bench tests but also the usefulness of future field evaluations to all users of field data."
"The economics of satellite communications depend critically upon the reliability of the satellite components. Assuming that the prelaunch and launch requirements on reliability have already been demonstrated, attention is focused on the orbital life requirements and the failure modes to be expected. It is proposed that our experience with electronic components for submarine cable communications is applicable to the orbital phase of satellite component reliability. The philosophy and methodology of design, fabrication, test and certification used in providing components for the Telstar experiment are out-lined briefly. It is concluded that all four steps coupled with a thorough knowledge of the operating environment are required to produce an economical system."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Here are seven charts on operating characteristic curves. They illustrate the definitions, of course. They show some of the relations between quality control and reliability. But most important, the charts cover the usual range of reliability measurements. Here, you have a useful tool for reli ability demonstration tests, qualification and acceptance tests, and other life tests. All of these charts cover reliability measurement problems that have come up in AC's reliability programs. The emphasis is on usefulness."
"The reliability problem is reviewed with respect to present and future requirements for military and commercial equipment. Methods of reliability improvement are reviewed and achievable levels of improvement are indicated for each method. Special emphasis is placed on redundancy, its benefits and disadvantages. The subject of Majority Vote is discussed along with failure detection circuitry capable of detecting first failures. The entire paper is intended to aid the circuit designer in his task of achieving higher reliability. The disclosures pertaining to Majority Vote and failure detection are considered advances in the state of the art."
"This paper analyzes in terms of flight operations the maintenance and reliability data collected by RAND during a field study of interceptor squadron effectiveness. This study was made several years ago, but the limited availability of this type of information makes worth-while its availability in an unclassified document, even though the aircraft is no longer in the Air Force inventory. The results are primarily useful in that they indicate the importance of certain parameters on maintenance and reliability. In particular, the validity of the Poisson distribution for predicting both the failures generated by system operation and the time required for repair was examined. The effect of periodic inspection on reliability was also of concern. This paper presents some highlights of the study. More detailed results are discussed in the authors' original RAND paper.1"
"In command and control systems, of which the SAGE Air Defense System is one example, system performance and dependability are a function of a number of parameters in addition to the usual failure-time pattern associated with reliability. For duplex installations, expecially where digital computers are concerned, maintenance characteristics of the machines, as well as maintenance and operating policies, can have a profound effect on system down time. Equations are derived for predicting duplex system down time and mean time to lost time incidents on the basis of machine characteristics and operating parameters. The results are illustrated by a numerical example."
"Upper bounds on mean life of self-repairing systems are established on the basis of a very general system model. Expressions for system mean-life are obtained by formulating the problem as a two-dimensional difference equation in time and the number of nonfailed spare elements. Results indicate that mean life of an isolated system cannot be expected to exceed roughly three times the mean life of the elements which make it up, regardless of how standby elements are employed. If the element failure rate in standby is substantially less than the failure rate in operation, then system mean life is essentially linearly proportional to the number of available standby elements."
"This paper recounts some of the early emphases in attacking the reliability problem. It develops the theory that control of the probability of failure is obtained through understanding and controlling the effects of variance throughout the development cycle of a product. The control of variance requires identification of the activities affecting variance coupled with disciplines developed from past failure experience that apply the lessions to the activities. The paper lists and discusses some of the disciplines applicable to the engineering function."
"The COFEC system (Cause of Failure, Effect, and Corrective Action) provides an efficient means for reliability data reduction and presentation in a manner suitable for executive action. An appropriate information storage and retrieval system accepts a large quantity of data and provides periodic reports which delineate those areas most worthy of attention in efforts toward the improvement of future system reliability. Sample forms indicate the nature of the periodic readout. In addition, relevant data may be made available on short notice, as specific points of interest develop. This reliability data system has already demonstrated its value to weapon systems management."
"Possible failure modes of solar arrays are discussed briefly. An open circuit due to a mechanical break in the circuit is considered to be the predominant failure mode. The effect of various combinations of open-circuited cells on current output (at a fixed terminal voltage) from a series-parallel interconnected array of solar cells is examined using a typical solar cell I-V characteristic. It is found that for certain practical types of interconnected arrays, the degradation of the modular components of the array is most likely to result in specific current output values from a module rather than in a continuous distribution of output values. A formula for the calculation of the probability of occurrence of modules with a specific current output value is derived. The multinomial probability distribution than allows the approximate calculation of the probability that the current output of the entire array is greater than some minimum required value. Finally, upper and lower bounds to the reliability of any interconnected array are derived."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The past and present of computer simulation are examined, and on that basis some predictions for the future are made. Deploring the analog vs digital concept fostered by some, the author stresses the complementary aspects of the two methods. Then, drawing heavily on the experience of others as well as his own, the more important improvements in simulation techniques and equipment of the past ten years are discussed. The two approaches to analog-digital simulation-the hybrid-computer in which both techniques are combined in one machine, and the combined-simulation in which relatively pure analog and digital computers are connected to operate together-are both viewed as attempts to capitalize on the unique advantages inherent in each method, and as presenting common problems. The requirement for better education, not only of the potential user-the scientist, the engineer, and the researcher in other fields such as biology and medicine-but of the undergraduate and the public, is found to be the greatest need. Improved equipment having greater reliability-for somewhat less money-is also needed. But it is predicted that that will come. It is the need for education which demands the attention of all who are interested in the furture of computer simulation."
"The use of controlled superconductors in analog-computer circuitry is discussed. It is shown that the operations of summation, multiplication by a constant, differentiation, integration, and multiplication of two variables may be performed by these circuits. It is pointed out that the advantages of compactness, reliability, and light weight that are inherent to the use of controlled superconductors are now obtainable for analog as well as for digital equipment."
"Several higher-order difference methods are investigated and compared for the problem of finding the natural frequencies of the lateral vibration of a beam. All of the methods considered are applicable to either digital or analog computers, although particular reference is made to the analog computer. The methods considered in most detail use the same basic central difference approximation, the variations occurring in the method of representing boundary conditions. Three higher-order approaches to the problem of boundary conditions are presented. They are 1) the use of one-sided differences of fourth order, 2) the use of symmetry assumptions, and 3) the passive-circuit approach. Each method is shown to have its advantages, the final choice depending upon the particular requirements of the problem. Results are presented in the form of curves of percentage mode-frequency error vs number of cells for the various approximation methods."
"The purpose of this paper is to discuss a method for the construction of a mathematical model of a large biological system. This method, based on Gibbs' free energy hypothesis, uses the format of mathematical programming, while the actual computation is accomplished by the method of steepest descent. The biological system chosen to exemplify the mathematical method was the respiratory function of the blood in the human lung. This method is based on the postulate that chemical mixtures tend toward a reaction equilibrium which minimizes the potential, or free energy, of the system. We may thus write down the classical Gibbs free energy function for each chemical species, and require that total free energy relative to some standard state be minimized under the conditions of the experiment. The solution of the equilibrium problem consists of a set of mole numbers which minimizes the free energy function, subject to equations for conservation of mass and nonnegativity. The analog computer solution of the respiration model was undertaken not only to give fast, sensitive tests of the mathematical model and its assumptions, but also to obtain a simulation of the time dependent system. Examples of the mechanization of the equations are presented in this paper, and also results are computed for the static equilibrium of a canonical model."
"An electro-optical device is described which provides a continuously-variable dc electrical signal in response to a shaft rotation. The elimination of a mechanical contact provides low torque, long life, and high-speed operation. Shaping of the thin film resistance track associated with this device produces an interesting function generator. Data is presented for successful operation of the laboratory model. An analysis is provided of the requisite track shaping to produce arbitrary functions. The electrical equivalent circuit of the device is analyzed, and the conditions necessary for successful operation described."
"The relative advantages of analog and digital techniques in simulating complex, nonlinear systems in real-time are discussed. A hybrid configuration is suggested consisting of a basic digital computer and peripheral, high-speed analog elements used on a time-shared basis under the control of the digital program. Programs for function generation and for the solution of the aircraft roll equation are presented to illustrate the operation of the hybrid computer and the significant increase in the effective computing speed of the digital computer that results from the incorporation of peripheral analog elements. Further gains can be made by tailoring the order code and logic of the digital computer to the specific problem class of interest. The hypothesis is presented that a hybrid computer is technically feasible today that would be competitive with analog techniques on the basis of both cost and the ability to simulate natural aircraft frequencies in real-time. Moreover, such a computer would offer substantial advantages with respect to accuracy, dynamic range, flexibility, size, power consumption, and reliability."
"By using the analog-computer independent variable time, as a parameter, a differential equation can be transformed into a set of first-order equations containing no divisions. This makes it possible, by means of other mathematical transformations to prevent unbounded functions from occurring during a computation and sometimes to continue solutions through singularities. The discussion includes a detailed application of the method to a second-order differential equation containing both zero and infinite slopes in the solution. The graph of the solution is obtained without reprogramming and with less equipment than that required by usual techniques."
"A new kind of digital computer employing analog computing techniques is introduced. Planned as the central calculator in a ``faster-than-real-time'' computing system for a space range, the computer employs many, high-speed, digital circuits in parallel to calculate the solutions to sets of nonlinear differential equations. Parallel computing equipment employing simple numerical algorithms are shown to be superior in speed and accuracy of solution of sets of many equations than a hypothetical system of an un limited number of conventional, stored program computers operating in unison. The operating and programming methods are described as an outgrowth of existing analog and digital computer techniques. The applications described indicate the effectiveness of the computer in the role of a prediction and control computer for a missile and space range instrumentation system."
"An analog-computer flow chart is developed for use in setting up a simulation of the steam-generation process in a heat exchanger. It is assumed in the paper that the rate of heat flow from the primary side of the heat exchanger to the secondary side is already known. The technique described considers only the process in the secondary side of the heat exchanger. Factors such as variations in pressure, boiling-point temperature, induction water heat rate, heat of vaporization, specific volume of steam, and rate of secondary steam extraction are considered. Some simplifications are made e.g., that the secondary steam is always at saturation conditions and that water level control in the boiler is good. Use is made of steam table data in function generators so that a fairly large range of operating conditions can be simulated."
"A method is described for the analog computation of the solution of linear two-point boundary value problems, i.e., the problem of a linear ordinary differential equation with linear two-point boundary conditions. The nonhomogeneous problem, in particular, is considered; the differential equal for y on the real interval 0≦x≦1 is taken to be nonhomogeneous. The method for its solution is based upon the integral formula for the solution, namely, y(x) = ∫01G(x, t)f(t)dt, where G(x,t) is the Green's function satisfying two-point boundary conditions while f is a known integrable function. The paper describes a method for finding a specific set of initial value problems whose solutions, taken in linear combination, form the Green's function whose second argument (t) is fixed. This technique reduces the two-point boundary value problem to a set of initial value types and makes the continuous computation of the Green's function as a function of x for fixed t amenable to analog means. The application of the described technique to the adjoint boundary value problem yields a means for continuous computation of G as a function of the second argument (t) for fixed values of the first argument (x). This is the required form for the analog evaluation of the integral formula. The theoretical aspects of the method found are stated, after which an example of a simple non-self-adjoint problem from the study of structures is solved on an electronic analog computer."
"This paper describes a procedure for correct calculation of the resistance of the potentiometer function generator, including the load resistance of the generator. The possibility of generating the function by taking inequidistant values of the independent variable is also described as is the possibility of generating some special functions."
"Some sequential machinies contain input-independent parts and can therefore be input-inependent machine (an autonomous clock) and an input-dependent machine. Necessary and sufficient conditions on the flow table are obtained for the existence of autonomous clocks in sequential machines, and the properties of these machines and their clocks are studied."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The networks considered in this paper consist of n identical combinational logic cells connected in cascade through bi-directional discrete information channels. All switching is done synchronously with unit time delay through each cell. Three classes of networks are formed according to whether or not information flow in one direction along the cascade is dependent upon that in the other. Steady-state behavioral relationships between the three classes are discussed, and the class having mutually dependent information flow is shown to be the only one which can exhibit steady-state memory properties. The main object of the paper is to derive several theorems concerning these memory properties. The last section interprets some previous results of Hennie as a start on the transients and cycling problems."
"Numerous physical situations related to data processing are shown to be modeled by a mathematical entity called a quasi-machine. The situations described include 1) single inputs producing multiple outputs, 2) machines yielding no outputs upon insertion of certain inputs, 3) the retention of the last n outputs only, 4) ``erase left'' on tape, 5) different input routines doing the same work, and 6) certain types of asynchronous switching circuits. The first five may be modeled by quasi-machines with a special property, such quasi-machines being called abstract machines."
"This paper studies a class of switching networks which are constructed by cascading two-input, single-output completely flexible binary logical cells. It is assumed that each cell can be adjusted at will in order that any one of the sixteen possible switching functions of its two binary inputs may be obtained at its single output lead. An n-input cascaded network is composed of n-l, two-input, single output logical cells. The inputs to a typical cell Ai consist of a signal variable Xi and the output ai from the preceding cell Ai-1. For the end cell A1 the inputs are the signal variables X0 and X1. The output is derived from the terminal cell An-1. In view of the growing interest in the area of ``self-organizing'' or ``adaptive'' switching networks, the study of the type of network just discussed seems to be pertinent. The results presented here are pertinent to typical n-input cascaded structures, and consist of characterization and enumeration of the class of all n-place realizable switching functions, test procedure for the determination of the realizability of arbitrary n-place switching functions, and finally determination of all possible cascaded structures for synthesis of realizable n-place switching functions. The paper develops some new techniques especially suited to the present study. These techniques may also hopefully find applications in other types of logic synthesis."
"The vertex frame is similar to an n-dimensional cube or Tychonoff frame that has been cut and unfolded into the shape of a Karnaugh map. The methods of use are similar to those for Karnaugh maps. Minimal disjunctive and conjunctive normal formulas are found for problems with or without don't-care cases. The selection graph, a linear graph, is used to enhance the prime antecedent (= prime implicant) selection procedure. The vertex frame readily handles most problems of up to six variables. Problems with seven and eight variables have been worked successfully, but this is an area where more experience is needed in working out actual problems that arise in engineering practice. As with any map method, pattern recognition plays an important role, and thus it takes longer to become proficient in this method than in some of the formula-manipulation methods (e.g., Quine's, McCluskey's, Mott's). The problem of recognizing plots, on a vertex frame, of symmetric and unate truth functions is discussed."
"Sequential table look-up algorithms are proposed for the evaluation of ln x and exp x. Tables of pre-computed constants are utilized in transforming the argument into a range where the function may be approximated by a simpler polynomial. In the case of ln x, x is transformed so that it falls into a close neighborhood of 1; in the case of exp x, x is transformed to a close neighborhood of 0. These algorithms are particularly effective when mechanized so as to carry out the predetermined sequence of operations without waste manipulation. Such special purpose organization is reasonable within the variable structure part of UCLA's proposed Fixed-Plus-Variable structure computer, as the same equipment may be reorganized for use in other special purpose configurations at other times. In this paper the sequential table look-up algorithms and their speed advantages over existing subroutine approximation procedures are described. The design of special purpose configurations which leads to another factor of speed increase as compared to a stored program implementation of the algorithms is presented. The properties of the supervisory control which integrate the operation of the ``fixed structure'' general purpose computer and the ``variable structure'' special purpose configurations are specified and the over-all computational gains evaluated. An order-of-magnitude increase in speed compared to existing subroutines is predicted in both cases."
"The design of a special-purpose digital computer for solving simultaneous equations which operates with numbers coded in the residue number system is described. Since addition, subtraction or multiplication can be done in one-bit time using this coding, Gauss-Seidel iteration can be done in a very fast and efficient manner. The computer has been arbitrarily designed to solve dense systems of equations with as many as 128 unknowns and sparse systems with as many as 512 unknowns. Operating at a 500-kc clock rate, the computer would be able to perform one complete iteration on a system with 128 unknowns 30 times faster than an IBM 704. Using a 7 digit residue code requiring a 42-bit word, the computer would provide solutions of up to 4 significant figures. By using the best presently obtainable components, computing speed can be increased by a factor of 5. The size of the system which can be handled and the number of significant digits which can be obtained in the solutions can also be extended if desired. The speed of computation obtained with this computer is made possible by the combination of the one-bit-time arithmetic operations obtainable with residue numbers, the high data rate possible with a magnetic drum, and the sequential nature of the Gauss-Seidel iteration procedure. The digital techniques which have been developed to realize a computer of this type include methods of encoding decimal numbers into residue representation, rescaling residue numbers, and decoding residue numbers into binary coded decimal form."
"In the synthesis of switching circuits, a formal representation of the function to be realized by the circuit is first established and simplified as much as possible. Only then is construction of the circuit undertaken. It is argued that an analogous strategy should be followed in the synthesis of digital computer programs: the function to be realized by a program should first be established in a suitable formalism; the resulting formal expression should then be simplified as much as possible; only at this point should translation into the final ``machine'' program be undertaken. In the light of this discussion, the simplification of a certain type of elementary program, containing no branching or internal modification, is considered in detail. It is argued that the analysis of this type of program, whose formalization is called a ``computational chain,'' is a prerequisite to the analysis of more general programs. A system of notation is developed, and rules are given for minimizing the temporary storage requirements associated with a computational chain, for eliminating vacuous and redundant parts, and for forming combinations of chains."
"A data-processing technique is described in which a function is evaluated by rapid interrogation of the given data for the presence of combinations of data variables giving rise to values of the function which are of interest. Testing unlabeled measurements from several observers to find data sets which satisfy a test function is discussed as an example. For many problems the required time is much shorter than that needed when processing is carried out by a high speed general purpose machine. Logical design and equipment requirements for solution of such a problem by data interrogation are discussed."
"The system design and evaluation of an experimental system are presented. The ``Stenowriter'' utilizes a special-purpose translation computer, equipped with a large random-access memory, to provide real-time processing of spoken material into typewritten English. The input is provided by an operator using a special keyboard with which information may be stenographically encoded as rapidly as it is spoken. The stenographic code is automatically processed by the translation system into corresponding English with proper spelling and format. The output appears on an electric typewriter. Through multiplexing techniques, information for a large number of input-output units can be processed, each on a real-time basis, by one computer."
"It is necessary to understand the static thermal properties of cryotron gates before one can predict the limitations associated with dissipative heating of a complex cryotronic computer. An experimental program has been conducted to determine the thermal properties of isolated and of thermally coupled gates. All experiments reported in this paper were performed on tin gates evaporated onto glass substrates. The total thermal conductance K of a gate is defined, and experimental values of K are presented as a function of power and gate geometry. An analysis of the heat flow is given, based on a temperature-dependent coefficient of heat transfer. Theoretical values of K and temperature distribution are derived. The theory qualitatively predicts the temperature variation. Finally, the results are extrapolated to estimate the number of cryotrons that can be used safely in a thermally coupled system."
"A full binary adder utilizing a single tunnel diode and three resistors as its basic components is described, the circuit design criteria is outlined and values for a typical case are computed. The operating rate of the adder was determined analytically to be approximately 3 nsec. Experimental results obtained with a practical circuit that employed a 1N2939 tunnel diode were in good agreement with the analytical findings. The Sum and Carry outputs were 130 mv and 300 mv, respectively. These outputs need to be amplified if used to drive identical stages since there is no gain in this circuit. Since a full binary adder is a multipurpose logic element, a simple, compact, full binary adder that contains few components presents attractive possibilities for new computer logical schemes. This adder offers circuit simplicity and stability and is particularly suitable for application where low-power dissipation and compactness are desired."
"Circuits which are analogous to multipath magnetic cores are described. Toroidal cores are employed to simulate the branches of the multipath core. The conservation of flux at a node is simulated by means of shorted windings connecting groups of cores. These insure that the sum of the flux changes in the cores on a given winding will vanish. Ampere's law is simulated by proper choice of both number of turns and core dimensions. Equations are derived which determine the parameters of the analog in terms of those of the multipath core. These state that the volume of a core must be proportional to the volume of the corresponding branch, that the number of turns a shorted winding makes on a core should be proportional to the ratio of core diameter to branch length, and that the number of ampere-turns of externally supplied drive should also be proportional to this ratio. Analog circuits employing single-turn coupling loops and cores of different diameters are discussed as a special case. Another special case employs multiturn windings but identical cores. It is shown that the current flowing in a shorted winding is proportional to the magnetic potential of the corresponding node of the multipath core. The use of the core analog for the direct observation of internodal magnetic potential differences is illustrated by means of oscilloscope photographs of the magnetic potential difference between the nodes of a three-rung laddic."
"After a brief survey of the basic Atlas machine, the paper describes an automatic system which in principle can be applied to any combination of two storage systems so that the combination can be regarded by the machine user as a single level. The actual system described relates to a fast core store-drum combination. The effect of the system on instruction times is illustrated, and the tape transfer system is also introduced since it fits basically in through the same hardware. The scheme incorporates a ``learning'' program, a technique which can be of greater importance in future computers."
"A fundamental problem in the design of fast (4 to 6 μsec) word oriented memories using S-1 core material is the realization of a sensing amplifier which has the multitude of required properties. The sense amplifier is usually required to provide stable gain for bipolarity signals, to introduce a negligible delay into the signal path, to avoid dc level shift, to recover within a short time following the enable (or inhibit) noise, to provide a stable discrimination level, etc. Although many sense amplifier designs have appeared in the literature, none, to the authors' knowledge, are eminently suitable for a 4- to 6-μsec memory under the condition of ``worst case input pattern''-a long sequence of unipolarity pulses interspaced with ``blasts'' of enable noise. The basic requirements for a sense amplifier suitable for a word oriented memory in conjunction with a required memory cycle are discussed. This newly developed sense amplifier and its operation and design are presented. Emphasis is placed on the evolution of the techniques and circuits presented, and several other approaches pursued during the design are also described. The authors also comment on possible future approaches to the sensing problem."
"A single write-read head coupled with saturation recording techniques is commonly used to store digital information. Because of the experimental difficulty in determining the contribution of individual parameters to the system, a theoretical equation describing the output of a system in terms of the physical, magnetic, and electrical parameters of the system has been developed and programmed for the IBM 704 Data Processing System. When applied to an experimental NRZ system, excellent agreement between observed and calculated results was obtained. The phenomena of peak or phase shift and amplitude shift occurring for an isolated pair of adjacent ones at high bit densities is demonstrated and discussed. The calculated dependence of the zero-to-peak output and the peak-and-amplitude shifts is shown for variations in the thickness, retentivity, coercivity and squareness of the storage medium, and for variations in the write current, the head-to-medium spacing, and the pole gap dimensions."
"A cylindrical magnetic stylus driven by a coil can be used to transfer bits of information onto a magnetic surface. These bits are recorded as round spots and combinations of these spots can form a desired pattern, e.g., numbers or letters. A mathematical model corresponding to the magnetic properties of a recorded spot is proposed and analyzed. The major considerations in the analysis are the field pattern existing about the spot, the self-demagnetization of the spot, and interference resulting from crowding the spots. Field mappings, obtained with a miniature Hall probe, were used to experimentally verify the proposed model. The experimental results show that the analytic model can predict the magnetic configuration of the spot at distances away from the recording surface that are considerably greater than the surface thickness. An alternate model is proposed for studying spot properties in regions quite close to the recording surface."
"A stochastic model is presented which gives the probabilities of successful recognition of the Browning-Bledsoe recognition scheme as a function of scheme parameters and pattern variability parameters. Also, procedures are given for estimating the variability parameters from data so that the model can be used to predict readability. The adequacy of the model is checked by comparing estimated readability with observed readability for two sets of data, one with high variability and one with low variability. The Browning-Bledsoe recognition scheme is also treated as a coding and decoding problem in which case the concepts of information theory are useful. Finally, brief mention is made of the connection between pattern recognition problems and classification problems in general, and the Browning-Bledsoe recognition scheme is compared and contrasted with other recognition schemes which make use of measurements on patterns."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A previous paper gives a procedure for the testing and realization of linearly-separable switching functions, i.e., functions which can be realized by a single threshold component. That procedure can be considerably simplified, particularly when the given function is symmetric in sets of two or more variables. The simplifications arise due to a reduction of the number of functions in the function tree in view of the coefficient ordering. Although this procedure was derived with the aim of reducing the amount of computation below that required for straightforward solution of the simultaneous inequalities that define the problem, the resulting method has some interesting relationships to that due to Winder."
"This paper considers the problem of automatically testing a sequential switching circuit. It is assumed that the sequential circuit is nonclocked in order that the same automatic tester may be used for a wide class of circuits. The program for the tester is to be generated by an IBM 7090 computer from the logical description of the circuit to be tested. The specific problem considered here is to write a program for the 7090 in order to accomplish this purpose. A method of solution and a brief description of the program are given and a worked example is supplied."
"A relatively fast procedure for assigning codes to the internal states of a sequential machine is described, which leads to a reasonably economical logical realization of the machine in many cases. The method is applicable to both completely and incompletely specified state tables, and permits the use of redundant internal variables if desired. An algorithm which implements the method approximately, and which is nonenumerative, has been programmed for the 7090 computer. The program handles problems with up to 100 internal states and 30 input symbols, or 3000 total states. It has performed a problem of maximum size in 120 seconds. Although fast, the method sometimes fails to attain truly economical logic in cases where unusually simple realizations are known to exist (e.g., the shift register). More comprehensive methods are now known, which in principle can produce better results, but which will be far more tedious to execute. They will be reported separately."
"This paper is primarily concerned with finding, in the most efficient possible way, the set of all solutions to a cyclic prime implicant table. (A solution is a set of rows such that every column contains at least one marked entry in a row belonging to the set and such that no row can be deleted from the set without destroying this property.) Extensive use is made of the relationship between this and the problem of efficiently reducing a Boolean frontal function from the form of a product of sums of single literals to a sum of products. The transformation methods commonly in use today have the disadvantage that they tend to introduce duplicate and redundant products. (A redundant product includes at least one row which can be removed, and the remaining rows will still constitute a solution.) Several methods which appreciably reduce the number of such redundancies are presented. One of these methods (called row branching), applies repeatedly the algebraic transformation f = af(α = 1) + f(μ= 0) where μ is the Boolean variable corresponding to a row of the table, and f is the function corresponding to the given table. The mechanism by which a redundant solution is generated is described. The paper includes other useful transformation procedures such as, for example, a tabular method in which redundancies are avoided systematically at each step."
"Sequential circuits techniques for the synthesis of digital-computer-control units are investigated. The assumption is made that the operations to be controlled are complex sequences of asynchronous events linked by precedence relations. An algorithm for the synthesis of the control unit flow table from the list of precedence statements is given."
"The problem of sign determination in nonredundant residue systems is investigated. A general theorem is derived establishing necessary conditions for sign detection, and the use of this theorem is demonstrated through specific examples. It is shown that for a particular system organization these same conditions are also sufficient for sign detection. An implementation of this last system is presented for four moduli."
"Maximum-likelihood encoding and decoding procedures are presented for cyclic permutation error-correcting codes. These procedures take advantage of the cyclic permutation structure, and are applicable to all such codes. On the other hand, familiar parity-checking procedures are applicable only to those few cyclic permutation codes which are group codes. A comparison of the two different procedures for the group code case shows that they are roughly comparable in complexity."
"A method of computer multiplication and division is proposed which uses binary logarithms. The logarithm of a binary number may be determined approximately from the number itself by simple shifting and counting. A simple add or subtract and shift operation is all that is required to multiply or divide. Since the logarithms used are approximate there can be errors in the result. An error analysis is given and a means of reducing the error for the multiply operation is shown."
"A step-by-step procedure is presented for formulating circuit synthesis problems in a manner amenable to solution using linear programming. A method of systematizing component value determination using linear programming is explained. The design equations and conditions required to synthesize a diode-coupled inverter and a design procedure for achieving an optimum circuit are presented. The Simplex Method is used to determine component values such that power dissipation is minimized."
"In this paper a circuit is developed which provides a train of uniform pulses logarithmically spaced in time. As applied to computing the system offers new methods for calculating products, quotients, powers, and roots. A pulse-interval error of less than one per cent (rms) was obtained with an experimental circuit."
"A technique for performing Stieltjes integration on an analog computer is developed. The particular class of integrator functions considered consists of those functions of bounded variation with a finite number of jump discontinuities. The desired results are achieved through the use of analog logic and memory circuits and an example given showing an application of the method."
"The three translational and three rotational equilibrium equations for an orbital vehicle subject to aerodynamic and jet reaction forces are derived using a modified flight-path axis system for the translational equations. The dependent variables of the system are horizontal velocity component, vertical velocity component, and flight-path heading angle. Theresulting equations are shown to have advantages for computer mechanization over alternative axis systems for the translational equations. Complete equations for determining vehicle orientation, instantaneous latitude and longitude, angle of attack, angle of sideslip, areodynamic forces and moments, etc., are presented. Modifications in the translational equations which allow direct solution by an analog computer are also given. Analog computer mechanization of these equations in both real and fast time is described, including a novel technique for division which preserves favorable multiplier scaling. Specific machine results are presented which demonstrate accurate solution of close-satellite trajectories, including re-entry from satellite altitudes to sea level. With no change in circuit or scaling the same computer mechanization yields zero-drag orbits which close within several hundred feet of altitude."
"The compass and straightedge of Euclidean geometry offer many computational possibilities. Their analog computer realization as described here was developed for the study of the kinematics of machinery, but may be useful in several other areas. For the particular case discussed it was necessary to realize these tools without the use of special electronic devices and to make them available for simultaneous use at an arbitrary number of locations. Low operating frequencies were acceptable. The realization utilizes dynamic computing equipment to generate a reference circle or line, and simple logic in the utilization of the reference. The system may be extended to function generation and multiplication."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A set of procedures for assigning codes to internal states of a synchronous sequential machine so as to minimize the internal logic in two-level form is proposed. The procedures are based on interpreting the state table of a sequential machine as a set of mappings from present states into next states, under control of the inputs. Attention is focused on a particular subset of these mappings, called pr mappings. A numerical score is assigned to each pr mapping, which is a measure of the desirability of ``selecting'' the mapping for inclusion in a ``basic set'' of mappings. A basic set has the property of determining a unique code assignment (within a symmetry of the cube of internal states). The procedures are applied to a 3-stage shift register and result in the optimum encoding for that device. Finally, it is briefly indicated how three previous assignment methods, including one developed by the author, are related to those described here. Algorithms are presented for some but not all of the proposed procedures. These algorithms must be completed before the proposals can be implemented by a computer program."
"Three notions are introduced: 1) a class of logic nets with ``disjunctively linear structure,'' 2) ``disjunctively linear behavior'' or logic nets, and 3) ``position diagrams'' to represent logic nets. Through the study of their properties, it is shown that there is a close relationship between disjunctively linear structures and the behavior of logic nets. It is then shown that the state diagrams of Moore and Mealy and the regular expression of Kleene can be considered as particular manifestations of the notion of disjunctive linearity. By means of the notion of disjunctive linearity, a unified treatment is given to state diagrams by Mealy and the logic nets constructed by Copi, Elgot, and Wright from regular expressions. Finally, a discussion is given to the normal form and the position diagram providing a technique for describing disjunctively linear logic nets. Some problems, such as the practical application of disjunctively linear logic nets for hazard-free operation and the minimization of regular expressions through the use of position diagrams, are suggested."
"The synthesis of a threshold element which realizes a desired Boolean function as its output may be accomplished by solving a basic set of linear inequalities. The determination of this basic set is discussed with the aid of a geometric interpretation of such realizable functions on the vertices of a unit N cube. A solution may be obtained to these inequalities by linear programming. In this paper, a method of synthesis which lends itself to rapid and simple hand computation is given."
"The design of a repairable redundant computer is discussed using the Von Neumann multiplexing scheme. The general considerations, as well as the reasons for selecting this type of redundancy, are given. A reliability model of the redundant equipment is presented with resulting curves for estimating the reliability improvement and the additional cost of the redundant equipment. The mean time between failures of a typical redundant computer is shown to be several orders of magnitude greater than that of the nonredundant version of the same computer."
"A method is described for designing systems which automatically check themselves and give indications by which internal faults can be located quickly and accurately. Relatively little circuitry is required, and the performance of the test and fault location are easy. The proposed method entails the arrangement of a sequence of events which can be completed properly only if no malfunction exists. Applied to a 555-transistor digital system, the method yielded the following results: An indicator-light test and a 2.27-second self-check provide 100 per cent confidence that the device is in perfect order. 90 per cent of the trouble indications isolate faults to one or two plug-in cards, each holding one to six transistor circuits. This checking capability is provided by only 182. per cent of the transistors in the system."
"An efficient error correction code for correcting errors of one kind in an arbitrary N-character message is discussed. The coded check character is obtained by summing the weighted coded characters (columns of binary digits where each binary digit assumes a unique weight) within an entire record modulo a prime integer. This check character is then added to the record before transmission over a channel (e.g., magnetic tape). A single parity check is appended to each character of the record to make possible single error detection per character. The received message, perturbed by noise in a constant position or single track, is decoded by again adding up the received information plus check characters in a modulo p counter. Error location is achieved by solving for x in the expression ax mod p, when a, the number of parity checks that failed, and ax mod p, the contents of a mod p counter, are known. This type of residue check may be employed to indicate which track is in error. Thus, error correction can be performed on the characters containig parity check failures."
"A transistor amplifier with nonlinear tunnel-diode or backward-diode feedback is described for use as a resistor-coupled threshold logic circuit or general purpose switch. The tunnel-diode feedback serves to virtually eliminate saturation and prevent cutoff thus allowing the high gain-bandwidth products of epitaxial switching transistors to be utilized at all times during switching. Switching plus delay times as low as 2 nsec have been observed with a fan in and fan out of three. Ring oscillator experiments show that delays per stage from 2 to 5 nsec are easily obtained with logical gains of two or three. The input impedance of the network is 3 to 12 ohms leading to a very practical threshold network. The particular logic decision is determined only by the bias current. Tolerance calculations are presented that indicate component requirements will not be severe. The peak current is not a critical parameter and can easily vary 100 per cent. Due to the quantizing effect of the tunnel-diode feedback, circuits with fan ins and fan outs of three would operate satisfactorily under worst case conditions with 2 per cent resistors and mild restrictions on the transistor and diode parameters. By adding backward diodes in series with the input resistors the tolerance requirements can be relaxed to 10 per cent resistors and slight restrictions on the diodes or transistor parameters. By using backward diodes the fan in and fan out can be substantially increased with little loss in speed."
"When the flux in the driven branch of a multipath core is reversed most of it will return via the shortest return path in the core. A small fraction will return by the next shortest. The ratio of the flux change in the shortest path to that in the next shortest is called the branching ratio r. Experimental branching ratios are much larger than they reasonably should be. In this paper a magnetic circuit analysis which neglects leakage and reversible flux but includes the dependence of branch reluctance on flux is applied to the three-rung laddic. The calculations predict a branching ratio at infinite drive which is about a factor of two greater than might be naively expected. Except in special cases they predict that it should decrease monotonically with drive. Experimentally it may either increase, decrease, or saturate shortly after threshold. The experimental values are uniformly greater than the theoretical. It appears likely that the disparity between theory and experiment can be attributed to flux leakage during switching. This leakage may be minimized by silver plating the core. A remeasurement of the branching ratio as a function of drive and geometry seems to be indicated at the present time."
"For the improvement of the performance of the sense-amplifier circuit for conventional ferrite-core memories, the principles of pre-amplification strobing and noise-matched clipping are proposed and discussed. A circuit incorporating these principles and achieving notable reliability and economy is described. The circuit is suitable for working with short cycle times and low signal-to-noise ratio values and can be used to process matrices of sizes considerably larger than 4096 cores."
"Within the framework of an early paper1 which considers character recognition as a statistical decision problem, the detailed structure of a recognition system can be systematically derived from the functional form of probability distributions. A binary matrix representation of signal is used in this paper. A nearest-neighbor dependence method is obtained by going beyond the usual assumption of statistical independence. The recognition network consists of three levels-a layer of AND gates, a set of linear summing networks in parallel, and a maximum selection circuit. Formulas for weights or recognition parameters are also derived, as logarithms of ratios of conditional probabilities. These formulas lead to a straightforward procedure of estimating weights from sample characters, which are then used in subsequent recognition. Simulation of the recognition method is performed on a digital computer. The program consists of two main operations-estimation of parameters from sample characters, and recognition using these estimated values. The experimental results indicate that the effect of neighbor dependence upon recognition performance is significant. On the basis of a rather small sample of 50 sets of hand-printed alphanumeric characters, the recognition performance of the nearest-neighbor method compares favorably with other recognition schemes."
"It is shown in this paper how a straightforward solution to the regression problem can be obtained for continuous variables on a general-purpose analog computer. The linear case (least squares straight line) is thoroughly described. A specific nonlinear problem, that of estimating the parameters of a missile trajectory, is also described. The regression equations are derived and analog computer circuits for the solution are drawn. It is also shown that the steepest descent technique for parameter optimization is essentially the same technique as the classical statistical methods of multivariate regression analysis, but that significant analog computer circuit simplification occurs in using the steepest descent technique applied directly to the objective function."
"This paper describes the working of the APACHE (Analog Programing And CHEcking) system for the production of analog computer programs using a digital computer, which has been developed jointly by digital and analog programers at the computation center of EURATOM in Ispra, Italy. The language which has been formulated for the writing of analog problems is discussed and its rules are set out in the Appendix, while the processes involved in the utilization of the program are described and illustrated by an example of the listing of the digital computer input and output for a range of equation types. Finally, the significance of this new programing system in terms of economic exploitation of the analog machine, the use of trained personnel, and the design of new computers, are considered briefly."
"A technique is described for making the internal base-to-emitter junction characteristics of an alloy junction transistor available to an analog computer simulation process. This is accomplished with an active feedback network that continuously compensates for the internal voltage drop across the extrinsic base-spreading resistance at all base current levels."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Using the contact network as a representative of the class of combinational branch-type networks, various realization techniques are examined for their applicability or adaptability to the particular class of complementary-output networks, that is, two-output networks which have exactly one active output for each combination of the independent variables. Some elementary structural characteristics are developed and a particular class of functions which are minimally realized in separate parts is discussed. Upper and lower bounds are derived for the the number of contacts required to realize an arbitrary n-variable specification. Rudin's interconnection rules are extended to the non-series-parallel case and examples are given of their application. Trees are discussed in terms of a specific procedure proposed for their realization. Finally, Calingaert's reduction of the general multi-output problem to a single-output problem is reviewed in terms of the specific class of networks of interest here, and results, in conjunction with Moore's tables of minimal four-variable networks, in a table of minimal three-variable complementary-output networks."
"As an attempt to investigate a general theory of real-time computability in digital computers, a subclass of Turing machines is formally introduced together with some classes of functions that are computable by them in real time. Then the existence is established of a class of recursive functions that are not computable in real time by use of a class of machines, no matter how general we make the machines subject to a given constraint."
"Binary division methods employing a redundant quotient representation in which quotient digits assume the values 0, 1, or -1 have been analyzed previously. The method in which partial remainders are always normalized is of particular interest; it yields quotients represented with a minimal number of nonzero digits for all divisors D in the range ⅗≤|D|≤¾. This method is extended to yield minimally represented quotients for all normalized divisors."
"The information storage density in digital magnetic recording is dependent on both the pulse resolution and the track definition. This paper is concerned with these two factors in the design of magnetic heads for noncontact recording.1 A concept of changed pole-tip geometry which led to a significant improvement of pulse resolution is introduced. A general expression based on ``single-pulse'' superposition is derived for various bit densities2 and data codes. In addition, several recording methods are discussed for achieving near-maximum track density2 under various head-repositioning error3 conditions. As shown, high-density heads for noncontact recording have been designed successfully by applying the concept and techniques developed. Good correlation has been realized between analytical and experimental results. Performance characteristics under simulated machine conditions are presented."
"A three-terminal network consisting of two matched tunnel diodes and a fixed resistor is introduced as a basic element for performing peak threshold summation logic. The characteristic between two terminals resembles a tunnel diode curve where application of a signal or bias current to the third terminal causes reduction of the observed peak current. Decrease of this peak current below a fixed load line allows switching from the low- to the high-voltage state for logic-function circuit operation. Such bias-controlled tunnel pairs are shown to be unilateral to a considerable extent (30 db). This is advantageous in logic networks since it allows directional flow of information without the provision of multiphase power supplies or backward diodes, as needed in conventional tunnel diode logic circuits to eliminate back-switching. Circuits are described based on this principle, consisting entirely of tunnel junctions and resistors, for performing OR, MAJORITY, AND and NOR logic. Generalized design equations for circuits with a fan-in of M and a fan-out of N are derived. Test circuits based upon the generalized equations with a fan-in of 9 and a fan-out of 5 were found to operate over a temperature range from -70° to +60°C. A sample switching speed measurement for an OR gate using 1-ma tunnel diodes and a normal degree of drive showed a 7.5-nsec rise time which was triple that observed with a single tunnel diode under similar conditions."
"A single-variable function generator, based on a pulse averaging method,1 accepts a width-modulated pulse input. The clock generator accuracy determines the precision with which this device can produce a linear-segment curve. With 300-kc flip-flops in the clock, a static repeatability of ±0.02 per cent has been obtained with a carrier frequency of 100 cps, and ±1 per cent with a 10-kc carrier frequency. This device can multiply the single-variable function by a second input variable at no loss of accuracy and with no additional circuitry."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The development of a computer-directed control system for a complex industrial unit, such as a chemical plant, a petroleum refinery, or an electrical power distribution system, can be segmented into three major parts."
"In the course of his work the systems engineer is constantly faced with the problem of analyzing the performance of proposed systems configurations. He needs to design the operating conditions of the proposed system to give optimum performance and determine whether the configuration will meet the specifications laid down for the system. The performances of individual components of the system are usually well understood but, with the increasing size and complexity of systems, it has become very difficult to estimate the performance of the many possible combinations of components that need to be considered in the course of designing a, system."
"Systems engineering is concerned with the synthesis and analysis of systems of men and machines having specified objectives. Such performance objectives are commonly expressed in terms of human values and, as a consequence, are often necessarily subjective. Furthermore, the systems under consideration invariably exploit the interaction of men with physical components. It is this high degree of human involvement which particularly distinguishes systems engineering from the more conventional fields of engineering. Thus, the design and analysis of a message handling information system is a systems engineering activity, whereas the design and evaluation of a water pump falls within conventional practice"
"There are, of course, many problems meriting further investigation: tables in their present form can become unwieldy when problem segments are prefaced by one or two simple decisions rather than six or seven complicated ones; it would sometimes be convenient to have rules in a table refer to other rules in the same table; rule identifiers in which the variable values are connected by (“or” rather than (“and” would sometimes be a convenience, and so on. Such further investigation would be desirable, since it would enhance the already considerable merit of tables as a means to implement program logic."
"This paper is an interim report on a study of computer room operation in a large computational center. The study is being conducted by Lockheed and IBM personnel at the Lockheed Missiles and Space Company (Sunnyvale, California). In order to understand the motivation of the specific study objectives stated below, a brief description of the Lockheed Missiles' computational procedures are given."
"The Trim Problem has many forms, and most of this paper will be devoted to a discussion of the simplest one, the so-called onedimensional Trim Problem. Some other—and more difficult forms—will be mentioned at the end, but even the simplest case has both applications significance and technical difficulties that make it interesting. To gain some idea of the problem, consider this case."
"The fact that arithmetic is performed on the IBMB® 1620 Data Processing System by means of TABLE LOOKUP provides an opportunity for introducing special operations which may be executed by suitable table modification"
"Magnetization reversal at an angle to the easy direction in Ni-Fe films was studied. The results, in contrast to the single-domain theory, show no coherent rotation, even for field directions in which the critical field for rotation is smaller than the critical field for wall motion. The actual reversal is initiated by rotation of the magnetization in bands formed in the film. New experimental studies show that the reversal is subsequently completed by wall motion. A qualitative discussion of the new observations and a review of previous work give a comprehensive picture of the static reversal processes in thin Ni-Fe films."
"Methods from the theory of Markov chains are used to analyze a simple single-server queueing model. The model is of the sort that arises naturally in information-handling contexts, in that a discrete time basis is used, which matches the cyclic character of processors. Considerable generality is attained, in that no appeal is made to the exponential or other conventional forms for the probability distributions governing the number of arrivals per cycle and the service times. The principal object of study is the queue length; the stationary distribution governing this quantity is calculated, along with various associated averages. The relation between the present method and the more usual continuous-variable method is illustrated by the derivation of some of the classical equations from a limiting case of our model."
"When two superposed films exert fields on each other, their static and dynamic behaviors change. The following method or analysis is used to study the behavior: The stable states are found by minimizing the total free energy of the films. Then constant-field contours are plotted in the θ1–θ2 plane (θ's being the stable orientations of the magnetization vectors). In examining the plot, one can predict multiple stable states, switching, threshold, hysteresis, and the detailed paths of magnetization change as a function of applied field. The solution is carried out by a numerical process which permits evaluation of the following effects: the variation of the degrees of symmetries of the anisotropy energies, the relative orientation between the films, the coupling strength, and the drive-line layout. An example is carried out in sufficient detail for illustrative purposes."
"The behavior of a computation system consisting of encoders, an unreliable logical operator and a decoder is investigated. It is shown that for almost all Boolean functions, coding each block of k input bits into a block of n bits such that all sets of s or less errors will be corrected requires that n ≥ (2s + 1)k. This result suggests that the capacity (in the information theoretical sense) of such a computation system is zero."
"A novel method of electronic storage is proposed, in which an electron beam would be used to drive active and passive semiconductor devices to perform the functions of a digital memory, including those of nondestructive read-out and reset. Principally to ascertain what speeds and output signals might be currently obtained if the storage method were implemented, an experimental study was made of the response to a bombarding electron beam of commercial “four-layer” and surface-barrier diodes which could function in the proposed store respectively as storage diodes and read-out diodes. Data presented on the Shockley Laboratories’ silicon 4N20D “four-layer” diode give the reduction of firing voltage caused by the bombardment as a function of beam current and bombardment duration. It is found that a beam current as weak as 0.2 µamp can fire a diode in 1/5 µsec. Three types of germanium surface-barrier diodes were studied for maximum speed of response to the bombarding beam current pulse and for charge multiplication. The “fastest” unit tested was a Philco 2N502 transistor modified for beam access to the base region by removal of the emitter dot. This unit could be bombarded to produce a 50 nsec pulse of 0.4 v peak across a 1000-ohm load. In the light of these data and of circuit and semiconductor device theory, a preliminary discussion is presented of the feasibility of a store providing a read-in rate of 5 megapulses/sec, a read-out rate of 15 megapulses/sec and a read-out signal ratio of stored ones to stored zeroes of 50 to 1."
"Experiments are described which directly indicate the source, magnitude and direction of the residual stress on single-crystal nickel films evaporated on rock salt. A theoretical analysis using the five-constant magnetostriction equation shows how this stress affects the magnetic properties. X-ray diffraction studies indicate that the as-evaporated films exist in a highly strained condition, resulting in a tetragonal distortion of the cubic symmetry. The parameters of the unit cell are a = b = 3.500 ± 0.004 A in the plane of the film and c = 3.546 ± 0.002 A normal to the film. The stress causing this strain is elastic in character. When the film is floated off the rock salt, the parameter decreases to bulk unstrained Ni, a0 = 3.524 A. The calculation using bulk elasticity data yields a planar compressive stress σ = 1.0 × 1010 dyne/cm2, from differential thermal expansion between nickel film and NaCl substrate. This externally applied stress system influences the magnetic state of the film by contributing to the total energy of the system through a magnetoelastic interaction."
"Formulas are established which allow polarimetric determination of the amplitudes and relative phases of the Kerr (and Faraday) coefficients for ferromagnetic metals. The results are valid only for oblique angles of incidence. Hence, the technique is most useful for measurement of thin films where the magnetization vector lies in the plane of the film."
"Foglia, McDermid and Petersen have described the card capacitor memory, a semipermanent, read-only storage device utilizing replaceable metallized IBM punched cards as the information storage medium.1 Although this device has a theoretically high signal-to-noise ratio, attempts to implement the scheme in a memory of useful size have been only partially successful because of the small coupling capacity available. This letter describes a revision of the original scheme which provides coupling capacity 10 to 30 times greater while maintaining a signal-to-noise ratio adequate for many purposes."
"Warren and Averbach1 have described a method for the determination of inhomogeneous lattice strain and crystallite size by means of the Fourier analysis of the x-ray line profile. Their technique requires the measurement of more than the first order of a reflection—in special cases of more than one line. In analyzing this technique, Wagner2 has stated that it is in fact impossible to separate the influence of strain and crystallite size on the line profile by measuring only one line. However, if the sample is very thin, only one order of reflection and often only one line can be measured. For instance, for a nickel film of about 1000 A thickness and for copper Kα-radiation, the integrated intensity of the (222) reflection is only about 4 % of that of the (111). This considerable decrease of intensity is due to the Lorentz and polarization factor as well as the atomic scattering and absorption facto"
"The existence of substructure within high-energy grain boundaries has been proven for different materials.1–4 These subgrains are actually low-angle boundaries in which the orientation differences across the boundary are very small. Since this orientation difference is so slight, the procedures to show the presence of substructure are involved and often difficult."
"In a previous paper, an approximate method was developed for treating ac lass of multiqueue problems.1 These problems are of considerable interest in the design of communication systems with many terminals. The purpose of this note is to obtain expressions for some parameters often used to characterize such systems and to draw an important distinction between two different types of averages—a distinction which can lead to serious consequences if overlooked."
"Initiation and collapse of cavitation bubbles are strongly influenced by the gas content of the liquid. Degassed liquids can withstand large tensions without bubble formation : Harvey1 subjected air-saturated water to pressures of 104 psi for several minutes, forcing the air nuclei into solution; upon depressurization, the solution did not cavitate under conditions which produced cavitation before pressurization. In this note, we analyze the effect of initial air partial pressure on the growth rate and dynamic stability of a bubble."
"Several high-speed tunnel-diode logic circuits are presented which perform majority-type logic or majority-type logic with inversion, and make use of a multiphase sinusoidal power supply to obtain signal directivity. Laboratory results are presented which show operation of these circuits at a 125 Mc/sec pulse repetition rate with 2 nsec delay per logical decision. The circuits have also been operated at 250 Mc/sec. A comparison which is made between these circuits and some of the tunnel-diode logic circuits previously reported in the literature reveals certain system advantages of the new circuits. Preliminary results of both analog and digital computer analyses of the systems of nonlinear differential equations which describe these circuits are presented. These results have been in excellent agreement with those found in the laboratory. A full serial binary adder is described which produces a carry output in 2 nsec and the sum output in 4 nsec."
"Tunnel diode oscillation, flip-flop switching and Goto twin operation have been characterized on the basis of numerical integration of a nonlinear differential equation representing transient behavior in the simplified, lumped equivalent circuit. The results have provided some information for the maximum utility of a tunnel diode having a given figure of merit. A useful relationship is given for single diodes, in which switching time vs external-circuit time constant L/R is shown for various device figures of merit. Another relationship is given for twin diodes in plots of cut-off frequency vs L/R. The study is then extended to the case of oscillator diodes."
"This paper presents the results of a series of experimental studies in which a digital computer averaging technique was used to explore the dynamics of the electric response of the human somatosensory cortex evoked by pulse electrical stimulation of nerves in the wrist. A nomenclature is presented for the typical components of the complex waveform which the authors consider to be representative of the evoked potential. The effects of stimulus amplitude, bilateral and bitemporal stimulation, and sleep on the evoked corticogram were investigated. Psychophysical studies were also carried out which complemented the evoked potential studies, and comparisons were made between the neurological and psychological data."
"The transfer of electrostatic charge patterns from one surface to another requires movement of electrical charges across very small air gaps. Gaseous electronics alone is not sufficient to account for charge transport across extremely small gaps. The concept of field emission is introduced as a supplementary mechanism of charge transport and as a source of primary electrons."
"One of the proposed techniques for meeting the severe reliability requirements inherent in certain future computer applications is described. This technique involves the use of triple-modular redundancy, which is essentially the use of the two-out-of-three voting concept at a low level. Effects of imperfect voting circuitry and of various interconnections of logical elements are assessed. A hypothetical triple-modular redundant computer is subjected to a Monte Carlo program on the IBM 704, which simulates component failures. Reliability is thereby determined and compared with reliability obtained by analytical calculations based on simplifying assumptions."
"Some digit-by-digit methods for the evaluation of the elementary functions are described. The methods involve processes that resemble repeated-addition multiplication and repeated-subtraction division. Consequently, the methods are easy to implement and the resultant execution times are short."
"This paper presents a systematic procedure for the design of gate-type combinational switching circuits without directed loops. Each such circuit (Boolean graph) is in correspondence with a sequence of decompositions of the Boolean function which it realizes. A general approach to functional decomposition is given and, in terms of a convenient positional representation, efficient tests for the detection of decompositions are derived. These results are employed in the development of an alphabetic search procedure for determining minimum-cost Boolean graphs which satisfy any given design specifications."
"Polynomials are generally evaluated by use of Horner's rule, sometimes referred to as the nesting rule. This rule is sequential and affords no opportunity for parallel computation, i.e., completion of several of the arithmetic operations simultaneously. Two generalizations of Horner's rule which allow for parallel computation are presented here. Schedules and, in some cases, machine codes for evaluating a polynomial on a computer with several parallel arithmetic units are developed. Some advantages of the generalized rules in sequential computations on a computer with a single arithmetic unit are presented."
"Two approximate methods are described and used to obtain the stationary distribution of the length of a queue which is a small part of a system of many queues. The methods are based on an analogy to statistical mechanics, and give simple approximate solutions of a problem whose exact handling would be extremely complex and would require much more information than is available."
"The close relationship between superconductivity and ferromagnetism is discussed and illustrated; it is suggested that several mechanisms cause superconductivity and also ferromagnetism. Various rare earth alloys show simultaneous superconductivity and dilute ferromagnetism. Such dilute ferromagnetism does not occur, however, in the transition-metal superconductors. Striking differences in the effects of adding magnetic elements to transition-metal superconductors are traced to the presence or absence of localized magnetic moments; such occurrences show a dependence on electron concentration similar to superconductivity. Superconductivity in the transition and nontransition elements shows a simple dependence on valence electron concentration—but when such elements are mixed they interfere drastically."
"The critical temperatures of different isotopes of osmium and of zinc have been measured. The results are that Os has no isotope effect, while with Zn the critical temperature is proportional to M−½. These findings, together with our previous work on ruthenium, are consistent with the statement that there is no isotope effect for the transition elements, whereas the full M−½ effect exists for nontransition elements."
"In an article bearing the same title which appeared in the previous issue of this Journal, von Hagenow and Koppe1 published a calculation which was intended to prove that the electron mean free path has no influence on the free energy or the Meissner effect. However, besides being in contradiction with a consensus of theoretical and experimental evidence,2,3 their calculation contains errors which we shall dicuss below."
"This communication is a comment on the Letter by F. P. Palermo on network minimization, published recently in the IBM Journal."
"The problem of determining the characteristics of a magnetic field in the vicinity of a recording head air gap can be idealized to represent a boundary-value problem, as shown in Fig. 1. Here, the pole pieces are at potentials +π and −π, respectively. A solution already exists for those cases where π = 0 and π = π/2."
"The purposeo f this Letteri s to show how the technique of differential interferometry can be used to decided advantage for examining metallurgical specimens in cases where ordinary bright-field and phase-contrast techniques are inadequate."
"This Letter is an extension of the paper published by Gazalé1 in this Journal in April 1957."
"Personal exchanges play an important role in meeting the information needs of the scientific community. A recent study1 suggested that about 40% of all the articles, reports, textbooks, symposia and annual reviews read during a two-week diary period by scientists and technologists were obtained through personal recommendations from colleagues. This suggests the possibility of establishing an information exchange system utilizing to a greater extent the channels of communication among scientific workers."
"Sample photographs from the TIROS I Weather Satellite have been successfully transformed into a Mercator projection using automatic digital techniques. Mathematical formulas expressing the relation between the photoplane and the Mercator projection have been derived, and a computer program has been written to efficiently manipulate a “digital photograph” in accordance with the formulas."
"An algorithm is developed for the analysis and design of computing systems having a multiplicity of concurrent and independent information sources and a lesser number of input channels to the processing elements of a digital computer; the input-output links work simultaneously with the processing and computing elements of the system. Utilizing this algorithm, such problems pertaining to the amount of hardware and the interconnection of its components can be resolved. For an optimum system design, its parameters are subject to two major criteria, i.e., the amount of information transmitted to the central processing elements per unit time, and the degree of overlapping of input output operations with computing (or other processing operations) that can be attained. Part I of this paper is devoted to information sources of the sequential access, serial-by-character (or-bit) transmission class. Magnetic tape units are specifically dealt with. With minor modifications the method is applicable to other information sources of the same class. In Part I, three fundamental system configurations are discussed and results of computations are summarized. In Part II, information sources of the quasi-random and random access class are investigated within the framework established in Part I. Disk files were selected as a specific representative of the quasi-random and random access information sources."
"The growth of a bubble within a volume of isothermal viscous liquid containing uniformly distributed dissolved gas is considered. The problem of characterizing this growth-by-mass-transfer is reduced to an integro-differential equation for the bubble radius as a function of time, and a computer solution is obtained. The initial and final stages of growth are treated analytically."
"Spin systems exhibit a whole spectrum of absorption lines when in small constant external magnetic fields giving Zeeman energies comparable to internal interaction energies. With such small constant magnetic fields, power is absorbed from an alternating magnetic field at zero frequency, at the Larmor frequency, and at harmonics of the Larmor frequency, both for perpendicular- and parallel-field configurations. The calculation of this spectrum for spin systems in powdered materials is the main purpose of this paper. Both magnetic dipole-dipole and electric quadrupole internal interactions are considered and treated as second-order perturbations on the Zeeman interaction. The intensities of the two absorption lines that occur at the Larmor frequency and double the Larmor frequency are obtained for the parallel-field case. The intensity, frequency shift, and second moment of the Larmor line, and the intensities of the lines that occur at zero frequency and double the Larmor frequency, are obtained for the perpendicular-field case. The second-order calculation for powdered materials gives results which are identical within a constant factor for both dipole-dipole and quadrupole interactions."
"One of the limiting factors in high-density recording on magnetic tape is the phenomenon of peak shift. With the NRZI code (flux change on a one, no flux change on a zero) this means that the reproduced signals from two successive ones preceded and followed by zeros are separated in time by more than the natural bit period. The peaks in the signal output from the two ones are thus shifted outwards. An experiment is described in which the peak shift is measured in particle-oriented tape as a function of the angle θ between the direction of recording and the direction of orientation. The dc hysteresis properties of the tape were also measured as a function of θ. It was found that the peak shift had a minimum when θ was approximately 65° for the tape and recording head used in this experiment. At this angle the remanence-coercivity was high, while the coercivity and the ratio of remanence to saturation intensity were low. Qualitative explanations of these results are offered and their significance is briefly discussed."
"A description is given of an IBM 7090 program which searches for “logical patterns” in a set of input samples. The program was tested on a character recognition problem, where it designed a recognition system whose error rate and hardware requirements are compared to those of a system designed by humans. This program is intended to be used as a research tool to discover certain kinds of patterns in data and as a step in the direction of automatic logic design for some character recognition problems."
"The development of maser sources of intense monochromatic light has opened a new field of experimentation in optics where nonlinear terms in the optical polarizability of transparent piezoelectric materials make possible the generation of optical harmonics1,2 and the mixing of light waves having different directions of propagation3 and freqency.4 In this previous mixing experiments the intense, relatively coherent outputs of optical masers were used. We report here the mixing of a ruby maser signal with spectral lines of a mercury lamp which are quite broad and relatively weak."
"We have prepared a new compound, europium tungstate, which exhibits fluorescence of good intensity in a relatively narrow spectral range. The material is easily prepared without the addition of fluxing agents, and the resulting peak-fluorescence intensity is comparable to that reported for europium in calcium tungstate."
"From an analysis of the RNA code and known distributions of protein and C-G content, it is shown that: (1) There exist RNA coding triples containing no U (2) The RNA code is incorrect; or (3) The code relating DNA to RNAis different from or A; or that generally supposed."
"In a previous experiment it was shown that complete rotation of the magnetization in thin NiFe films, lasting only a few nanoseconds, can take place when rapidly rising field pulses of sufficiently high amplitude are applied. In this experiment the film remained in the single-domain state during the flux reversal, which is in contrast to static-switching experiments where the film splits up into many domains during the process. This Letter discusses partial-switching processes which occur when rapidly rising field pulses with amplitudes just beyond the rotational threshold are applied to the film. In this case the film is also split up into fine domains. This is interpreted as being caused by inhomogeneities of the magnetic properties of the film. Further, an unexpected creep effect occurs for field pulses with amplitudes somewhat below the wall coercive threshold Hc, which is attributed to partial wall motion starting from the edge domains of reversed magnetization."
"The presence of dislocation loops in germanium resulting from condensed vacancies has been assumed1,2 to explain various deformation, diffusion, and etching phenomena. Booker and Stickler3 have recently shown that such dislocation loops can be observed in thin foils of n-type germanium by transmission electron microscopy. The loops were produced in arsenicdoped germanium containing 1016 atoms/cc by quenching bulk material from 850°C, thinning by chemical polishing to make foil approximately 1500 A thick, and annealing the foil in the high-intensity electron beam. The loops, which grew with continued annealing, eventually transformed into discs, and Booker and Stickler explained the results by suggesting the formation of clusters consisting of vacancies and impurity atoms. According to their model, the growing clusters, upon reaching a critical size, collapse to form loops. The loops can then absorb more impurity atoms and ultimately transform into platelike particles."
"The purpose of this Letter is to describe the results of electron beam microanalysis of impurities in germanium tunnel diodes. The apparent possibilities and limits of applicability for tunnel diode technology will be discussed."
"Theory and experiment are compared for a number of phenomena in superconductors. While the agreement is generally good, there are some discrepancies for which there is no adequate explanation."
"The influence of impurities on the behaviour of a superconductor is computed by introducing a scattering potential and averaging over all positions of the scattering centers. This procedure only takes into account scattering and free path effects and neglects changes in the elastic constants and electron density due to actual impurities. Using perturbation theory, it is shown that the free energy and the static Meissner effect are not influenced by scattering."
"The BCS integral equation has been studied for nonseparable interactions of the Bardeen-Pines form, V(|εε’|). Numerical solutions were obtained using an IBM 7090 for a simple interaction of this form which included the effect of the Coulomb repulsion. The results for the ratio of the energy gap to the critical temperature and for the temperature dependence of the energy gap, the electronic specific heat, and the critical field in terms of the proper reduced quantities were rather insensitive to the form or strength of the interaction. This indicates that the BCS theory gives the law of corresponding states. The calculated ratio of energy gap to critical temperature varies with the ratio of critical temperature to the Debye temperature, and this variation is of the correct order of magnitude if the Coulomb interaction is included. The same model is used to study the isotope effect. With the plausible assumption that the Coulomb cutoff is independent of the ionic mass, there are deviations from the M−½ law that are larger for small Tc/θD superconductors."
"The nuclear spin-lattice relaxation time, T1, in superconducting cadmium has been measured in the range of 0.37°K to 0.6°K. A field-cycling method was used. The results are explained by the theory of Bardeen, Cooper, and Schrieffer, and give another confirmation of the theory. The temperature dependence of T1 in cadmium is identical to that in aluminum, which is surprising in view of the different crystal symmetry and band structure of the two metals."
"The high thermal conductivity in the superconductive state at low reduced critical temperatures has been used for the detection of metal imperfections, including those caused by radiation damage. A statistically disordered single crystal of Ta with 30% Nb has also been investigated. Work is described on specific heats, ultrasonic attenuation and on the behaviour of thin superconductive films. An experiment for observing quantization of persistent currents is described."
"A calculation has been made of the transfer of heat across a metal-liquid helium interface. In the normal state an appreciable transfer of energy occurs directly from the conduction electrons to the phonons of the fluid. Three mechanisms have been considered: the phonon-electron interaction within the metal, the modulation of the position of the interface and the phonon-electron interaction of the electrons which have tunnelled into the helium. All appear to be important. In the superconducting state each of these becomes ineffective at temperatures appreciably below the transition temperature and, consequently, the heat flow is reduced. The effect is sensitive to band structure and to the anisotropy of the energy gap."
"Experiments on the tunneling of electrons through a thin dielectric layer separating two superconducting metals are reported. Data are presented for the pairs Al-Pb, Sn-Pb, and In-Sn. Particular attention is paid to the form of the tunneling current vs voltage characteristics and to the changes observed as a function of temperature. Experimental details relative to the measurement techniques, the preparation of the samples, and the preparation of the dielectric layers are presented. An analysis of the problem is presented which is based on the simple, one-dimensional model of the electron energy spectrum of a superconductor given by the theory of Bardeen, Cooper, and Schrieffer. Close quantitative agreement is obtained between the results of the calculations and the observed characteristics."
"A theoretical calculation is given of the magnetic field dependence of the superconducting energy gap, using the Ginzburg-Landau theory. In addition to depending upon the size of the specimen, the field dependence of the energy gap depends quite strongly on the nature of the boundary conditions. For the usual case with the magnetic field equal on opposite sides of a film, the calculations show that for a ratio of thickness, d, to penetration depth, λ, less than √5, the energy gap goes smoothly to zero as the critical field is approached—a second-order phase transition. When d/λ > √5, the energy gap approaches a finite value as the critical field is approached—a first-order phase transition. Energy-gap measurements for aluminum agree very well with these calculations. When one changes the boundary conditions so that the magnetic field is constrained to be zero on one side of the film, the theory predicts a very different behavior. For this case, at all thicknesses, the energy gap approaches a finite value as the critical field is approached—a first-order phase transition. An experiment involving cylindrical films is proposed to test this latter case. It is shown that in this proposed experiment these boundary conditions are appropriate for predicting the current dependence of the energy gap."
"A review is given of work concerning the decrease of the energy gap in superconductors when a magnetic field is applied. The absence of any observable effect in previous spectroscopic work is explained, and conditions for large effects are outlined. Experimental measurements on thermal conductivity and microwave absorption in films in a magnetic field are described. The results show that in thin films, the gap can be depressed continuously to zero, yielding a second-order phase transition. In thicker films, the gap can be only partially depressed before the transition, and the transition is of first order. These results agree with those obtained theoretically by Douglass from the Ginzburg-Landau-Gor'kov theory, and experimentally, by electron tunnelling. An attempt to generalize the Ginzburg-Landau-Gor'kov theory to cope with the case when ε0/kT ≫ 1 is then indicated. In this phenomenological theory, the normalized gap ε(H)/ε(0) is taken as an order parameter ω, and the free energy is assumed to contain a term in ξ02 |∇ω|2 , as well as a free energy density f(ω) and magnetic energy κ(ω)H2. Some success is found."
"Preliminary measurements have been made of the absorption of far-infrared radiation in the surface of a bulk superconducting alloy composed of lead with 10.0 atomic percent thallium at 1.4K. The results indicate that the gap edge is quite distinct, in contrast to previous results of Richards and Tinkham on other alloys. The sharpness of the gap edge is thought to be characteristic of alloys which are homogeneous and have no trapped magnetic flux. Alloying narrows the observed gap width by about the same ratio as the critical temperature, and by an amount which is much smaller than that predicted by Suhl and Matthias from a simplified model. The subsidiary absorption maximum below the gap edge, which has been seen previously in pure lead, is also present in the alloy. This lends support to other evidence that it is not due to crystalline anisotropy."
"A brief review is given of the ultrasonic attenuation in metals arising from direct interaction of the elastic waves and conduction electrons, and the physical variables on which it depends. The drop in attenuation of longitudinal waves on entering the superconducting state is in good agreement with BCS theory, the various factors combining to make the relative attenuation, αs/αn, depend only on the energy gap; the measurements give evidence, however, for gap anisotropy or the presence of more than one gap. Recent measurements at Brown by Claiborne of shear wave attenuation in single-crystal Al, are in good agreement with a theory based on the Boltzmann and London equations. The steep drop at Tc is produced by shorting out of electromagnetic waves by supercurrents; the residual attenuation results from the effects of collision drag."
"Abrikosov and the author have separately suggested that a new type of reversible magnetic behavior is to be expected in superconductors whose coherence length is small compared with their penetration depth. The treatments of these two authors are shown to lead to similar results for pure metals and to only slightly different results for alloys. The experimental evidence in favor of a new type of reversible magnetic behavior in superconductors is discussed."
"A brief review is given of the superconducting behaviour of solid-solution alloys. Intermetallic compounds are not considered but some reference is made to secondary solid solutions. Two topics are discussed: some factors affecting the transition temperature, and the role played by surface energy between normal and superconducting regions."
"Films of tin ranging from 500 to 1400 Å in thickness have been prepared in pairs by vacuum deposition onto rotating cylindrical glass and metal substrates. The temperature dependence of the critical fields has been measured. The critical temperatures of the films on metal substrates are all depressed. Their critical fields at absolute zero, however, are usually not depressed but can be higher than those of the corresponding films on glass. This increase can be explained by a negative surface energy arising from a short mean free path of the superconducting electrons in an incidental oxide layer at the surface of the metal. Most of the films on glass had an abnormally small value of the critical field at absolute zero."
"A microscopic theory of superconductivity of superimposed metallic films is proposed, based on the fact that the electron pair correlation function penetrates into a normal metal where the electron-electron interaction would not by itself produce a superconducting state."
"Comparison of the entropy and specific heats of normal and superconducting tin and indium as computed from critical field and calorimetric measurements shows excellent consistency. Salient features of the comparison are briefly summarized. Some implications of the recently reported specific heat anomaly for indium are discussed."
"A brief discussion is given of the analysis of recent critical field measurements. In particular, a negative volume coefficient of thermal expansion is predicted for tin in the superconducting state."
"Work in Zürich on the difference in size and in expansion coefficient between the normal and the superconducting states is summarized. The volume dependences of the critical temperature and of the electronic density of states at the Fermi surface are discussed."
"Using an ultrasonic technique capable of measuring changes in the elastic moduli as small as one part in 107, the small modulus changes associated with the normal-to-superconducting transition have been measured as a function of both temperature and magnetic field. Single-crystal specimens of the cubic metals Pb, V, Nb and Ta were used and all their elastic moduli measured so that changes in the bulk modulus and Debye θ could be computed. The results showed that changes in the zero-point energy of the lattice can be far from negligible. Furthermore, the shear moduli are the most changed by the appearance of superconductivity."
"The shift of critical field of a single-crystal wire under uniaxial tension is studied for Ta and Sn. For Ta the shift is nonlinear and gives both the first-order critical field-stress coefficient and a particular combination of second-order coefficients. By combining with other data, the three second-order constants are estimated. The smaller first-order coefficient of Sn is found to be considerably smaller than previous estimates. Both Ta and Sn are found to satisfy a similarity condition for the coefficients, but of a less restrictive form than usual. Similarity is used to predict the behavior of jumps in elastic constant moduli at the transition in Ta. The general formal theory of the first-and second-order coefficients is formulated and many special cases are given. The general thermodynamic relations at the transition between jumps in strain and elastic constants and the various coefficients, are derived. It is shown that BCS theory implies similarity."
"Thermal conductivities were measured for a series of polycrystalline alloys of indium containing 0.1 to 2.5 At.% mercury. Using theoretical models which relate the electronic thermal conductivity of a superconductor to its energy gap, the temperature and composition dependences of the energy gap have been calculated for these specimens. Estimates of the lattice thermal conduction were also obtained."
"The W-Os, Re-W, Re-Mo, Re-Hf, and Mo-Hf binary systems were investigated for superconductivity down to 1°K. Several new superconducting regions were found with the most significant occurring in the primary and terminal solid-solution alloys. The occurrence of superconductivity in the β-phase field of the Re-Hf and Mo-Hf binaries indicates a possible explanation for the spurious superconducting effects sometimes observed in elemental hafnium."
"Zero electrical resistance at unusually high magnetic field strengths has been observed in the bcc alloys Ti-16 a/o (atomic percent) Mo, Nb-12 a/o Zr, and Nb-25 a/o Zr. The maximum high-field zero-resistance current density, Jc, in these alloys appears to be a sensitive function of temperature, the degree of cold-working, and the orientation of the applied transverse magnetic field. For cold-rolled alloy specimens in an applied transverse field, Jc is a maximum or minimum, according to whether the field is set respectively parallel or perpendicular to the rolled face of the specimen. In Ti-16 a/o Mo the zero-resistance condition is observed in fields at least a factor 35 greater than the bulk material critical field as inferred from calorimetric data."
"The value of the critical current (Ic)-critical field (Hc) of cold-worked Nb, Mo-Re and Nb-Zr wires at constant temperature is not a single-valued function of the field and current direction. The previous history of a specimen during an experiment plays an important role and a measurement of the critical field-critical current value can influence the response of the specimen to subsequent measurements. Anomalous resistive transitions are observed when Ic vs Hc curves are determined by proceeding from low to high fields which may not occur in measurements proceeding from high to low fields. Further, it is possible to condition a specimen to enable it to reach maximum values of the critical field and critical current. This phenomenon is also encountered in the operation of superconducting solenoids. The polarity of the field and current during this treatment is found to be significant. The effects of the rate increase of the current, of rotating the specimen in a transverse field, and of current density and temperature have also been studied."
"A basic associative memory utilizing cryogenic circuitry is described and its functions are compared with those of previously published associative memory descriptions. The ordered-retrieval sorting algorithm is described, along with its implementation by means of a ternary interrogating counter. A sorting example is given. The sorting efficiency is discussed and an efficiency formula is given. The required additions to the basic memory are outlined. Finally, some of the basic cryotron circuits are illustrated and their operation described."
"This letter is motivated by a theorem of W. S. Dorn1 concerning the dual of a mini-convex program (i.e., a program whose minimal economic function is convex) under linear constraints. We prove this theorem for the more general case of convex nonlinear constraints"
"In permalloy films, for a given dc magnetic field in the hard direction, there exists a threshold field in the easy direction at which rapid motion of the domain walls suddenly begins. A plot of this critical field amplitude as a function of the hard-direction dc field is known as the critical curve for wall motion,1 and it is generally assumed that no wall motion takes place when the applied field vector is within this curve."
"Since the well-known DeMorgan theorem in two-valued logical systems may be considered as a special transformation theorem, we are interested in finding its counterpart in many-valued logical systems. Some basic concepts and theorems regarding the existence of duality and N-ality relationships due to transformations in many-valued logical systems are introduced in terms of isomorphism. On the basis of these concepts and theorems, a number of special transformation theorems involving some practical logical operations are developed. Several aspects of the generalization of the DeMorgan theorem to transformation theorems are presented. It is shown that biuniqueness, monotonicity and simplicity are three significant properties of transformations in many-valued logical systems. In terms of the concept of isomorphism, transformations even with composite ones including those of two or more variables such as from two variables to two variables may be studied rather conveniently. Functional relationships involving transformations may exist not only in duality, but also in N-ality, in many-valued logical systems. It can be seen that transformations are important in the study of equivalence, interrelations and conversions between logical functions or operations and are useful in both analysis and synthesis of logical systems."
"One engineering parameter of importance in the realization of threshold gate networks is the tolerance which must be placed on the coefficients and threshold: of the individual components. A previous paper gives a realization procedure which allows this tolerance to be controlled. The present paper gives an alternate realization procedure which also allows the tolerance to be controlled, but which is somewhat different in its application. The new procedure can be considered a generalization of an earlier procedure for the single-element realization problem. The function is first decomposed using a generalization of the function tree and then reconstructed using a generalization of the range theorem plus some additional simplification theorems."
"This paper consists of the following: recursive methods of generating self-dual threshold functions, a class of self-dual threshold functions which have interesting properties, a lower bound of the number of threshold functions, and a lower bound of a maximum weight. Any threshold function can be reduced from a self-dual threshold function by assigning 1 or 0 to some variable. In this paper, discussion is limited to self-dual threshold functions but it does not lose generality."
"A generalized model of automata is defined in which the outputs are sequences of letters (rather than single letters) for each input letter. The output sequences are transmitted without spacing, just as in the case of variable length codes. The paper describes a test for determining whether a given generalized automaton is information lossless, and if so, whether information lossless of finite order. (Decipherable with finite delay.) The codes generated by generalized automata are believed to be even harder to break than ordinary variable length codes. The techniques described in the present paper provide useful tools in the design of such coding procedures."
"This paper examines the problem of synthesizing a switching function using only majority gates. It is assumed that the switching function is given in truth-table form where any \"don't care\" input combinations have simply been omitted from the table. First, a theorem is derived which indicates those complemented variables and constants which must be added as additional columns of the truth-table in order that the function be realizable with only majority gates. Likewise, the same theorem permits unnecessary input variables to be eliminated. Next, the table is \"unitized\" by complementing those rows where F is to be O. Finally, a reduction theorem often permits many of the rows of this \"unitized\" table to be eliminated. Various synthesis procedures are described based on this reduced table. Two \"canonical\" realizations are shown which follow immediately from the table. A more comprehensive procedure for three-input gates is then described. Extensions of the methods to majority gates with more than three inputs and to multiple-output functions are discussed briefly. Examples are included."
"Let M be an incompletely specified sequential machine and Q be the set of internal states of M. We derive certain properties for classes of subsets of Q with particular emphasis on certain classes of compatible sets of states, subsequently called C-classes for M. We then briefly describe state minimization algorithms using these properties. The following types of theorems are proved: From an arbitrary incomplete machine M a machine M* is constructed which is transition complete, i.e., has a transition defined for every state and every input. Given a special type of partition of Q we construct from M a machine M' whose states correspond to the members of the partition. Relations between the C-classes of M and M' are given, and in particular, sufficient conditions are given for which the state minimization problems for M and M' are equivalent. Through the use of a class of sets of states \"generated\" by a given set of states of M, and a restricted type of compatibility relation between sets of states, certain sets of compatible states are shown not to be elements of any minimum C-class for M. Conditions are given on compatible sets S and S' of Q, where S' S/supseteq$S, such that if S is an element of a C-class Sigma for M, then (Sigma- {S}) $\\cup$ {S'} is a C-class for M. Using these results, which restrict the family of C-classes one needs to consider, algorithms are described for two state-minimization problems."
"A bounded-transient finite automaton is an automaton for which a single change of an input will not affect the output \"far away.\" This paper investigates the class of events which bounded-transient automata can compute and shows that this class of events is a generalization of the class of definite events. A method of determining whether or not a finite automaton is bounded-transient is described, and the connection between the results of this paper and Kilmer's results is indicated."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"The problem of synthesizing switching circuits which compute a given, completely-specified switching function is considered. A new point-of-view, in which switching circuits are considered to be realizations of algorithms rather than interpretations of truth-functional formulae, is adopted. A restricted class of algorithms, called the cascade algorithms, is identified and it is suggested that tree and collapsed-tree, iterative, multiple-iterative, sequential, and cascaded-sequential switching circuits may be viewed as realizations of cascade algorithms. Those circuits are called, therefore, cascade circuits. Three basic techniques, functional decomposition, merging, and skipping, which permit the synthesis of efficient cascade algorithms to compute a given function are described. It is then shown how those techniques may be applied so as to synthesize a collapsed-tree, iterative, multiple-iterative, sequential, or cascaded-sequential switching circuit which computes a given switching function. Examples are drawn from the technology of current-steering devices, such as relays and cryotrons, but the method is applicable to other technologies. The procedures appear to be well-adapted to execution on contemporary digital computers."
"Techniques are presented for making use of \"previous\" inputs and outputs in designing sequential circuits and iterative networks. Theorems are proved regarding the maximum reduction in feedback loops or carry leads which can be obtained by the use of such techniques. An algorithm for testing whether a given state table corresponds to a definite event results as a by-product of the more general techniques presented here."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Ways of using Regular Expressions in the synthesis of a minimal sequential circuit have previously been presented. These methods consist of first finding an unreduced sequential circuit corresponding to the set of Regular Expressions and then using standard reduction techniques to find a minimal circuit. A method of finding a sequential circuit directly from the Regular Expressions is presented here. The circuit found does not necessarily contain a minimum number of internal states; it is shinto, however, that the circuit can be encoded in terms of combinations of states of binary storage elements so that the operation is free of critical races and that the number of storage elements required will not be more than and will usually be less than that required if conventional synthesis techniques had been used. The synthesis procedure also allows the structure of the derived state diagram to be controlled. In particular, the flowchart is constructed in a form which allows the use of simple combinational circuits. A way of adapting the procedure so as to construct a circuit which corrects certain kinds of errors is also presented. The method is specifically developed for the design of asynchronous sequential circuits but can be simplified so as to be useful in the synthesis of synchronous circuits."
"There are synchronous sequential machines which cannot conveniently be described by the conventional models when one permits delays in the logical elements themselves. An algebra useful in the design of these circuits is due originally to Tryon and is detailed by the present author in (1). When the delays are taken into account, new temporal relations between states, inputs, and outputs appear. The input coincident with or nearest following a given state will be called the proximate input of that state. When the output can be expressed in terms of a state alone, the output coincident with or nearest following a given state will be called the proximate output of that state. The basic relationship between state, input, and output is then that the present state uniquely determines the proximate output and that the present state and the proximate input uniquely determine the next state. When the output depends on both the state and the input, the output coincident with or nearest following the proximate input of a given state will be called the proximate output of that state and input. In this case, the present state and the proximate input uniquely determine the proximate output and the next state. The paper presents the issues involved informally by means of examples."
"This paper presents a new approach to the problem of multi-level Boolean minimization. Conventional two-level minimization methods are embedded in a process that makes extensive use of the properties of incompletely specified functions. Particular attention is given to the problem of obtaining minimal sums-of-products-of-sums. Then the approach is extended to minimal expressions with more than three levels and to \"absolute\" minimal expressions. Several examples are worked out."
"Most of the published material concerning \"state minimization of incompletely specified machines\" has been concerned with finding an algorithm which yields a minimum state machine M' which satisfies [ER, p. 132] a given machine M. A fundamental theorem, in this connection, is given in [PU]. We are concerned here primarily with properties which some or all machines M' inherit from M."
"Several algorithms are presented, more or less directly related to the \"minimization\" theory of Boolean formulas. They give solutions to the following specific problems: computation of the sum of all the \"prime implicants\", starting with any \"normal\" formula; verification of the equivalence F a/ for \"normal\" formulas F; determination of some or all of the minimal F-including sets. The last problem is a two-fold generalization of the determination of the \"irredundant normal formulas\". More precisely if F, F1, F2,..., Fn are Boolean formulas such that F is included in (\"implies\") SigmaFi, a minimal F-including set is a collection of Fi such that their sum includes F, but no subcollection has the same property. Although these algorithms are of obvious practical importance, they are viewed here more as a theoretical contribution. Examples are included; the theory of Boolean formulas on which this paper is based is presented elsewhere."
"Several algorithms are presented, more or less directly related to the \"minimization\" theory of Boolean formulas. They give solutions to the following specific problems: computation of the sum of all the \"prime implicants\", starting with any \"normal\" formula; verification of the equivalence F a/ for \"normal\" formulas F; determination of some or all of the minimal F-including sets. The last problem is a two-fold generalization of the determination of the \"irredundant normal formulas\". More precisely if F, F1, F2,..., Fn are Boolean formulas such that F is included in (\"implies\") SigmaFi, a minimal F-including set is a collection of Fi such that their sum includes F, but no subcollection has the same property. Although these algorithms are of obvious practical importance, they are viewed here more as a theoretical contribution. Examples are included; the theory of Boolean formulas on which this paper is based is presented elsewhere."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"The determination of the minimal third-order expression of a Boolean function (sum of products of sums or product of sums of products of the variables) is pratically an un solved problem. In this paper a procedure is set forth for the determination of the mini mal sum of products of sums; this procedure, if applied also to the complementary of the function assigned, makes it possible to determine, by duality, the minimal product of sums of products, and consequently leads in the end to the determination of the minimal third-order expression. The procedure is based on the definition of ps maximal implicant. The importance of the definition lies in the fact that the addends of the minimal sum of products of sums are the minimal products of sums of some ps maximal implicants. Consequently the determination of the minimal sum of products of sums of an assigned function T is carried out in three successive stages: I) determination of the ps maximal implicants of T; II) elimination of some of the ps maximal implicants by comparison with sums of prime implicants including the former; III) selection of the uneliminable ps maximal implicants, so that the addends of the minimal sum of products of sums can be found out."
"This paper is an exposition of the theory of regular expressions and its applications to sequential circuits. The results of several authors are presented in a unified manner, pointing out the similarities and differences in the various treatments of the subject. Whenever possible, the terminology and notation of sequential circuit theory are used. The topics presented include: the relation of regular expressions to sequential circuits; algorithms for constructing sequential circuits and state diagrams corresponding to a given regular expression; methods for obtaining a regular expression from a state diagram of a sequential circuit, improper state diagrams, algebraic properties of regular expressions, and applications to codes."
"Many computer applications require a control structure which can be easily modified to achieve optimum processing time. A program-modifiable control unit of new design is described here."
"A large, extremely fast digital adder with sum selection and multiple-radix carry is described. Boolean expressions for the operation are included. The amount of hardware and the logical delay for a 100-bit ripple-carry adder and a carry-select adder are compared. The adder system described increases the speed of the addition process by reducing the carry-propagation time to the minimum commensurate with economical circuit design. The problem of carry-propagation delay is overcome by independently generating multiple-radix carries and using these carries to select between simultaneously generated sums. In this adder system, the addend and augend are divided into subaddend and subaugend sections that are added twice to produce two subsums. One addition is done with a carry digit forced into each section, and the other addition combines the operands without the forced carry digit. The selection of the correct, or true, subsum from each of the adder sections depends upon whether or not there actually is a carry into that adder section."
"Designs for load-sharing zero-noise core switches have been proposed by Constantine, Marcus, and Chien. Blachman class has proposed a core memory wiring plan which with modification can be converted to a load-sharing zero-noise switch. An examination of these switch plans shows that they have a common relationship to a class of mathematical structures known to mathematicians and statisticians as balanced incomplete block designs. This relationship is formulated, and it is then shown that all balanced incomplete block designs lead to load-sharing zero-noise switches. Three methods of forming the winding matrix for a switch are given, and expressions for the load-sharing factor, set bias, and reset bias in terms of the balanced incomplete block design parameters are derived for each switch type. Similarly, partially balanced incomplete block designs are shown to lead to low-noise load-sharing switches. Switch operation under fault conditions is briefly discussed. Most of the known load-sharing core switch types can be viewed as based on either balanced or partially balanced incomplete block designs. A review of the available block designs indicates that a number of new switches can be based on these designs. A modification of a distributed memory model proposed by C. Rosen is discussed. With wiring plans based on block designs, it appears possible to construct very-large-capacity memory units which are relatively insensitive to wiring errors."
"A number of the more commonly known magnetic core access switches are combined in a single analytical model. In addition to yielding as special cases the known access switches on which it is based, this model produces many apparently new switches. Relationships among the various parameters in this model are developed in such a way that the designer may choose the number of drivers, the load-sharing factor, the number of turns of wire per switch core and the magnitude of the maximum disturbing magnetomotive force within certain limits. Several methods are developed for economizing on the number of drivers used in switches, and certain special access switches are treated. The current knowledge is reviewed on a fairly recent and important class of access switches, known as load-sharing zero-noise switches. These switches are compared with one another, and a fundamental theorem is proved that such switches can have no more outputs than inputs. Several new classes of load-sharing zero-noise switches are developed and analyzed; in particular, switches are developed which allow more flexibility in the choice of the load-sharing factor than formerly was the case."
"A noiseless matrix switch is a selection switch in which, for a given set of inputs, one corresponding output (the selected output) is nonzero while all other outputs are zero; the switch is load-sharing with efficiency one if all nonzero inputs contribute to the selected output with the same sign. This paper develops a general theory of noiseless load-sharing matrix switches, from which many new switches can be derived. Considerable design flexibility is thereby provided, with respect to the number of inputs, the types of input drivers, and the winding ratios. As an example, previous results (Chien) indicate that 20 inputs are required for a certain type of 16-output switch. The present re-results show that only 17 inputs are required."
"The consideration of the transistor as a charge-controlled device as proposed by Beaufoy and Sparkes has proved to be a useful way, both conceptually and analytically, to view the transistor. In this paper the charge-control theory is applied to a number of problems of interest to switching circuit designers. The charge-control theory is briefly reviewed to provide a foundation for the problems considered. The theory is then applied to describe in detail the ``on-demand current gain'' ßs and its effect on circuit design. The basic equations developed for switching times are applied to an RCTL circuit and equations for rise, storage and fall times are developed. The effect of stray capacitance on switching times is developed in a particularly simple and unique way."
"Now that standard Transistor Resistor Logic is well understood and widely used, the possibilities for reducing component count by changing the height of the switching threshold, as measured in units of input, are being explored. This paper presents the worst case design formulation, both steady-state and transient, for such variable-threshold circuitry. In addition there is a brief discussion of the logic represented. Numerical results illustrate the logical possibilities and the effect of increasing the threshold on transient behavior."
"An examination of the properties of a pulse transmission matrix for a storage system is given in detail. An attempt is made to arrive at design criteria for a practical system. It appears that microstrip techniques afford an economic approach to the problem and that technically, impedances of the order of 50 ohms will present optimum over-all performance. Use of conductors of about 1 mm in width and electroformed earth shields separated by about 2 mm, will result in an access time less than 6 mμ sec and a total physical size of less than a meter cube."
"Design factors and operational features of a multiaperture ferrite memory core are discussed showing how a low coercive force, low switching coefficient material may be used for a high-speed coincident current storage device. The formulation, geometry, and important processing variables are given and a method of handling large numbers of asymmetrical cores for electrical test is described. Electromagnetic characteristics, pulse drive and bias test conditions are given. Data is presented showing the effect on core responses of varying net drive, pulse duration, half select drive and temperature. This device represents about a four-fold speed increase in comparison with present coincident current toroids."
"It is shown that a previous version of the n-tuple pattern recognition method can be made more effective by making certain changes in the learning phase. A means of further increasing readability through judicious choice of n-tuples is described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"This chapter contains sections titled: Title, Copyright, Preface, Table of Contents"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Representation of List Structure, Construction of List Structure, Property Lists, List Structure Operators, The Free-Storage List and the Garbage Collector"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Preparing a Card Deck, Tracing, Error Diagnostics, The cons Counter and errorset"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Reading and Printing Numbers, Arithmetic Functions and Predicates, Programming with Arithmetic, The Array Feature"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Functional Arguments, Logical Connectives, Predicates and Truth in LISP"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Variables, Constants, Functions, Machine Language Functions, Special Forms, Programming for the Interpreter"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Symbolic Expressions, Elementary Functions, List Notation, The LISP Meta-language, Syntactic Summary, A Universal LISP Function"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"A description of synchronous inductor motor operation is given, and various characteristics are explained through a qualitative general torque equation derived in the Appendix. Performance curves as an alternating synchronous and an ON-OFF servomotor are given. In addition, operation of the motor as a digital stepper motor is described and performance shown. Its use in telemetering systems is indicated."
"IN THE LAST few years, the use of computer control systems has expanded greatly. They have grown from simple data logging applications to enormous systems with hundreds of inputs and outputs. The result has been that the system designer must contend with myriads of complex interrelationships when he is preparing a system design and specifying it properly to the computer manufacturer. It is axiomatic that as system complexity increases, the requirement for accuracy in certain portions of the system demands increasing attention. Unfortunately, the accuracy of a complicated system is neither easily defined nor understood. As a result, accuracy requirements are often ambiguously or incompletely stated. This has led to variations in the interpretation of accuracy requirements and a resulting confusion on the part of both the user and the manufacturer."
"IN THE PAST few decades, most of us have designed and installed numerous electrical systems employing steel conduit for the raceways. For the construction and maintenance of a complete rod, bar and cable mill, the authors used approximately 20 carloads of steel conduit within the last ten years."
"DURING THE PAST several years there has been a trend toward the use of highly accurate speed controllers. Digital systems using a crystal oscillator reference have incorporated counter circuitry for error integration. The steady-state accuracy of these systems approaches that of their highly accurate reference. Unfortunately, these systems are considerably more complicated and expensive than the analog systems which they replace."
"SILICON SOLAR CELLS have been a good source of power for satellites and space probes. Their applicability for future vehicles with larger electric loads seems to be limited by cost and weight. For example, 1 × 2-centimeter (cm) silicon solar cells in the 10 to 13% efficiency range cost about $10 each, or about $350,000 per kw. Conventional panels containing silicon solar cells weigh in the order of 100 pounds per kw."
"TWISTS AND TURNS of the “cold war” have directed attention to our polar regions as never before. Scientific curiosity has accompanied this attention, requiring our society to make accessible these frozen regions. Experience of the past decade in establishing large northern outposts - Thule, Greenland, for instance - has been conclusive: The most economical mode of transporting impedimenta to these wastes, for both military and technical personnel, is by sea routes. Sustained air-freight support is prohibitive for any long-range effort at the present stage of fossil fuel use in aircraft."
"The design of multivariable control systems utilizing matrix formulation has been considered by many writers. Problems of ultimate physical realizability and the effects of interaction are not conveniently considered by most of these methods. This paper describes the application of the root locus method to the problem of designing realizable interacting linear control systems. The application is not practical to systems of unlimited complexity. However, where the design specifications control system transient interactions rather than require noninteraction, the loci method provides a systematic application of familiar techniques to the design procedure."
"SURVEYING THE MANY tools of the trade for servomechanism analysis, it is obvious, as in reference 1, that graphical and graphical-numerical methods predominate, while algebraic methods — methods which follow the problem from start to finish in algebraic form — are notable by their absence. The stability factor method is one which fills this vacancy. At least in the case of typical fluid servomechanisms, it yields simple, general, and previously unrecognized equations for both analysis and synthesis, rendering graphical analysis frequently unnecessary."
"IT IS THE PURPOSE of this paper to suggest the possibility and to consider some of the initial analyses and results of determining certain servo motor steady-state and transient characteristics by impulse testing. If the method can be successfully applied to servo motors, it appears to be reasonable that many other servo and control components could be adequately tested by this technique."
"A mathematical analysis is presented here which shows how the action of a flexible alternator shaft is significant in the production of voltage modulation (VM) in aircraft power systems. The analysis discloses a phenomenon in which VM and frequency modulation (FM) are sustained in an electric power system even though no external disturbances exist, and the respective basic closed-loop control is stable. The modulation is the result of the interaction of electrical load, flexible shaft, and the basic voltage-regulating system. In addition, the implication of the flexible shaft is shown in an analysis of forced VM due to various torque-type disturbances."
"LARGER THAN 1-KVA static inverters are beginning to receive widespread application as converters of direct current to precision 3-phase alternating current. This paper pertains to same, and Appendix I presents a specification typical of aero-space requirements.1"
"CONSIDERATIONS GIVEN the complex electric equipment requirements of advanced weapon systems, being developed by North American Aviation, Inc. (NAA), Los Angeles Division, and an evaluation of available relay designs concluded: The reliability and environmental limitations of presently available relay designs are not acceptable.1,2 In arriving at this conclusion, NAA evaluated new materials, fabrication procedures and techniques, and various designs and switching devices.3,4 Subsequently, a decision was made to underwrite the design, development, and manufacture of a minimum-weight minimum-volume high-performance 4-pole double-throw \"true\" a-c coil relay. Contrary to the skepticism exhibited and recommendations made by many of the experts in the relay industry prior to this NAA decision, no change was made in the relay design requirement: \"The coil circuit shall not utilize rectifiers or other auxiliary components, and shall be capable of continuous operation.\""
"Advancements in design and performance of hypersonic aircraft have in recent years promoted increasing activity in the development of high-temperature insulating materials for air-borne electric power systems. Many applications of these material developments to electric apparatus have been reported to the AIEE and some of them have been recorded in Transactions.1,2,3,4"
"MANY PAPERS have been written about redundant circuits in which components can undergo either open-circuit or short-circuit failure. John von Newmann studied the problem in connection with abstract automata.1 Shannon and Moore showed that any given reliability could be achieved by using redundancy, however, as the reliability approaches 1, the number of parts involved approaches infinity.2 Other papers have been written that derive the formulas for mean time to failure and/or reliability for series-parallel and parallel-series type arrangements, that is, for n items in series and m such arrangements of n items in parallel, or n items in parallel and n such arrangements of n items in series.3,4 In applications to either ground-based equipment or microminiaturized parts such analysis is sufficient. However, there is not a true optimization until all circuits are considered. In systems with tight size, weight, and power requirements, all circuits must be considered. This paper discusses all circuits containing four components or less. Graphs are presented showing the circuit's optimizing reliability for any component reliability distribution. Then the exponential distribution is assumed, and the circuits maximizing the expected life are found. In both these optimization procedures, there will be optimal circuits which are not of the parallel-series or series-parallel type."
"The electric system of a satellite is usually designed around a storage battery. Operating in a low-temperature environment, the battery is maintained by a constant low-level energy source, yet it must deliver intermittent high loads, its life must be long and trouble-free, and its bulk and weight must be at a minimum. Current literature offers little quantitative information on which the selection of such a battery can be based. Consequently, when a battery was to be applied to a certain satellite in 1958, a special study was carried out to determine what electrical capacity would be needed, and how battery efficiency and life would be affected by a low-voltage nuclear-thermal-electric generator stepped up to about 30 volts by a d-c to d-c converter. At the time, the efficiency at very low charge currents was estimated as anywhere from zero to, at the best, 10%. This paper reports on the investigation which sought answers to these questions."
"The demand for automatic checkout of complex air-borne equipment has become a major item in ground-support equipment, and as a result, many basic equipments have been developed and built for this purpose. The concept of the basic equipment is to produce a component capable of testing any present-day or proposed future electronic system. To do this the test apparatus is divided into two parts; one which is generally referred to as the automatic checkout equipment, and one which is usually called an adapter. The automatic checkout equipment for this application uses a binary coded digital program which is read from a tape and which establishes all the major functions of the test equipment. In this instance the basic unit, that is, the automatic checkout equipment, has the capability of reading four basic parameters: frequency, time, voltage, and resistance. These four functional capabilities establish the criteria for the operation of the adapter which must interrogate the air-borne electrical system and present an analog signal in terms of one of the functional categories."
"The describing function for a nonlinear element is evaluated from the nonlinear characteristic without going to the output waveform, and is shown to be a fraction of a certain area obtained by a simple graphical construction. The method is applicable to all nonlinearities. Phase shift, if any, is also determined in terms of areas. A template is suggested to speed up the graphical procedure. Simple as it is, the method presented is believed to be novel."
"Many engineers solve algebraic equations in a search for the roots of characteristic equations. Excluding very special analog computers, the three ways open in this direction are: paper-and-pencil computation; graphical root-locus technique; and the general-purpose digital computer. Unfortunately, there is a widespread misconception that hand computation requires approximate methods for any polynomial higher than the second order. This paper suggests a scheme for solution of algebraic equations up to the ninth order."
"A definition of noninteraction for a class of closed-loop multivariable control systems based on a small error matrix and high loop gains is proposed. It is shown that strong cross-coupling of the open-loop system is often necessary to realize the high gains. Methods of design based on single-variable methods are developed and numerous examples discussed."
"This paper contains a brief description of the original 125-kv Somastic-coated pipe cable system of the Florida Power Corporation, and the additions to that pipe cable system. The graphite anode-rectifier type of cathodic protection system originally installed, and the deep ground bed-rectifier addition are discussed. Operation of the pipe cables is tied in with the type of cathodic protection installation selected. In one area, both pipe cables and 12-kv lead-sheath cables are being protected by a common rectifier. The operation of this deep ground bed on the pipe cable and lead-sheathed cables is explained. Mention is also made of damage made by shellfish to a 12-kv submarine cable crossing."
"A new procedure is developed for sketching the phase plane trajectories of second-order systems. This procedure is based on some extensions of Liapunov's second method of stability analysis, and allows these trajectories to be sketched with only a small amount of work."
"A criterion function involving time integral of absolute deviations is considered. There are three critical regions in the time behavior of the desired function, r(t), and optimal policies are derived and discussed depending on the behavior of r(t) with respect to these three regions. An algorithm of shifting the origin to appropriate points in the time axis and restarting the process is provided, by which optimal control policies can be constructed successively in the forward direction of time."
"An iterative technique is introduced which can be used to design on the digital computer a linear control system satisfying a set of performance specifications such as overshoot, peak time, settling time, velocity constant, bandwidth, etc., and incorporate a plant with a specified transfer function. The design is flexible in the number and nature of constraints used. It is nearly completely mechanical, demanding only one rough initial estimate from the designer."
"A knowledge of electric equipment reliability is required in the economic design of power distribution systems. An AIEE sponsored survey was undertaken in 1959 to collect reliability data in industrial plants. Responses were received from 33 companies, covering 85 plants in 5 industries. Survey results on 27 equipment items are shown in 46 tables. For each industry and for all data received, these show average failure rates by cause, and average down time per failure."
"Matrix methods are used to extend well-known concepts in single-variable systems to the case of systems with several inputs and outputs. The analysis of such multivariable systems, when subjected to deterministic and/or random inputs, is considered in the time and frequency domains."
"An adaptive control system is analyzed in order to investigate system behavior. The system consists of a model system in parallel with a system whose parameters are adjusted or dithered sinus-oidally. The difference in output (error) of the two systems is squared and used as a performance criterion in optimizing the parameters of the adjusted system. It is shown that the deviation from the optimum parameter value is a linear function of the component of error squared at the dither frequency if initial error is not too large. If the initial error is large, the deviation may be independent of error squared in which case the system will not adapt."
"A new graphical method for feedback control system compensation design yields the parameters of simple compensators which will place a closed-loop pole at a designated location in the 5-plane with arbitrary open-loop gain. The gain limits for compensators with single or multiple identical sections are easily determined by this method, which is simple, easy to apply, fast, and accurate. Examples are given to illustrate its utility."
"A mathematical model of the polyphase induction motor is developed, using nonproprietary data available from the manufacturer. Input impedance and output torque are expressed as tabular functions of speed, with voltage as a parameter. These functions are derived from current-dependent relationships, however, and include saturation effects. Examples illustrate use of the model in machine computation of simultaneous motor reacceleration after supply-system disturbances. An ancillary computation of rotor bar heating during starting is also illustrated."
"A new control system for locomotives and motor coaches which combines the features of the well-known safety or dead-man control with automatic supervision of the vigilance of the engineer is described. It is very effective, and considerably increases the safety of railroad operation. It can be installed on any kind of traction vehicle, and can be combined with other safety and protective devices."
"The key indexes of thermostat performance in electric heating systems are explained. Response, offset, cycle time, and droop are introduced, as are basic methods for their measurement in field and laboratory. Correlation of field and laboratory tests is outlined, and brief mention is made of the NEMA (National Electrical Manufacturers Association) test box. Modern thermostat components, such as snap-action switches and shunt and series anticipators, are described, and two fundamental methods of modulation are introduced."
"In addition to normal considerations for shipboard electric plants, the design for nuclear-powered merchant vessels is based on the need for an uninterrupted source of power. The installation of main, auxiliary, and emergency generating plants, the utilization of automatic devices for generator synchronizing and power source transfer, as well as the application of special interior communications and alarm systems, unique to nuclear-powered vessels, effectively eliminate the probability of complete power loss on the N.S. Savannah."
"An analysis of the problems of matching the performance of a high-temperature plasma-thermionic static-energy conversion device to a heat source consisting of the combustion products of chemical fuels is presented. The thermodynamic relationships governing the efficiency and power densities of the thermionic converter as a function of cathode temperature and work function are established and the limitations imposed by positive ion space charge neutralization are pointed out. The temperature and heat flux limits set by the heat source are compared to the converter requirements and various matching problems are discussed."
"A method is given for stability analysis of a rapidly adapting model-reference system. The instantaneous value of the difference between model output and system output is used to adjust system gain. With proper compensating circuits in the adaptive controller, an error in plant gain is corrected in a time interval which is much less than the rise time of the system. The system performs equally well with square-wave, triangular, or sinusoidal inputs."
"A logical and systematic method of generating Liapunov functions for determining stability of nonlinear autonomous systems is introduced. The method is based upon the assumption of a variable gradient function from which both V and V may be determined. The n-un-known elements of each of the n-components of the variable gradient are determined from constraints on V and n(n‾1)/2 generalized curl equations. The type of V-functions produced include those involving higher order terms, one or more integrals, and terms with more than two state variables as factors. Nontrivial examples of the above cases are included."
"THE PHENOMENON of subharmonic oscillations in nonlinear systems has been studied for a long time in the technical field because of the undesirable influence it has on the operation of, e.g., magnetic devices. But works devoted to their occurrence in nonlinear servomechanisms, such as the work by J. West and J. Douce1 for the particular case of third-order nonlinearity, are not numerous. In this paper a contribution to the study of subharmonic oscillations in on-off control systems is presented."
"The optimization of linear multivariable systems often leads to simultaneous Wiener-Hopf equations. In this paper a new method is developed for solving equations of this type. Unlike previous techniques it gives an explicit solution without requiring the spectral factorization of matrices. Examples are given to illustrate applications to control and filtering problems."
"DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY development over the past 20 years has opened the way to vast new areas of industrial uses. The number of such uses, already large, is growing at accelerated rates as the potential of these techniques gains wider recognition. Application to a precision speed regulating system is described herein."
"A study of the voltage control loop and the speed control loop of a diesel-engine-driven alternator has been made, with special attention to the interactions between these loops. Laboratory tests, using both step and sinusoidal disturbances, were made and used as checks on an analog simulation of this system. These studies showed that loop interaction was small. The analog simulation should be useful for other purposes, such as the study of interconnected units and synthesis of improved systems."
"This paper presents a procedure for identifying a linear lumped-parameter time-invariant (at least during the measurement period) single-input single-output system from its response to a step excitation."
"Several methods of calculating short-circuit currents are compared in an effort to arrive at a relatively simple and satisfactory longhand method. Several shipboard tests are reviewed and their results used to evaluate the recommended system."
"A new digital computer program for calculating freight train performance (speed, distance traveled, running time, energy consumption, etc.) eliminates certain limitations inherent in manual calculations and in digital computer programs based on the manual method. Results are more accurate, especially for long freight trains. In this new program, provision has been made for speed restrictions that apply to the entire train, not only to head-end. Preparation and use of time-power charts for deriving the minimum running times of trains are analyzed."
"Sampled-data control systems for linear multivariable plants subjected to disturbing signals are considered. The regulator problem (rejection of effects of disturbing signals in the outputs without taking into consideration command-output transfer functions) is treated first. Then the servo problem (rejection of disturbances and realization of a desired over-all transfer function) is treated as an extension of the regulator problem. It is shown that one of the conditions for obtaining total rejection of the disturbing signals leads to a diagonalization of the disturbance transmission matrix. Then the multivariable problem is reduced to a certain number of single-variable problems. Although any of the well-known techniques used in the design of single-variable control problems can be extended to solve those problems, only an extension of the optimum design through digital compensation is presented in this paper."
"A digital adaptive control is introduced to maintain an optimal transient response in a minimum integral square sense without any perturbation required. The principal features of the control are discussed, and an analysis of some of the principal error sources is presented."
"This paper gives experimental and calculated speed-torque-current curves for a slip-ring induction motor with an automatically controlled secondary impedance to obtain stepless starting with low current, high sustained torque, and low full-load slip. A saturable reactor in the secondary circuit is supplied with a control current from a direct-connected exciter on the motor shaft. Since the control current is proportional to speed, the secondary reactance varies smoothly from a high value at starting to a low value at full speed."
"The many static, magnetic voltage controllers reported in the literature are shown to be combinations of four basic saturable reactor and saturable transformer connections. It is found that the replacement of series-connected saturable reactors by pairs of back-to-back connected silicon-controlled rectifiers is feasible in some control applications, thus providing opportunities for more compact, more economical drives with faster transient response. Several new controllers of wide voltage range are described."
"The problem of linearizing the over-all response of a device with a nonlinear gain characteristic (mainly of the saturation type) is solved by using nonlinear feedback. The nonlinear curve is approximated by an exponential which has the advantage of matching the over-all response for two conditions. To the extent that the actual gain is exactly equal to a portion of an exponential curve, the device can, theoretically, be linearized exactly over any given range extending up to saturation for any finite gain. Deviation from linearity caused by approximating the required nonlinear feedback function as a result of physical or practical considerations is investigated. Stability requirements are developed. Extensions to duodirectional devices and general systems with one nonlinear forward gain are discussed."
"A procedure is developed for obtaining the transfer function of a linear system from the frequency-response data in terms of its poles and zeros. The method is based upon the fact that the transfer function is an analytic function of the complex variable s at all points in the s plane except the isolated points which are the poles of the function. Hence if the function is specified along the jω axis, it is possible to extend the function in the left-half or right-half s plane by means of conformai mapping techniques. The curvilinear squares in the G(s) plane corresponding to a grid of constant σ and constant ω lines in the s plane can be constructed with fair accuracy after a little practice. The particular values of σ and ω, for which the lines pass through the origin of the s plane, can thus be determined by locating the zeros of the transfer function. The poles are similarly obtained by working with the inverse function. Since there are several values of s satisfying G(s) = 0, the mapping from the s plane to the G(s) plane is not entirely a one-to-one mapping, and several regions in the s plane are mapped on to the same region in the G(s) plane. A method is suggested to overcome this difficulty and to obtain, step-by-step, all the zeros and poles of the transfer function corresponding to the given frequency-response locus. The method is illustrated by means of three numerical examples."
"In a-c servomechanisms tandem compensation is effected by the use of a-c notch-type networks, which operate on the modulating envelope by virtue of being resonant at, and sufficiently symmetrical around, the carrier frequency. However, if carrier frequency drifts away from the notch, the two sidebands of suppressed-carrier-modulated signal around it are no longer symmetrical. The adverse effects of such drifts have been analyzed by a number of authors. This problem is of great importance in air-borne installations where closely regulated carrier-frequency supply would increase the weight, cost, space, and complexity of the equipment. It would be most economical to design a network which would provide satisfactory compensation for a predetermined carrier drift."
"Application and tests on a silicon power rectifier installed on an existing multiple-unit passenger car in place of the original ignitron rectifier permitted evaluation of silicon rectifiers in traction propulsion power service and proved their feasibility in actual field operation. Both static tests and actual service tests showed that the equipment was satisfactory for extended field testing, which was begun in April 1961 and is continuing."
"A method to obtain the voltage regulation of 6-phase and 12-phase double-way transformer rectifiers is presented. After determining the generator load power factor due to the transformer rectifier, a means of finding the generator voltage regulation is described. The algebraic sum of these two voltage regulations is then the voltage regulation of the power supply with suddenly applied load."
"Basic principles of thermionic emission, ion generation and plasma properties are used to examine a model of the vapor-filled thermionic plasma energy converter. The model divides the converter's interelectrode space into plasma, emitter, and collector sheath regions. At least seven main equations evolve from consideration of these three regions, namely, current, charge, plasma ion, plasma energy, and voltage balance equations. Repeated solutions of these equations at various load currents yield the current-voltage characteristic curve. A generalized efficiency expression is also presented."
"TYPE I SYSTEMS are defined as systems that give optimum time response (i.e., that reduce system error and its derivatives to zero in minimum time) by using maximum control effort. The number of torque reversals was shown by Bogner1 to be (n -1) for nth-order systems whose characteristic roots are all real and distinct and whose initial conditions are on the switching surface. The switching criterion that gives optimum system response is found to be unique. The plant or controlled system will be assumed to be described by a linear differential equation and, therefore, outside of a nonlinear-controller element, linear theory is fully applicable. Systems which operate on this principle are, sometimes, called piece-wise linear systems. The name is derived from the fact that the error behavior (Appendix) can still be described by a linear differential equation from one switching time to the next if the driving force is completely known. Phase-plane and phase-space concepts will be used throughout the analysis. This paper will be devoted to the optimization method of second- and third-order systems which gives best system response for stationary-class systems as well as for quasi-stationary-class systems, and a good response for properly restricted nonstationary-type systems (Appendix)."
"FOR OPTIMUM \"bang-bang\" or relaytype control systems of order higher than the second, there is the practical mechanization problem of requiring high-order function generators in realizing the system. For example, for t h e thirdorder system it appears that a function generator is required whose output is a function of two variables. Such a function generator is fairly complicated and expensive. One way of tempering this difficulty has been suggested by Preston and this amounts to an approximation technique.1 This paper presents another technique which does not require an approximation to be made and which uses only single-variable function generators. This may be viewed as a step in t h e direction toward the practical realization of optimum nonlinear control systems of third or higher order of t h e stationary or quasi-stationary types."
"A general procedure for investigating stability of many sorts of dynamic systems is the second method of Lyapunov, which uses only the form of equations describing the system, without requiring explicit knowledge of their solutions. Its application to a given system requires determination of a special Lyapunov function which, for a stable system, is itself positive but has a negative time-derivative. This function also may yield certain information regarding the transient response. Discussion of the basic principle of the method is given, along with illustrative applications to a few simple cases."
"A TASK frequently arising in design work is realization of a transfer function of the form"
"A systematic design procedure has been developed for noninteracting control of multivariable systems. Unlike previously proposed design techniques, which are mostly based on closed-loop complex-frequency transfer functions, the method described here is based on open-loop real-frequency Bode diagrams — with the advantage that considerations of control specifications, physical realizability, and stability can be included in a simple and straightforward manner. Such simplicity in design is essential for noninteracting control for large realistic systems where digital computational aid is indispensable."
"A reliable analytical method of new design of shading coil magnets is described. In the magnets of new design, with equal shaded and unshaded pole-face areas, the fluxes of the shaded and unshaded poles are made equal in magnitude with substantially sinusoidal time variation. The phase angle between the two fluxes can be made to exceed 80 degrees so that the minimum of the variable holding force is more than 70% of its maximum value."
"THE MAGNETIC FORCE of attraction on the armature of a shading coil magnet varies at double the frequency of the impressed voltage. A chattering noise begins when an externally applied force, tending to pull the armature away, increases to the point where it is about equal to the minimum value of the variable magnetic force. The main purpose of this paper is to develop a simple method of design that will make the minimum value of the variable magnetic force as large as possible, for a given magnet."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of the high-speed digital computer is causing a revision of rather rigidly held concepts. For instance, it is possible to simulate completely an analog computer1 on a large-scale digital computer and achieve not only an increase in solution accuracy, but an improvement in solution speed. On the very large machines, also, one may increase the problem size beyond that possible in most analog facilities, and still retain analog computer programming ease."
"A new type of self-adaptive system has been developed in which parameters of the proportional-integral-differential (PID) controller are so selected that the controller may compensate the process dynamics, which is measured automatically and continuously. In this way, the total system dynamics is always near the ideal, even if the process dynamics changes in an unexpected way."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to report the electrical characteristics of electrochemical cell lines, partly based on tests made on various types and ratings of cell lines, so that there will be a clearer understanding in the application of electric equipment. It includes a brief description of different types of cells, their start-up procedures, and mode of operation, as well some guides in the application of electric equipment (particularly semiconductor rectifiers) to cell lines. The appendixes list the recommended testing procedures to be used in any investigation of new cell lines so that the data will be comparable to those reported in this paper."
"A study has been made of a refractory metal-anode mercury-pool switch tube for transferring energy from capacitor banks to experimental apparatus for producing electron-ion plasma, pulsed magnetic fields and other applications. One of the special-purpose applications for these tubes is transferring stored energy from capacitor banks to experimental thermonuclear-fusion devices. In this application the tube must hold off 104 to 105 volts, carry peak currents of the order of 104 to 106 amperes, and have low inductance to allow for fast current rise. Since many of the L-C (inductance capacitance) circuits are not critically damped, the anode of the tube becomes alternately a cathode. The use of tubes in these circuits presents a new duty cycle for ignitrons, and often the conventional ignitron fails to have adequate life of several thousand operations."
"A design concept is presented which, under certain conditions, improves the efficiency of thermionic generators. The proposed concept envisages the application of a magnetic field perpendicular to the electrode surface. This applied field counteracts the adverse effect of the self-induced transverse magnetic fields present in large thermionic generators. In addition, the applied magnetic field may be used as a modulating device in order to generate an alternating current."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"THE LUNAR mapping satellite will be performing its mission approximately 210,000 nautical miles away from the nearest human control. In this environment, control from the earth becomes limited and tenuous, due both to the extended range, and to the differences in reference systems."
"The measurement of power by a-c to d-c transducers requires that the operations of multiplication and integration be performed. A new transducer has been worked out in which multiplication is obtained by sum and difference squaring and integration plus averaging by use of capacitors and d-c instruments. This transducer is especially adapted to the measurement of power on circuits up to 13.2 kv line-to-line by use of hook-on current transformers."
"Probe coils are useful in determining the properties of metals on which the coil is placed. An analysis and an equivalent circuit of the coil on a metal surface are needed and are presented here. The coil was assumed to have a ferromagnetic core, and the constants of the equivalent circuit were computed from the analysis. Experimental measurements of a probe coil on a metal surface, and with varying frequency and conductivity, were made to verify the theory."
"Direct subscriber-to-subscriber teleprinter connections to cities throughout the United States of America, Canada, Mexico, and other parts of the world are made in a few seconds by newly installed automatic Telex exchanges. After dialing the subscriber number, an automatic answerback sequence is received from the distant teleprinter which identifies the called subscriber, even at unattended stations. This paper describes the service, exchange systems, and over-all operation of Western Union's U. S. Telex Network."
"As a first step in the investigation of communications networks with automatic alternate routing, a computer simulation has been prepared which is capable of being applied to a large class of networks. The simulator has been used to examine the behavior of networks under normal and abnormal conditions of load. Several criteria are introduced and used to evaluate the relative performance of different networks, leading to conclusions regarding the merits of certain alternate routing procedures."
"Graph theory offers a false and misleading model for an electric network, a tearable orthogonal structure possessing branches only, and no nodes or planes. The unnecessary introduction of nodes and an avalanche of meaningless matrices is a smoke screen to hide the use of tensors, whose appearance is imperative and inescapable. During their analysis, graph theorists must always necessarily return by some legerdemain to the correct tensorial branch theory, which however is camouflaged with a misfit graph terminology."
"THE PROBLEM of magnetic recording has been approached in several ways in the published literature.1‾7 However, none of these works has considered in detail the nonlinearity of the magnetic properties of the coating and the implications of this nonlinearity in recording. Thus, some of the work has been based on oversimplifications of the actual problem, making precise and accurate conclusions unlikely. For instance, under the common simplifying assumption that the medium has a relative permeability of unity (or any other constant value) it is easy to lose sight of the following facts:"
"The requirements for a high-power transistor application are summarized as the ability to handle high current with reasonable gain and high voltage without instability, to operate with low internal dissipation, to remove heat effectively, and to withstand substantial transient surges. It is shown that the latest alloyed silicon power transistors are designed and fabricated by utilizing the physical principles such as conductivity modulation, control of carrier multiplication, wrap-around junction, hard soldering, and other features to fulfill the requirements. These techniques further permit the extension of the intrinsic limits of stresses which are closely related to the reliability of a power device."
"A composite circuit having an N-type or current-stable characteristic is described. It consists, in its simplest form, of a tunnel diode, a transistor, and one resistor and exhibits results unobtainable from either device alone. The combination is capable of the very-high-speed triggering of the tunnel diode and, yet, has the much higher operating voltage level of the transistor. A mathematical and graphical analysis is made of the basic circuit and the effects of various modifications are studied. Experimental results and several practical applications are given."
"The term, superpower, is not a misnomer for a new family of grid-controlled amplifier tubes developed to meet increasing demands for higher uhf (ultrahigh-frequency) power output. These tubes, which are capable of producing megawatts of pulse power output and hundreds of kilowatts of average power output, are particularly well suited to applications such as long- and short-pulse long-range search radars and missile-tracking radars, particle-accelerator power sources, broadband radars, space-probe and satellite radars, satellite communications, and r-f (radio-frequency) power sources for special-process and heating applications."
"The physical properties pertaining to the remagnetization of square-loop ferromagnetics are reviewed, and comparisons between characteristics obtained experimentally and those predicted by several models of the flux reversal, are drawn. The nonuniformity of domain walls is inferred as a predominant feature of the remagnetization process. New, generalized core parameters are developed, these being essentially \"charge control parameters\" directly derived from the \"flux-charge\" characteristics of the material at the fixed time of the irreversible portion of remagnetization. These parameters characterize dynamic behavior of the core in conjunction with the operation of magnetic amplifiers."
"Total weight of reset toroidal-core pulse transformers is derived here in terms of core area and core length. A digital computer is used to find minimum weight over a range from 1 to 400 lb (pounds); pulse power up to 50 mw (megawatts); secondary voltage up to 200 kv; and pulse durations from 0.1 to 1,000 μsec (microseconds). A design chart is given to find minimum weight. A typical transformer represents 23% of the weight of a conventional cut-core design."
"Grid-controlled high-vacuum tubes can be used advantageously to generate the pulse modulation of large radars and particle accelerators. Factors considered in designing high-power tubes which will meet the exacting requirements of switch-tube service are discussed as are structural details of a superpower beam-forming shielded-grid triode. Included are such features as the unit-cathode design and special processing, beam-forming structures, high-dissipation plate, high-conductivity seals, and special high-voltage considerations which make this tube superior in pulse-modulator service. Other types of superpower tubes and their adaptability to switch-tube service, as well as future trends in very-high-power switch-tube designs, also are considered."
"Results are given of subjective tests designed to determine the importance of random interference in various portions of the video band for monochrome and color pictures. Weighting functions are derived enabling random interference to be measured so that equal measured magnitudes correspond rather uniquely to equal interfering effects, regardless of the frequency composition of the random-type interference affecting the received picture. The monochrome results update information presented approximately 9 years ago. The color results are new.*"
"Historically, one of the more important operations in the manufacture of equipment in terms of both cost and reliability is the assembly operation, the mounting of components and making the necessary electrical connections."
"The extension of dialing, ringing, and supervision ranges in a voice-frequency telephone circuit is achieved by a unit which requires no local ringing generator and has self-contained power supply. Two extension circuits and the necessary power supply, which has an alarm in case of failure, are mounted on a portable plug-in unit."
"Selective operation of party-line digital communications circuits is discussed, and a requirement for selective control to be divorced from teleprinters is developed. A solid-state (transistorized) selector, which is capable of operating with any class of equipment and is not dependent on teleprinters for its operation, is described in detail. This selector is capable of operating at speeds up to 10,000 words per minute, and is flexible with regard to code format and control arrangement. It has wide application in various types of service."
"The conical-scanning (con-scan) technique for automatic antenna control generates a double-side-band suppressed carrier (DSSC) signal, which must retain its absolute side-band-carrier phase and amplitude relationship for proper antenna operation. Definite passbands must be allowed in order to permit frequencies in the neighborhood of the nutation, or periodic movement, rate to pass through the system, unmodified by circuit characteristics. Signal-strength variations can cause serious deterioration of the tracking capabilities of the con-scan antenna, and total loss of track is not uncommon."
"An a-c voltmeter has been developed to indicate directly the percentage difference between an unknown voltage and the settings of the instrument dials. It is accurate to 0.05% from 5 cps (cycles per second) to 10 kc within the voltage range from 1 to 700 volts. Two 10-ma (milliampere) thermoelements are used; one in series with an a-c decade resistor, and the other energized from a constant-voltage d-c source, a Zener diode. A built-in galvanometer, calibrated in % of input voltage, indicates the difference between the two thermocouple-output emfs (electromotive forces), and has a resolution of more than 0.01%. The instrument was designed for rapidly calibrating other voltmeters, but it can be used also for a-c-d-c difference measurements - frequency response tests - to 0.02%."
"A problem of dual sensing is postulated wherein a reactor power level is monitored with two unlike sensing devices - a slow sensor, and a fast sensor that is subject to error due to drift. An error channel, designed to combine the outputs of the two sensors so as to eliminate the undesirable characteristics of each and yield a combined output more satisfactory than that realizable from either sensor operating alone, is studied both analytically and experimentally."
"This paper considers the problems of the oceanographer in obtaining space in the electromagnetic spectrum for long-range radio telemetry. Among possible methods proposed is that of radio interrogation of buoys and the “squirt” transmission of data in the high-frequency range. Problems of interference with existing missile ranges are discussed. It is suggested that very high frequency and ultrahigh frequency may be used with the assistance of high flying aircraft for the interrogation and acquisition of data from far-flung buoy systems. The system is projected toward the ultimate use with satellites, particularly those of the COURIER type."
"This paper describes a high-gain phase-sensitive magnetic amplifier,1,2 which simultaneously possesses the high-gain property of the self-saturating (100% positive feedback) amplifiers and the limited circulating current property of the low-gain zero feedback amplifiers. These features are obtained by using feedback windings to obtain the self-saturating large-gain property. However, these windings are arranged so that the feedback is positive only when load currents flow, and is zero when circulating currents flow. The circuit is analyzed and its various modes of operation are described. The theory is verified with numerous experimental results."
"The current comparator is a stable, sensitive, and reliable magnetic device, which may be used for a-c ratio measurements of high accuracy. The sources of error in such a device are discussed, and methods are proposed for minimizing their effect. The design of a 2,000-amp (ampere) feed-through current comparator based on these investigations is described, and test results are given which indicate that its over-all accuracy at 60 cps (cycles per second) is better than 0.2 ppm (part per million) for all ratios from 1:1 to 400:1, irrespective of distribution of the primary winding."
"The definition of ground resistance and ground impedance in the case of alternating currents is discussed. Ground resistance measurements with earth testers are compared with power frequency methods and the errors associated with the location of auxiliary grounds are described. It is emphasized that the ultimate purpose of testing station grounds is to determine touch voltages and potentials arising on communication circuits. Methods are presented to evaluate the adequacy of station grounds, including very large stations."
"A LARGE BODY of literature deals with charged particles and the influence of electric fields on such particles. This paper presents new observations in which conducting spherical bodies themselves cause electrification by moving over the surface of a dielectric; and which, if of proper size range, display interesting static and dynamic effects. Also described are a number of new phenomena in which spheres of magnetic material of appropriate size range, when influenced by an alternating magnetic field, do strange, unexpected, and often very fascinating things, depending on whether or not they are magnetized; and sometimes depending on the presence of electrification."
"Many techniques have been developed for finding minimal sums and minimal products for Boolean functions. In all of these techniques, it is necessary to use either all of the fundamental products which must be included in the function and all of the unspecified fundamental products (𠇍on't cares”) or all of the fundamental products which must not be included in the function and all of the unspecified fundamental products. There is a class of problems which can be specified very simply, but in practice cannot be solved using existing techniques. This class consists of those problems for which almost all of the fundamental products are unspecified. These problems can be described by specifying the fundamental products to be included in the function, the 1-terms, and the fundamental products to be excluded from the function, the 0-terms."
"Incoherent scattering is discussed in the context of the phenomenon of scattering of radio waves by spatial fluctuations in electron density. A review is given of both theoretical and experimental results. Emphasis is placed on the ideas involved in measuring properties of the upper ionosphere, such as the electron density, temperature, electron drifts, and the strength and direction of the magnetic field."
"Preparation each month of customers' telephone bills, and processing the bills after payment, are tremendous jobs. A new billing and collection procedure has been developed which combines a standard punched-card accounting system with recently developed teletypewriter and optical scanning equipment. This extended mechanization, now in operation, has made possible more efficient methods and has effected substantial savings. It can be adapted to other machine billing systems."
"A method is presented for connecting an information source emitting data at an arbitrarily fluctuating rate to a synchronous transmission system. Expressions are derived relating the fluctuating input data rate and the maximum transmission efficiency to the capacity of a buffer store necessary to establish this connection."
"The demand for more and better communications facilities has been an anticipated product of our population and economic growth. Means for extending and improving these facilities in the telephone industry, e.g., nationwide dialing, higher capacity carrier systems, negative-impedance repeaters, data transmission systems, have necessitated adoption of more stringent transmission objectives which affect all levels of service to varying degrees.1,2"
"A study of error control by coding was made by Monte-Carlo simulation of a burst-noise channel on an IBM (International Business Machines) 7090. Using short group codes, comparisons were made between correction and detection with retransmission. Also, the effect of interleaving the code words was studied. Error detection with retransmission showed a consistently better performance than error correction and the time division resulting from interleaving was effective in combating burst type error patterns."
"Two methods of measuring impulse noise on telephone lines are set forth in this paper. One of these methods also records the occurrence and duration of dropouts. The latter method provides a means of identifying the cause of errors during the transmisson of digital data."
"Test instrumentation has been developed for simulating the principal types of transmission impairments that will be encountered on voice-frequency telephone circuits. Such impairments include delay and attenuation distortion, frequency shift, phase and amplitude hits, interfering tones, and noise. This test equipment, together with conventional random-data signal generators and error comparators, makes possible the evaluation of data systems with a wide range of transmission characteristics."
"The capability of simultaneous 2-way transmission over the direct distance dialing (DDD) network will allow data systems to provide more efficient error detection and correction, system control, and circuit assurance schemes. This capability is made available by the development of a tone disabler which will inhibit the suppression function of any echo suppressors in the connection upon command of a conditioning tone and allow normal operation on voice transmission. This paper describes the engineering design and operational features of the tone disabler."
"The post war expansion pattern of the telephone industry has created a substantial demand for carrier equipment suitable for exchange trunk connections. There is an increasing demand for these office-to-office connections in extended area service (EAS). It has been the cost rather than technical feasibility that has discouraged extensive use of carrier equipment in the exchange plant. However, if a carrier system is available at a price competitive with cable cost, the demand will support the sort of manufacturing volume that is associated with mass production techniques. It has been the primary design target of the 81-A carrier system to prove-in economically at distances as short as 2 to 3 miles, and thus a substantial market potential is insured."
"A block diagram of the 81-A 24-channel exchange carrier system shown in Fig. 1 indicates the basic system parameters. It is designed for a maximum length of 15 miles and powered by the 48-volt office battery. The frequency allocation is shown in Fig. 2."
"This paper describes the unique time-division-multiplex supervisory and signaling system employed in the 81-A Exchange Trunk Carrier, the general features of which are covered in a companion paper by M. E. Ferguson and M. C. Harp in this issue. In the design of carrier systems, a problem requiring almost as much effort as that of the transmission of conversations is that of the transmission of signaling information. In fact, considering the wealth of options and varieties of signaling encountered in exchange carrier service, one laboratory wag has described exchange carrier equipment as \"a collection of signaling gear with incidental talking channels.\" And, indeed, in exchange carrier design, the variety of signaling requirements encountered is almost without end."
"Continuing programs of service improvement by the telephone operating companies have sharply increased the demand for telephone circuits in recent years. For the long-haul applications, carrier systems have been used extensively to satiate this demand. However, for short trunks of 15 miles or less, circuit expansion has almost exclusively been obtained by the expansion of the cable plant. Since a major portion of the requirements for new short-haul circuits exists in the large metropolitan areas, the installation of new cable is often difficult as a result of conduit congestion."
"This tutorial paper describes a procedure for designing a network that simulates the image impedance of a loaded cable. The problem is reduced to one of synthesizing three 2-terminal impedances, two at one frequency and the third at three frequencies. In general, the return loss performance of the network against the facility is greater than 30 db (decibels) over the frequency range from 0.006 to six times the cutoff frequency, and is greater than 40 db over most of the transmitted band. With the aid of artificial cable and a loading coil, such networks can be used to simulate both the transmission and impedance characteristics of any type of loaded cable facility having any fractional length of end section."
"Important considerations in the design of a microwave system are power output from the transmitter, the antenna size, the distance from a terminal to the repeater, the path obstruction clearance, and the value of noise that will be permissible. The heart of this entire system lies in the method of interconnecting the radio equipment at the repeater site. The interconnection described in this paper was accomplished by back-to-back hybrid transformers rather than costly drop insert equipment."
"During the past half century, the services provided by public power utilities have changed from desirable luxuries to absolute necessities. Electric power, water, and petroleum products are transported over long distances to satisfy widespread consumer requirements with a high degree of dependability. It is this very dependability which has made the occurrence of rare, but unavoidable, outages all the more serious. Rapid detection and location of the fault can minimize the loss and hazards."
"Gadgetry, all too often, has intrigued the application engineer. In his desire to try something new, he loses sight of his primary objective, which is to provide adequate communication in the most economical arrangement. It has been said that an engineer “is a man who can do with one dollar anything that any competent tinker could do with ten.”"
"The conventional approach to coding for error correction is often impractical because of the required equipment complexity and the system vulnerability to changes in channel conditions, such as fading or burst-type noise. These problems can be solved by employing long codes with feedback, correcting only small numbers of errors, and utilizing appropriate feedback techniques. The resulting system yields essentially error-free performance under all conditions, is relatively efficient, and compares very favorably in cost."
"The model of a communication channel used in the study of binary codes, its relation to real data transmission channels, and assumptions about noise, will be reviewed briefly. Several error-correcting codes will be listed with a brief description of their error-correcting capabilities and feasibility of their implementation."
"The engineering of a data system for use on the switched message network is reviewed. First, the conditions imposed by this specific application are shown to influence the selection of signal characteristics, and the choice of raised-cosine pulse shaping is given support by a brief treatment of some pulse transmission fundamentals. Finally, the results of a field trial are summarized to show that, while the system objectives were met, factors such as delay distortion, attenuation distortion, and transmission loss limited the performance obtained."
"The statistical decision model of a communication channel is used to discuss a variety of signal modulation techniques intended to overcome the problems met in the use of voice-bandwidth channels for high-performance digital data transmission. The importance of proper transmission of timing and word-start information is emphasized. The equivalence of various modulation schemes to selection from an alphabet of signal waveforms is pointed out; also that, in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise, the performance of such simple-waveform systems as AM (amplitude modulation), phase reversal, and FSK (frequency shift keying) is the same to within a few db (decibels). Implications of the fact that the channel noise is not Gaussian, but impulsive in character, are briefly explored."
"An old communications tool is put to new use by combining it with new concepts in propagation. Using simple, proven binary detection methods - such as frequency shift keying - substantial range improvement is shown over multichannel FM (frequency-modulated) or SSB (single-side-band) tropospheric scatter schemes, at the sacrifice of analog capability. Alternatively, over shorter distances, substantial reduction in equipment complexity can be achieved over other modes. Measurements made on a feasibility circuit of 150 miles using very simple equipment has shown the practicality of this concept."
"The development and construction of a visual voice-frequency transmission-measuring set is described, and a short summary of its applications is included. The instrument provides for the display of measurements of level, impedance, return loss, impedance comparison and level comparison on the face of a CRT (cathode-ray tube) as a function of frequency. The values in db (decibels) or ohms are read directly from a calibrated graticle. The instrument described is the latest of a series whose initial development was begun in 1941."
"With the advent of transistors and similar solid-state components, an investigation was undertaken at Lenkurt to determine whether printed or etched circuit boards were practical for telephone-type multichannel carrier equipment. This study resulted in development of the manufacturing process here described. It permits automatic or semiautomatic fabrication, maintains excellent standards of reliability in the finished product, and offers a degree of repair-ability comparable to more conventional wiring."
"End electrical and pressure losses are calculated for d-c magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) power generators, accelerators, or induction pumps having a geometry of a rectangular parallelopiped with the electric field, magnetic field, and fluid flow mutually perpendicular. For an MHD generator, having a cubic geometry, the maximum conversion efficiency is only 29%. This can be improved by increasing the length of the generator, inserting vanes, and extending the magnetic field, so that efficiencies of 90% should be attainable."
"Techniques here presented for the analysis of linear, time-variable systems through signal flow graph concepts are based on the combinatorial properties of linear differential equations. The concepts of stability and sensitivity of linear, time-variable systems, which are described by linear differential equations, are discussed. A linear, time-variable feedback system is analyzed to aid in clarification."
"For the characteristic equation an sn+an‾1 sn‾1+... +a2 s2+ξs+η=0 the relations between the coefficients ξ and η and the values ζωn and ωn2 are derived. The computer based on these relations may be used for plotting the characteristic curves used in the graphical analysis and synthesis of linear feedback control systems, for determination of roots of algebraic equations with real coefficients, and for plotting of root-locus for an arbitrary parameter."
"The objective of this paper is to reduce the concept of a digital computer program to an analogous sampled-data control system, which can then be studied and analyzed by established theories and simulated on an analog computer. In this connection, the convergence and the rate of convergence of various programs are established by observing the stability and the transient response on an analog computer."
"In the application of Boolean algebra to switching circuits,1,3 one of the areas of interest is that of reduction of the functions to their simplest normal form. Quine, in formulating the special problem of simplification, proposed a method of determining what he called “prime implicants,” and a method of selecting from the prime implicants the “simplest normal equivalents of a formula.𠇔 One of the requirements of this method is that the function first be expressed in �veloped normal form” (standard sum of products or canonical form), each product of the function containing all of the letters of the function. Quine's later method eliminates this requirement.5"
"Cineradiography of the human body has long provided valuable diagnostic information, not otherwise obtainable, in cases where motion of anatomical structures is involved. This method is particularly valuable in detecting functional or structural abnormalities in the heart organ, and also in examining the larynx, gastro-intestinal tract, joints, and other moving parts."
"The detection of coronary-artery disease continues to be perhaps the most pressing problem in medicine, because of the incidence of morbidity and mortality resulting from this condition. It is estimated that during the year 1959, at least 4 million new cases of heart disease will be discovered, and there will be some 500,000 deaths from this disease.1"
"One of the greatest challenges existing today in the field of radiology is the development of equipment and techniques which will permit an accurate diagnosis and at the same time assure that the patient is subjected to the minimum radiation theoretically needed to accomplish that diagnosis. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the present knowledge concerning what constitutes the minimum dosage and the means available either now or in the not too distant future to produce a diagnostic image utilizing this minimum dosage."
"This paper is intended as a review and appraisal of various existing methods of finding singular points (maxima, minima, or saddle points) in functions of many variables. It is limited to methods involving a search procedure rather than a formal analytical technique. These methods are useful whenever an optimum condition is required of a system too complex for conventional analytical techniques."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"RESEARCH IN JAPAN on electronic telephone switching techniques has made remarkable progress since the close of World War II. Among numerous trial models built are the α-type electronic switching system developed at Electrical Communication Laboratories of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation, announced in December 1955,1-3 and the parametron-type semielectronic switching system, publicized in December 1956 by two of the authors of this paper. Developmental research has continued on the latter system as well as on electronic devices to be used in this field."
"The volume of message signals at various points in the telephone network is of utmost importance to those who design and engineer telephone systems and equipment, and ultimately, of course, to the listener. This volume is influenced not only by the speech pressure produced by the talker and his habits in using the telephone set, but also the characteristics of the set, the battery supply and loop resistance, and the electrical loss, or gain between the set and the point at which knowledge of the level is desired."
"THE NATION-WIDE telephone network is essentially composed of three distinct types or groups of facilities. Each is engineered and maintained on a different basis. Each, however, must be designed, engineered, and maintained in such a manner that when they are combined they will provide dependable and economical communication between all customers, regardless of their location."
"Transmission measurements usually are made by the relatively slow point-by-point method. Swept-frequency techniques are quicker, but may interfere with the transmission system's normal operation. A Spectrum Generator is described which simultaneously supplies a number of uniformly spaced test tones within the carrier facilities' frequency range. A manually tuned or sweeping selective detector, used as a receiver, will yield the system's transmission characteristics. By this method, the speed of the swept-frequency method is attained without its disadvantages."
"The development of electronic devices with long, reliable, lifetime capabilities offers a variety of trunking interconnections for telephone switching systems. These include, in addition to the simulation of mechanical contacts, time division transmission, hitherto impractical, made possible by their high speed nature. A time division system reduces costs and space requirements while approaching the trunking simplicity of a manual system with high-speed single control operation simplifying the inclusion of new services."
"COMMUNICATION cables of the multipair type (19-22-24-26-gage conductors) in which the individual wires are insulated with polyethylene were introduced into the Bell System plant a decade or more ago. Use of such cables increased gradually. In 1956 about 5 billion conductor feet (bcf) were installed. During 1960 over 50 bcf were installed."
"Typically, simultaneous Boolean equations are expressed by a set of relations Fi = fi, i = 1,2..., where the Fi and fi are switching functions of N binary variables. In many logical design problems, a special type of Boolean equation is often encountered; namely, F(A0, A1 ..., An‾1, X0, X1 ..., Xm‾1) = f(a1, a2 ..., ak, X0, X1 ..., Xm‾1), in which the arguments Ai's and Xi's are binary variables and the a1's are implicit functions of the Ai's only. This paper presents a somewhat new approach to solving such special types of Boolean functional equations. The solution function (see reference 1) can be formulated and mapped on a Veitch chart, especially tailored to the present problem, and all possible sets of solutions of the implicit functions ai's which satisfy the original functional equation are obtained simultaneously. Other possible applications and extensions of this method are discussed also."
"A THERMIONIC CONVERTER is, in the thermodynamic sense, a heat engine that receives heat at a high temperature, rejects heat at a lower temperature, and delivers electric power. Detailed analyses of thermionic converters have been given in the past by many authors.1‾5 The present paper deals with the effect of staging on the efficiency of thermionic engines, that is, the effect of operating several thermionic stages thermally connected in series between two heat reservoirs at given temperatures."
"THE QUALITY or noise performance of a complete multiplex voice point-to-point communication system is usually specified, following telephone transmission practice, by the allowable noise power per voice channel not to exceed certain percentile of time at a point of zero relative level (0 dbm [decibels referred to 1 milliwatt] at the sending toll switchboard)."
"TO OBTAIN appreciable power from electron beams at millimeter or sub-millimeter wavelengths, it is necessary to employ devices that allow high power transfer per unit volume between the electrons and the circuit fields. This requirement results from the usual scaling laws that apply to the dimensions of devices as the wavelength is decreased. Unless very-high-energy electrons are used, the dimensions of the interaction region where the energy interchange takes place must be small in terms of the wavelength, and the power transferred per unit volume becomes of fundamental importance."
"A modified limiting nonlinear representation of the magnetic characteristic of saturating ferromagnetic materials is employed in conjunction with the Maxwell field equations in the analysis of various types of problems that arise for time-varying magnetization processes of solid steel structures. The B-H relationship of the material is expressed by the broken-line representation: B = + Bk + μH, H>0; B = - Bk + μH, H<0; - Bk≤B≤ + Bk, H = 0. (Bk and μ are constants; their choice may depend on the range of values of the field intensity arising in the specific problem.)"
"THE WIDE-BAND transformer is usually represented in its high- and low-end frequency response ranges by two appropriate collections of lumped-parameter network elements. The aggregate of of these network elements then constitutes low-pass and high-pass filters, respectively, and these filters may be synthesized or analyzed by standard filter techniques. The low-pass filter presents the greatest problem; it is not easy to choose from many possible equivalent circuits the one which is sufficiently complex to represent the physical transformer with reasonable accuracy and yet which is sufficiently simple to permit a tractable analysis or synthesis."
"It is possible to obtain delays of finite duration time functions by sampling in the frequency domain. The method is applicable when the delay time is greater than the waveform duration. The method is particularly amenable to analog computer techniques, and no special equipment is required. The holding feature of these machines makes it possible to delay functions several minutes. A clear-cut error analysis can be made to ensure economical use of the equipment for the degree of accuracy required."
"A new type of flux-gate element employing an ordinary toroidal core without air-gap has been developed. By using tape-wound or laminated nickel-iron-alloy ring cores \" ID-OD (inside diameter-outside diameter) ratio in the range from 0.85 to 0.98; mean diameter 0.5 to 1.5 in. (inches), or less \" with semicircularly wound and differentially connected second-harmonic detector windings, a sensitivity of 1,000 microamperes per oersted or 1 volt per oersted can be achieved. The possibility of utilizing such cores as field-sensitive elements in second-harmonic flux-gate magnetometers and gradiometers is revealed. Although the a-c excitation windings may be supplied either from a rotating machine or from a vacuum-tube oscillator, a preferred method is to combine the flux-gate element with a switching-transistor magnetic-coupled multivibrator in such a way that the oscillation frequency is solely determined by the parameters of the ring core and its excitation windings. Various circuit configurations and different techniques are described for extracting the second-harmonic or total-even-harmonic output information from ring-core flux-gate elements \" including the use of such elements in self-balancing flux-gate magnetometers and gradiometers."
"THE NEED for the accurate measurement of a-c quantities, that is, for current, voltage, and power, has been steadily increasing, Moreover, since power supplies at frequencies up to 2,500 cycles per second (cps) have been coming into use it has become necessary to measure these higher frequencies accurately. Pointer instruments with accuracies of 0.2%, or in some cases 0.1%, of full scale are available, but with a limited range of application. Consequently, more accurate measuring equipment has become necessary, not only for national standardizing laboratories where various types of equipment have long been in existence and are continuously being developed and improved, but also for industrial requirements both in research laboratories, in the instrument manufacturer's laboratories, and in industrial standardizing labhratories, if only to check and to calibrate portable instruments."
"The process of correlation detection is briefly reviewed and the properties of binary codes are stated for the purpose of utilizing these codes as a quasiorthogonal multiplexing function. The maximal linear code is shown to exhibit the best properties, particularly those generated by a Mersenne prime. The relationship between system bandwidth and code length is derived."
"A description is given of the new Line Concentrator No. 1A, covering its features, the new magnetically latching crossbar switches and relays, the switching networks, and the method of operation. This equipment will serve 50 or 100 lines over ten or 20 trunks, with two control pairs in either case, and can be used in almost any type of central office The working limits, field of use, administration, maintenance, and economics are discussed."
"In a recent data transmission test, a method for visually evaluating the causes of errors was tried. Photographic reproductions of error messages were produced by the combined use of a magnetic tape recorder and a recording oscillograph. These were analyzed visually and the errors classified by cause into eight categories. In several of these categories, the fault lies in the terminal equipment, in the rest, apparently in the transmission channel. Examples are given of various types of errors encountered."
"THE LOS ANGELES AREA has had a tremendous population increase in a very short period of time. With the additional population, industry and housing projects increased. There has also been a greater decentralization than ever before. Consequently, this has put great demands on the telephone companies to supply initial service and to cope with changing types of service demanded by major customers. The growth of population and the greater use of the telephone by customers required more traffic circuits between offices, while the decentralization of industry demands more private line circuits carrying speech and data. Short-haul carrier systems of the N- or ON-type introduced into the Bell System have been employed to provide some relief. This paper describes a development, introduced by the Los Angeles Engineering Department of the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company, affording the N and ON equipment greater flexibility. This has now been adopted throughout the entire Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company."
"A data transmission system has been designed which uses vestigial sideband, suppressed carrier, and amplitude modulation (AM). Carrier recovery and synchronous detection are performed in the receiver."
"A low-speed data transmission system that permits communication from machine to machine over the telephone network is described. This data set, as part of the general DATA-PHONE service, provides economical data transmission well-suited to data collection of relatively short messages from many transmitters to a single receiver. It transmits alphabetic and numeric characters, asynchronously, using parallel multifrequency signaling techniques. The system has been field tested over a wide variety of telephone facilities with very satisfactory results."
"Long distance customer dialing imposes an increase in the preventive maintenance to safeguard transmission quality. The resulting need to minimize manpower requirements and its direct influence on the design concepts of transmission test equipment are reviewed. Specific examples are given of equipment that simplify existing standard tests, reduce local exchange testing to a one-man operation, and eliminate the necessity of sending testing personnel to remote offices."
"One set of optimum signal waveforms for unidirectional transmission with minimum error probability, when the interference is additive gaussian noise, consists of sequencies of binary waveforms resembling a modified Reed Code. The binary waveforms considered here are phase-shifted sinusoids. The theoretical design of the receiver is given such that the reference signal required for correlation detection is directly generated from the message signal itself. Thus multipath and doppler are automatically compensated for."
"The demand for relatively-long exchange trunk circuits has created a need for a carrier system suitable for this specialized function. A basic requirement for such a system is that it may be operated over existing exchange trunk cables. This paper discusses the results of tests conducted to determine the range of attenuation, crosstalk coupling loss, and noise liable to be encountered on existing cables. It also shows how the observed values were used in the design of the NX-1 Exchange Trunk Carrier System."
"The author discusses observations made during a 1960 sabbatical leave-of-absence spent in nine countries of central and western Europe, followed by a month's service as safety consultant at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, New Mexico, studying problems of electric shock and electrical safety. This paper presents a varied assortment of current problems including safety grounding, grounding versus bonding, relative hazard of 120-versus 240-volt a-c systems, and double insulation for appliances and hand tools. It deplores the lack of electrical safety in both laboratories and schools of electrical engineering, and concludes with the recent development of differential circuit breakers. The new miniature circuit breaker is considered a major breakthrough in electrical safety for low-voltage utilization circuits for both the home and industry."
"A voltage divider standard (VDS) is described, which combines high accuracy and stability with built-in calibration convenience features. Compensation is provided for bridge unbalance due to connection resistances. Adjustable zero offset permits the measurement of differences on the divider slidewire to the closest 0.1 ppm (parts per million) by the null balance method. A basic method of calibration, which eliminates external standards of comparison, provides an accuracy which is limited only by the errors involved in making the measurements."
"A computer system that will produce input data for an automatic wire wrap machine is an important extension of the automatic backboard wiring system. The essential task of the extended system is to translate data already present in the backboard wiring files into codes which are acceptable to the machine. The Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Division of Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company has in operation a set of computer programs to accomplish this task."
"Co-ordinate use of d-c analyzers and transductors increases the efficiency of analyzers. By using the symmetrical component technique, phase currents and voltages in the branches of the network under test can be indicated directly. This is done by using a combination of transductors as a summation instrument. Furthermore, it is possible to solve simple stability problems on the d-c analyzer by using the step-by-step method of calculation."
"The advance of heart surgery has been closely coupled to developments in external blood flow devices. The state of the art had reached au apparent plateau in the 1930's when Dr. Laurence O'Shaughnessy, a renowned cardiovascular surgeon, reported that .“ the real key to further advance in the surgical treatment of established cardiac defects will be provided by the provision of some simple and efficient method of maintaining cerebral (brain) circulation while the heart is temporarily out of commission.” 1 There has been a tremendous effort exerted in the past decade, and particularly in the past five years toward the solution of the problem as stated by Dr. O'Shaughnessy.2,3 However, substitute systems for temporarily replacing the heart and lung functions involve far more than a conventional fluid pump and a simple aerator. Details of a heart-lung bypass system co-operatively developed by the National Heart Institute and the Instrument Engineering and Development Branch of the National Institute of Health are described. The system has been used in over 250 operations."
"Close examination of traditional copper-clad low-loss materials revealed serious electrical shortcomings which precluded their use in certain critical printed microwave applications. To overcome these shortcomings, a new class of copper-clad low-loss polyolefins was developed. These polyolefin systems were characterized and found to be satisfactory for critical microwave applications while offering certain cost, weight, and design advantages."
"SINCE BLOIS' ORIGINAL publication1 on the magnetic properties of oriented evaporated thin permalloy films, much work has been carried out1‾7 in view of the potential application of such films in digital switching and storage. Mostly restricted to the nonmagneto-strictive composition of nickel-iron alloys (permalloy 80-20), these films are generally prepared by vacuum deposition onto a heated substrate. A uniaxial direction of easy magnetization may be induced, and, if the film thickness is sufficiently small, it behaves as a single domain,6 and may be switched by rotation from one remanent state to the other."
"Impulse and direct voltage calibrations are presented for 2-cm (centimeter)-and 6.25-cm-diameter sphere gaps, and the calibrations for a 1-mg (milligram) radium pellet inside the top sphere are compared with those for ultraviolet irradiation. The rate of production of electrons in the gap was measured for both irradiation sources with an electrometer amplifier. Impulse sparkover voltages are consistent when plotted as a function of electron production rate, but there are appreciable differences between 1 1/2×40- and 1×50-microsecond wave calibrations."
"Frequency spectrum conservation and the prevention of interference among 6-gigacycle (gc) microwave systems are shown to be possible when a modified TH system frequency plan is used. Characteristics of the microwave transmitters and receivers used with this plan are discussed. Efficient duplexing of radio-frequency (r-f) equipment uses 3-port circulators and dual polarized antennas. Precautions in the use of these devices are illustrated."
"Data sets employing phase modulation (PM) techniques are described. A brief description of the operation of the set follows: Pairs of serial binary digits, called dibits, are encoded by the transmitter to generate line signal elements conveying information by means of relative shifts of the carrier-frequency phase angle. This relative phase shift allows the use of differentially coherent detection in the receiver. In-phase and quadrature components of the received line signal are delayed for a period of time corresponding to one signal element and are then modulated with the incoming signal to produce baseband data signals. Bit synchronization timing circuits in the receiver continuously recover a timing wave from the line signal. The operation of this circuit does not depend on message content and is not affected by carrier shift."
"Modern communications systems must meet increasingly stringent performance and reliability requirements. Microwave radio systems must provide a high degree of protection against equipment and propagation failures. This paper is concerned with equipment and propagation protection arrangements of a recently completed microwave radio system, and discusses in detail equipment which provides protection on the same frequency as the working system."
"AN AREA of real and immediate interest lies in the transmission of newspaper and magazine proof pages to remote printing plants. Facsimile equipment has been designed to record on film at high speed with adequate resolution for direct processing to a printing plate."
"The system design and system accuracy of an Audio Voltage Calibrating Standard is described and discussed. The unit provides a regulated setable sine-wave output voltage of 0.1000 to 1,099.9 volts in 4-decade ranges from 50 cps (cycles per second) to 10 kc (kilocycles). The rated accuracy is ±0.05% of indicated value at 10% to 100% of each decade range from 50 cps to 2,500 cps. The accuracy reduces to ±0.25% at 10 kc in the frequency range of 2,500 cps to 10 kc. The output current capability varies from 5 amperes at the low voltages to 40 milliamperes at the highest output voltage."
"The effect of winding potentials on the errors of a current transformer are discussed, and the concept of a voltage coefficient for each winding is defined. A method of measuring these voltage coefficients, based on superposition principles, is given. The influence of various design features, such as the method of changing ratio, internal shielding, and the proximity of grounded surfaces are discussed. Methods are also given for making current transformer errors essentially independent of winding potentials."
"THE REQUIREMENT of interchangeability of components bearing the same manufacturer's type number introduces the possibility of system error in instrument systems which is over and above the errors attributable to the individual components. The origin of this effect is a consequence of the variation of the parameters of the components, occurring to some degree in any production process."
"ONE OF THE most important measurements in a nuclear power reactor is temperature. The accuracy and reliability with which temperature can be measured determines to a considerable extent the maximum power at which a nuclear reactor may be operated. An additional desirable requirement for the temperature measuring elements is that their accuracy and reliability be assured over the life of the reactor. After a review of the literature and discussions with individuals from various organizations, it appeared that adequate experimental data were not available for appraisal of the performance of temperature measuring elements in high nuclear fluxes and for long periods of time."
"Directly measured static control characteristics of external-feedback-type magnetic amplifiers with Silectron, Orthonol, and Supermalloy tape cores are compared with the corresponding ordinary-saturable characteristics obtained in a previous experimental study.1 With free even-harmonic conditions, minimized rectifier-reverse-current effects, and moderate ampere-turn gain (up to approximately 100) there is good agreement between corresponding characteristics. With high-ampere turn gain values (approximately 300 to 500, as obtained with nickel-iron alloy core materials) there are differences between the directly and indirectly measured characteristics which are not fully explained. They may, however, be accounted for by the variations of actual forward resistance and reverse-current effects of the feedback-rectifier elements."
"Differences in work function over the surface of a particle can result in dipole characteristics which are important for small particles. Electrostatic deposition orients these dipoles so that coulomb forces exist between adjacent layers of particles, thus producing high adhesive forces. This orientation is confirmed by measurements of contact potentials. Tests of electrostatically deposited dust show adhesive forces which are normally an order of magnitude greater than adhesive forces of the same dust mechanically deposited."
"This paper discusses suppressed carrier modulation circuits employing the tunnel diode as the nonlinear active element. A side-band-to-carrier ratio of 40 db (decibels) is achieved with a single tunnel diode. It is shown that a balanced modulator using two tunnel diodes acts as a ring modulator. Linear equivalent circuits for the tunnel diode modulators are developed and the performance criteria presented."
"The performance of a magneto-hydrodynamic (MHD) channel is discussed. Solutions of the MHD equations are evaluated through the channel as a function of inlet Mach number, voltage parameter, magnetic-interaction parameter, and channel aspect ratio. The over-all performance of a re-entry vehicle channel throughout the trajectory is described for various vehicle applications as a function of the trajectory, the channel, and the vehicle geometry. Various design aspects are discussed including the coil channel, electrodes, seeding requirements, Hall and ion slip effects. A typical MHD channel and coil design is included."
"The composite characteristic of two voltage-controlled negative-resistance devices in series may be a multivalued function of either voltage or current. This paper treats the dynamic behavior of such a composite device. Results obtained by analog computer simulation are shown to be descriptive of the behavior of actual tunnel diode circuits. Major emphasis is given to circuits having a high load resistance."
"Two types of fast-heating oxide cathodes with heating times of approximately 800 and 300 milliseconds are described. The shortest time is obtained with the “harp cathode” made from very thin tungsten wire coated with a small amount of barium-strontium oxide."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The engineering profession faces the loss of its leadership in American technology. Signs of distress are many. School enrollment falls steadily while the most gifted shift to “pure” science. Why? Part of the reason is a revulsion of idealistic youth against the brutality of modern weaponry; part lies in the feeling that technology has, in the main, reached its frontiers. Modern engineering must again become an “art” form, stressing the most fruitful interplay of theory and practice, and must not be afraid of creative improvisation"
"A simple, rapid method has been devised for testing lamination insulation in magnetic cores. Where adequate technical and economic data are available for each specific application, results are sufficiently accurate to determine whether a coil should be rewound or scrapped. The same technique and equipment can be used for a large variety of cores"
"Many lives are lost annually because of circulatory arrest as the result of heart attacks or accidents. Proper and timely administration of closed-chest cardiac massage, in conjunction with artificial respiration, often serves to preserve life during the crucial period before the arrival of professional help. Techniques of this vital “last chance” therapy are discussed"
"Automation techniques are currently being utilized in photometric studies to determine accuracy, reliability, and repeatability of luminaire performance, and the various testing procedures employed. Considerable time savings have been realized as the result of improvements made in testing, calculating, and plotting methods"
"Maximum reliability at minimum cost can be obtained in a power plant by high-quality application engineering. This includes adequate record keeping; proper knowledge of ambient conditions and operating practices; thorough study of load characteristics, power supply, transferring and starting facilities; and adequate specifications which do not impose costly nonstandard requirements"
"An exploding bridge wire (EBW) is a fine wire conductor that is fused and vaporized by the discharge of a discrete package of electric energy in an extremely short time period. It can be used as a localized source of heat. Electrical and mechanical design features of the electronic firing unit used to actuate the various EBW devices on space vehicles are described and advantages of this ignition system over low-voltage squib iginition are pointed out"
"Development of upstream storage projects in the Columbia River basin will redound to the advantage of both the United States and Canada in the form of flood control and increased benefits. The general physical characteristics of the basin, its hydrologic regime, Canadian storage projects selected, and the United States “base system” of projects for determining benefits from these storage developments are described"
"A one-way communication and centralized control system has been designed to meet preattack warning requirements by automatically turning on speakers in schools, factories, hospitals, public buildings, and community shelters. The postattack requirements of jam-free communications that cannot be intercepted by the enemy — radiation sensing, damage assessment, and determining areas of survivors — can easily be met by one man reading a tape in a civil defense control center"
"The individual quality of the human voice is, according to L. G. Kersta of Bell Telephone Laboratories, as distinctive as a fingerprint. Acoustic research has produced little “pictures” of one word of a person's speech. The pictures, or voice-prints reveal the patterns of voice energy in the various levels of pitch — patterns that are quite distinctive and identifiable."
"In tests, voiceprints had been made of the same word spoken by different persons, each person uttering it several different times. Each utterance of the word was voice-printed on a separate card. Then the cards were shuffled, and trained subjects were asked to group the cards representing each voice. Out of about 25,-000 decisions, these trained people made the right decisions more than 97 per cent of the time."
"Ultronic Systems Corporation, Pennsauken, N. J., recently demonstrated an electronic stock quotation service that provides split-second information on prices immediately after they are officially quoted on the floors of the exchanges. This system is one of the latest to invade the stock brokerage field."
"A new laboratory tool with shock speeds of more than 25,000 mph and accompanying temperatures of 90,000 F was recently announced by Avco-Everett Research Laboratory."
"A glass disk, 7 feet in diameter and 13 inches thick, is destined to become the primary mirror for the largest telescope in the Southern Hemisphere. It was made by Corning Glass Works and shipped to the University of La Plata, Buenos Aires."
"Large atomic power plants that will, simultaneously, produce electricity from the atom and fresh water from the sea were predicted by G. A. Price, chairman of the board of Westinghouse Electric Corp. His remarks were a part of ceremonies at the dedication of new Point Loma, Calif., sea water conversion plant which Westinghouse built for the Office of Saline Water, U. S. Department of the Interior. The plant's million-gallon-a-day (mgd) output of ultrapure fresh water, distilled from the Pacific by a flash evaporation process, is being added to the city of San Diego's regular water supply."
"A thermoelectric air conditioner for the direct cooling, dehumidifying, and heating of air in spaces occupied by people has been produced and tested by Carrier Corp."
"An alarm system has been developed that provides almost instantaneous indication at a control headquarters for all failures of electric utility substations throughout the supply area. Information registered on an illuminated annunciator informs headquarters which substation has failed and what faults have occurred. The system is completely electronic with no mechanical moving parts."
"A recent device called a “ball tracker,” which is said to roll under the fingertips as slickly as a beachball on water, is the U.S. Armed Forces' latest control mechanism for tracking aircraft or missile targets."
"The next step toward lunar landings may be the accomplishment of a rendezvous between two vehicles in space — the alternative method to reaching the moon by direct flight. One of the vehicles will be the 2-man spacecraft Gemini now being developed for the purpose of docking with another vehicle while in orbit around the earth. The 2-man craft will be capable of earth orbital flights of a week or more, providing pilot training for future circumlunar flights of long duration. The flights are expected to yield data on how man functions under prolonged conditions of weightlessness, and to set the stage for continuing scientific investigations in the space environment."
"“Toward a Science and Program for Human Survival” was the theme of the First National Conference of the Congress of Scientists on Survival (SOS) held last month. The Congress is a voluntary association of social and physical scientists organized in November 1961 in New York City to utilize the special knowledge of all relevant scientific disciplines in a positive program for world peace and disarmament."
"Tomorrow's space settlers will carry “instant” homes and furnishings in deflated form in a hip pocket package or small cannister. This prediction is based upon a new plastic foam developed for the U. S. Air Force by the Hughes Aircraft Company."
"On an average a passenger car tire is retreaded once, a truck tire four or five times — retreading tires is a $500 million industry in this country. W. J. Voit Rubber Corp. announces an electronically controlled system for automatically applying tread rubber to tire casings which may make obsolete the present hand building methods of retreading."
"To help understand the effects of space upon materials we use — and upon humans — Lockheed Missiles and Space Co. uses the family car as an example."
"Solid fuel rocket motors are usually tubular-shaped, with varying lengths and diameters. One that is, unconventionally, round as a ball except for a flat circular area surrounding the inverted nozzle, has been successfully static-test fired. It was developed by the Naval Ordnance Test Station (NOTS) at a B. F. Goodrich plant for use on the upper stages of far-out atmospheric sounding rockets such as the Navy's Blue Scout series."
"General Electric scientists have recently announced a method of increasing the strength of magnetic fields that is simpler and less expensive than existing techniques. The technique was described by P. S. Swartz and C. H. Rosner in a paper presented before the American Physical Society at its Spring meeting."
"The weakest spot in conventional silicon rectifiers is at the perimeter of the silicon pellet where the rectifying junction comes out to the surface. This is where transient circuit voltages search out the weakest spot to squeeze through, causing overheating and melting in a localized area. A semiconductor which protects itself against damaging transient voltages, called the controlled avalanche rectifier, is announced by General Electric Co. The new rectifier overcomes this weak-spot limitation, the company says, in two ways: the manufacturing process of the rectifier yields surface dielectric stability at voltages in excess of 2,000 volts in a single junction, and the avalanche (zener) voltage of the internal bulk of the junction is intentionally controlled in manufacture so that it. always occurs at a lower voltage than that at which surface problems might be encountered."
"A study of silicon solar cells under various kinds of radiation has shown that the cells are the simplest and among the most useful devices available for measuring high-intensity radiation. These results are reported by Walter Rosenzweig of the Bell Telephone Laboratories in a forthcoming issue of the Review of Scientific Instruments. The cells are not useful for measuring very low levels of radiation such as that resulting from fallout."
"A new thermionic converter employing a liquid collector can deliver over 30 watts of electric power. Based on a proposal by G. N. Hatsopoulos, president of Thermo Electron Engineering Corp., the device obviates two problems that had long hindered the development of thermionic converters."
"A short history of technology. T. K. Derry and T. I. Williams. Oxford University Press, 417 Fifth Ave., New York 16, N.Y., 1961; 782 pages, $8.50. This 1-volume work, although not an abridgment of the 5-volume History of Technology edited by Charles Singer, is nevertheless derivative. The emphasis here is on the relationship of the history of western civilization to its technological development up to 1900. The year 1750 is used as an arbitrary division of two parts and a general historical survey precedes each part. Chronological tables that are included correlate events in technological and general history. Two indexes are used, persons and place names being separated from the subject. A selective bibliography is included for each chapter."
"Progress in dielectrics, edited by J. B. Birks, deals with microwave spectroscopy of gases, dispersion and absorption of microwaves in gases and liquids, ferroelectricity, gas breakdown in liquid dielectrics and static electrification. The book achieves a desirable balance between science and technology by deriving articles from both university and industrial laboratories. The 310-page book is priced at $12.00, from the Academic Press Inc., 111 Fifth Ave., New York 3, N.Y."
"More than 1,000 leading scientists and engineers will gather in San Francisco, Calif., August 13–16 to take part in the Pacific Energy Conversion Conference, to be held at the Fairmont Hotel. Although the conference will be held under the auspices of the AIEE, all interested engineers and scientists are invited to attend, regardless of their fields of specialization."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Plans are under way to stage the Fall General Meeting of AIEE in Chicago, Ill., on October 7–12. Site of the meeting, for the first time, will be the newly remodeled Pick-Congress Hotel on Michigan Avenue at the southern end of Chicago's Loop. Running concurrently with the general meeting will be the National Electronics Conference at near by McCormick Place on the lake front."
"More than 375 engineers from 20 states attended the AIEE Joint Mid-America and South West Districts Meeting held April 30-May 2 at the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel in St. Louis, Mo."
"Rapid progress in electrical and electronic controls for packaging machinery and in the proposed standards that will govern their use was revealed to nearly 100 engineers from electrical and packaging industries at the technical conference of the AIEE Packaging Industry Subcommittee in Atlantic City, N. J., on May 7–8."
"An invitation has been extended to American specialists attending the IFIP (International Federation of Information Processing) Congress-62 in Munich, Germany, to participate in public information programs to be held during the weeks prior to and following the Congress. These activities include lectures, talks, and radio and television interviews, and will occur in several of the Western European countries."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted by AIEE Transactions and will be open for written discussion until July 27. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, AIEE, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y., on or before July 27."
"“Photography in Science and Industry” was the subject of the Cleveland Section's Basic Science Group Meeting held jointly with the Electronics Communications Instrumentation Group and the Cleveland Society of Photographic Scientists and Engineers. A. C. Peed of Eastman Kodak was the guest speaker."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, a subsidiary of Royer and Roger, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department,∗ 41 East 28th Street, New York 16, N. Y."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 50€ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $10.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"During the past decade the notion of systems has received new emphasis in business, the military, industry and education. This emphasis can be attributed in part to the increasing technical complexity of many systems; to unusually short and demanding time schedules for their conception, development, and implementation; and to the recognition of common techniques and understanding that pervade a wide variety of systems applications."
"Today's large multiplant complexes in the chemical industry not only produce consumer products but also the chemical intermediates necessary to their manufacture. The competitive nature of the industry demands high-quality systems engineering techniques in the design and operation of such a complex. The present extent of these techniques, the nature of the decisions to be made, and the use of computers in their solution are discussed"
"Steam electric power stations tend to be more powerful, more valuable, and more complex with each new design. The utility systems engineer is, consequently, in continual search of better techniques in design, construction, and operation. Considered here are the means which may be used in designing an automated plant control system to assure optimum integration of man and machine for greatest operating reliability"
"For an airline data-processing system, the key objective of load-factor improvement should be met through a flexible design that will allow for future expansion. Systems analysis and synthesis must include all cost factors, so that an optimum balance between customer needs and system efficiency may be achieved"
"By means of modeling and simulation, the systems engineer is able to produce results that are representative of system performance without going through the time-consuming and expensive steps of full construction and testing. Some of the various types of models and simulation techniques in common use are described"
"Evaluation must be considered a continuing necessity during every phase of the large system's life, starting with the conceptual stage and continuing through design, fabrication, test, installation, and finally maintenance and operation. The object of this evaluation is everyone's concern — the greatest possible degree of reliability"
"Optimization techniques have been successfully applied to the solution of electric utility system operating and planning problems, and significant system improvements have been achieved. The techniques described and illustrated will have analagous application to other problems in the field of large systems"
"Retrieval of technical information is becoming more and more difficult as the quantity of published material increases rapidly. The system for indexing and abstracting described presents one possible solution. Use of “roles” and “links” makes the system both comprehensive and of maximum utility"
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see this issue, p. 623."
"Helmet sighting system by Sperry undergoes flight tests in H-13 helicopter. Through reticle attached to his helmet visor, the pilot sights his target and presses firing button on control stick to make “the kill.” The armament wheels around to face target, following pilot's head motion"
"A helmet that allows a helicopter pilot to shoot what he sees by simply looking at his target and pressing a button has been produced by Sperry Gyroscope Co. The helmet is of the standard Armed Service type, but with a special adaptation which links the action of the helicopter's guns, missiles, or other armament to the pilot's vision."
"Solving a major problem in the tanning industry is an Allis-Chalmers electronic area computer recently installed at the Pfister & Vogel Tanning Company plant in Milwaukee. The new device enables the tannery to speed up the processing, and ensures uniform sizing of the tanned skins, important facets in the firm's treatment of leather."
"With a conventional stethoscope it is difficult for the physician to analyze portions of the heart cycle he wants to hear, because of the abundance of noises that are of no interest to him in his examination. An electronic stethoscope, developed by Bell Aerosystems Co., enables the physician for the first time to eliminate by advanced electronic techniques all unwanted portions of the heartbeat cycle and bring into focus only those sounds of interest to him at the moment."
"Is there life on the planet Mars? Scientists hope to come a step closer to answering the question if a study being made by Ford Motor Company's Aeronutronic Division proves successful. NASA has awarded a study contract to Ford to determine if short-cut methods can be found for tracking down traces of life on other planets."
"An effort is being made by the General Electric Company to make new measurements of the speed of light. Success in this undertaking could have far-reaching effects in efforts to explore space, as well as in the improvement of man's basic knowledge of the world and the universe. A whole new set of measurement standards, for example, are necessary to meet the extremely critical tolerances involved in landing space vehicles on other worlds. These standards must be accurate beyond anything previously known or needed."
"A series of research advances in microelectronics that will bring substantial reductions in the size and cost of future microcircuits was recently announced by Sylvania Electric Products Inc."
"A new guidance concept that could greatly simplify recovery of capsules returning to the earth from voyages in outer space was described in a paper by M. P. Frank and John P. Bryant at the recent meeting of the Institute of the Aerospace Sciences."
"Scientists at International Business Machines Corporation's (IBM) Research Laboratory in Zurich, Switzerland, have uncovered the first experimental evidence that a magnetic field reverses its direction or sign as it passes through a superconducting thin film."
"Capsules of laser-maser news contain these items of interest:"
"The usefulness of balloons in meteorological, atmospheric, and space research increases as their capability of sustaining a constant altitude improves. In the test series conducted by Air Force Research Laboratories now under way a superpressurized balloon carrying a 40-pound payload was recently launched from Chico, Calif., and descended on command 10 days later near Cedar City, Utah. It had sustained constant altitude at 70,000 feet during its 10-day flight."
"A new model of the RCA electron microscope, EMU-3G, with more than 20 improvements designed to simplify the instrument's operation and increase its productivity, is now in production at RCA's Camden, N.J., plant."
"Soon, Australians will know well in advance of cyclones headed toward them or performing in the vicinity. For the purpose, a new remotely controlled radar was designed and produced by Cossor Radar & Electronics, Ltd., English subsidiary of Raytheon Co. It was built for the Australian Bureau of Meteorology."
"Calculations show that large ceramic-fueled fast reactors have an inherent safety factor built into them. A reactor experiment, the Experimental Fast Ceramic Reactor (EFCR), has been proposed to demonstrate conclusively the effectiveness of this important safety mechanism."
"A schematic diagram, called a “measles” chart has proved to be a reliable tool for locating, diagnosing, and correcting elusive troubles in circuits and components. The chart is marked with a dot near the schematic symbol of a failed part. The measles are colored dots on a diagram; they indicate true failures, handling failures, and test errors. With the chart, engineers of design and of reliability, shop-follow engineers, and field service engineers can analyze troublesome circuits and determine causes of failures. The charts aid in design of new circuits and act as a check on circuit reliability."
"In one of the first commercial applications of polypropylene as wire insulation, Boston Insulated Wire and Cable Co., Dorchester, Mass. has constructed a 2-wire armored cable for the U. S. Department of Defense."
"The National Aeronautics and Space Administration's new space weather observer, now sending cloud pictures and other weather data back to earth for analysis by meteorologists, uses the earth's magnetic field to orient itself for a better view of the clouds it photographs."
"Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., of Osaka, Japan, has developed a process utilizing the human body as a source of thermoelectricity for powering a pocket-sized transistor radio."
"Mathematical methods for technologists, edited by Margaret N. Strain. D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc., 120 Alexander St., Princeton, N.J., 1961; 584 pages; $9.75. The editor and five of her colleagues at the Birmingham (England) College of Advanced Technology have written this text as a presentation of the fundamental theories of mathematics used in industry. Applications and exercises in mechanical and electrical engineering fields demonstrate the calculus, vector analysis, matrices, and numerical methods. The book may be used as a review for both students and engineers who use mathematical analysis in any application."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, a subsidiary of Royer and Roger, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department,∗ 41 East 28th Street, New York 16, N. Y."
"The highlight of the general session, held June 18, was the announcement of the membership action on the proposal to merge with IRE to form IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers). The mailed proxy vote was as follows:"
"An important feature of the Summer General Meeting was the comprehensive technical program presented through the week. Approximately 250 papers were given at more than 60 sessions, on topics covering a wide range of interest. Brief summaries of a few of the sessions follow."
"With the merger settled, so far as AIEE is concerned, by the Annual Meeting on Monday, the Board of Directors divided its Friday, June 22, meeting agenda between AIEE “business as usual” and preparations for the transition to IEEE next January 1."
"A “Policy Guide for AIEE Sections Contemplating Joint Action with Other Societies” was approved by the Board of Directors on June 22 in Denver."
"An AIEE policy on recruiting at conventions and expositions was approved by the Institute's Board of Directors on June 22."
"On Tuesday, June 19, during the Summer General Meeting in Denver, the Section Delegates Conference was held in both morning and afternoon sessions. Howard C. Brem, chairman of the Sections Committee, presided. He called the meeting to order promptly, read the AIEE Dedication of Purpose, and introduced the officers of the Institute and AIEE staff members present."
"Several interesting sessions on various aspects of engineering education were presented at the Summer General Meeting under the sponsorship of the Education Committee. The role of education in providing a climate for engineering achievement was discussed in a Monday morning session., R. W. Shaw, Omaha Public Power District, summarized a panel discussion that had been presented at the Winter General Meeting. He stressed the importance of defining what we mean by engineering achievement and of choosing the best available methods."
"President Warren H. Chase was the opening speaker at the 29th Forum of Technical Committee Chairmen in Denver on June 20, after brief introductory remarks by F. L. Lawton, Director of the Institute's Technical Operations Department."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The annual dinner meeting of the Pittsburgh Section was attended by 250 members and guests on Monday, April 9, at the South Hills Country Club."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60€ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $10.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The rapid expansion of the electrical sciences is reflected in the engineering curriculum where a concentration on theory at the expense of experimentally derived knowledge has left the student's grasp of fundamental principles in a shaky condition. Teaching aids can help anchor the student to bedrock principles and facts while his head spins in the mists of theory"
"Large magnetic fields are common laboratory tools today mainly because of the increased interest in thermonuclear research and plasma propulsion. Fields are usually generated by passing high currents through solenoid coils, which require large amounts of power during the time of interest. The capacitor bank, the most universal system for storing and delivering this power, can deliver very high currents for short periods and is cheap compared to a high-current generator"
"In spite of the great improvement in the mobility of pneumatic-tired vehicles, there are many types and conditions of terrain where the tracked vehicle is still superior. Projected improvements in tracked vehicles include: use of band tracks, better suspension, pneumatic-tired track rollers with individual drive, and better steering. These changes require an improvement in the transmission. The d-c electric type with metadyne equipment is found to be the most satisfactory"
"Telemetry, the science of measuring physical quantities and events remotely, has been developed to a high degree for missile and space vehicle applications. The benefits from this development are now becoming available to industry in the form of simple, reliable, economical FM/FM radio telemetry systems. These systems enable development engineers to measure many factors under actual, rather than laboratory, conditions"
"A recently developed frequency-multiplier system is, in effect, a group of transformers, one for each degree of multiplication. An experimental 7X unit with 60-cycle input gave a 420-cycle output approaching 90 per cent efficiency and with excellent voltage regulation and waveform. Applications include high-speed a-c motors, fluorescent lighting, induction heating, and communication equipment"
"A series of nuclear plant economic studies, based on closed-cycle water-cooled plants from 600 to 1,000 Mw, reveals the practicability of nuclear installations in areas of moderately high fossil-fuel costs. The studies were made by the technique of system simulation on a large digital computer. This technique is well documented in the literature1–3"
"“For meritorious achievements in the design of electrical machinery; more specifically, for analyses of synchronous machine characteristics leading to improved designs and for exceptional contributions to the application and control of machines used in electric power systems.”"
"Once again we have the pleasure of awarding the Lamme Medal to a man who well deserves this coveted honor. In presenting the award, we honor not only its recipient, but also the memory of its founder — Benjamin Garver Lamme."
"It is to me especially fitting that today the name of Charles Concordia should be placed beside that of Benjamin Garver Lamme. Both men have evidenced in their careers an outstanding capacity for technical leadership, for pioneering applications, and for inspiring teaching. Both have exercised brilliant ability to recognize and formulate basic principles cutting across the classical disciplines. But above all, both men had the ability to develop from these principles practical solutions to electrical design and development problems. And their solutions have stood the test of the technological revolution of our times."
"I am highly honored to accept this medal in memory of so eminent an engineer as Mr. Lamme. May I also say that I was not only surprised but also, to a degree, shocked when I was first informed of this honor. I had always thought of medals as being given either to bright young men, to encourage them to further efforts, or to distinguished old men, in order to provide an occasion to learn their philosophy of life and work. However, the middle-aged man, in which group I had up to now classified myself, actively engaged in the practice of his profession, is normally under such competitive, family, and financial pressure that he does not need any additional encouragement, while at the same time he has been so busy that he has not yet developed a philosophy worth listening to. So it is truly a special pleasure to be included among the group of distinguished recipients of the Lamme Medal, whose contributions to the development of electrical equipment have been so great. I am especially pleased to recall that I have had the privilege of being personally acquainted with 15 out of the 34 recipients. I recall also that A. B. Field, the first Lamme Medalist, wrote a very stimulating article on liquid cooling of rotating machinery — which today still has a very modern theme — that influenced my own studies of liquid cooling made during the early 1930's under the direction of H. M. Hobart."
"About the middle of August 1962, the voting members of AIEE and IRE were given an opportunity to elect a slate of officers nominated by the 14-Man Merger Committee and endorsed by the Boards of Directors of AIEE and IRE. The ballot was accompanied by the following letter from the Presidents of the two constituent societies:"
"We are happy to report that the Voting Members of our two Institutes have ratified the Agreement of Merger (as published in Part II of the April 1962 issue of the PROCEEDINGS of the IRE and in Section II of the April 1962 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) by vote of 29,464 aye, 4,383 no in AIEE, and 36,221 aye, 5,489 no in IRE. This agreement provides, in paragraph 3, that the IRE and AIEE Boards of Directors shall nominate a slate of 25 Directors for the continuing organization (to be named IEEE), one of whom is to be designated President and one designated a Vice-President, and that the Voting Members of AIEE and IRE shall vote to accept or reject the slate as a whole. The enclosed ballot contains this slate. If you are a Voting Member of both IRE and AIEE, you will receive two ballots and are entitled to vote both. Please mark the ballot for or against the slate as a whole, insert it in the plain envelope, seal the plain envelope and insert it in the mailing envelope enclosed, and write your signature in the place indicated on the mailing envelope."
"Ernst Weber — President, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, N.Y. Born 1901. Ph.D. (1926) University of Vienna; D. Sc. (1927) Technical University, Vienna. President IRE, 1959; Vice-President IRE, 1962; IRE Director, 1952–62. AIEE Committees, 1937 to date; IRE Committees, 1941 to date. AIEE Fellow (1934) citation: “For investigations and publications on electron flow, field transients, non-linear circuits, and electromagnetic units.” IRE Fellow (1951) citation: “For his outstanding service and achievement in the field of engineering education and for his many contributions to electromagnetic theory.” Recipient, Electrical Engineering Education Medal, 1960."
"The Agreement of Merger and its Exhibits provide for the appointment of Officers and the designation of Directors to particular duties. The Resolution of Merger provides for a 14-Man Merger Committee to “prepare for and take all necessary steps to implement the merger.” Pursuant to this Resolution and in the event that the slate of Directors presented herewith is approved by the memberships of the two Institutes, it is the intention of the Merger Committee to suggest to the elected Board the following designations: 1. Vice-President Teare as representing the Sections Committee 2. Director Oliver as a Vice-President representing the Professional Technical Groups Committee 3. Director Pratt as Secretary 4. Director Clark as Treasurer 5. Director Ryder as Editor 6. Director Blackmon as representing the Technical Operating Committee 7. Director Berkner (Senior Past President IRE) 8. Director Chase (Junior Past President AIEE) 9. Director Haggerty (Junior Past President IRE) 10. Director Linder (Senior Past President AIEE)"
"Pres. W. H. Chase and IRE Pres. P. E. Haggerty announced on July 31 the appointment of Donald G. Fink (Fellow AIEE) as general manager of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. Mr. Fink is presently Director of the Philco Scientific Laboratory and will remain in that post until his successor is appointed. Presidents Chase and Haggerty stated that Mr. Fink was the unanimous choice of a 14-man Merger Committee appointed by the Boards of the two societies."
"The inside front cover of the September 1962 issue of the IRE Student Quarterly contains a letter to the student readers from AIEE President B. R. Teare, Jr., and IRE President, P. E. Haggerty. The letter outlines a number of steps in AIEE and IRE student affairs taken to coincide with the beginning of the academic year."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Dr. E. W. Engstrom, chairman of the Hoover Medal Board of Award, has announced that the 1962 Hoover Medal will be awarded to Walker Lee Cisler, president of the Detroit Edison Co."
"AIEE members and guests will have an opportunity to combine a visit to Chicago, with attendance at not only the AIEE Fall General Meeting but also the National Electronics Conference which will run during the first 3 days of the meeting."
"Five winners have been selected by the AIEE Recognition Awards Committee for 1962 to receive awards at the Institute's Fall General Meeting on Monday, October 8, in Chicago, Ill."
"The 9th Electrical Conference of the Petroleum Industry has been scheduled for September 9–12 in Cleveland, Ohio, at the Pick-Carter Hotel. This conference is sponsored by the Petroleum Industry Committee of AIEE."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The results of the AIEE District Student Prize Paper Competitions have been announced. In addition to the $25 Institute award to the first place winner in each District, the Members-For-Life Fund provided additional prizes. These included a trip to the Summer General Meeting in Denver, Colo. to the first place winners, $25 to the second place winners, and $15 to third place winners."
"The Prize Awards Committee of AIEE has awarded District prizes for 1960–61 Transactions papers prepared by residents of Institute Districts. First prize consists of a certificate and $75, and second prize, of a certificate and $50."
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"Two powerful new computer languages, designed to broaden use of numerically controlled machine tools in smaller machine shops, have been developed by International Business Machines Corp."
"A new electronic device, expected to have important applications in modern communications, has been developed at the M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory in Lexington, Mass., operated under U.S. Air Force contract with the joint support of the U.S. Army, Navy, and Air Force. A full report on this device was presented at the July 1962 Solid-State Device Research Conference at Durham, N.H., by R. J. Keyes and T. M. Quist of the Lincoln Applied Physics Group."
"The quietest (in terms of radio interference) accessible valley in Northern California, was chosen in 1959 for the University of California's new Radio Astronomy Laboratory, which formally went into service in Hat Creek Valley, 20 miles north of Lassen Volcanic National Park in June of this year, and is now in full operation."
"A great advance in the accuracy of detecting and measuring motion has been made by a laser doppler radar model, and a technique is now used for multiplying the power of a laser, according to recent announcements."
"The International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. has developed a unique universal transportable radio station for use as a satellite communications ground terminal."
"Two full-scale special-purpose computer memories that operate in split-millionths of a second have been developed by IBM. One, completely operational, reacts in 0.7 microsecond while the other, a much larger system, has reached 0.75 microsecond under testing. Both use advanced magnetic core technology."
"A simple ceramic rod which spontaneously generates electricity has been developed by engineers at the Martin Company's Nuclear Division."
"The first trial installation of a new automatic system for reading remote industrial gas meters over the telephone toll network is now in operation in Toronto, Canada."
"Recent news items on space developments concern a space chamber, a new Nova rocket to be launched 3 years from now, and the ripe old age of satellites."
"Thirty-seven basic research grants and contracts totaling more than 1.7 million dollars were awarded to universities and research firms during June by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research."
"Man's ability to understand the vagaries of weather may be improved by a technique which converts satellite cloud photographs to digital form, reconstructs them in a digital computer, and then reproduces them as a Mercator projection. The new technique, developed by IBM's Federal Systems Division, was sponsored by the Geophysics Research Directorate of the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories, Bedford, Mass."
"The Voice of America broadcasts in 38 languages as a means of bringing the truth to millions in the captive nations. A vast voice boardcasting complex, now taking shape on the coastal plain of North Carolina, will use 150 miles of wire weighing 378 tons. The mountain of wire, wire rope, and strand, produced by U. S. Steel Corp., will be used to stabilize 400 antenna towers against the onslaught of the elements and support antenna networks between towers. The new Voice of America station will be the world's most powerful broadcasting facility. Communist jamming specialists will find it difficult to drown out the 5-million-watt voice. A 6,000-acre site has been developed for the new station. There will be three groups of equipment arranged in a triangular pattern. Two will house transmitting equipment, the other will be a receiving station."
"A diagnostic technique which may well lead to the effective detection of early stages of cancer of the vocal cords has evolved from a recently completed U.S. Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories (AFCRL) pilot study involving research into the anatomy of human speech."
"For copies of publications listed please write to the addresses given."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-opertion of Scripta Technica, Inc.∗ Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department,∗∗ 41 East 28th Street, New York 16, N. Y."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60€ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Numerous inquiries have been received concerning the publications policy to be followed after the merger of AIEE and IRE. Although this policy was published as Article XIV of the '^Principles of Consolidation\" in the supplement to the April issues of Electrical Engineering and Proceedings of the IRE, it seems wise to restate it briefly for the benefit of all members. IEEE will publish for a transition period of one year (the calendar year 1963) both Electrical Engineering and the Proceedings of the IRE in substantially their present form, with additional material on IEEE news, abstracts, and other information of interest to the general membership. This transition period may be extended for an additional period of up to one year by the IEEE Board of Directors. During this transition period, members of IRE at the time of merger (January 1, 1963) will receive only the Proceedings and members of AIEE at that time will receive only Electrical Engineering. Members of both Institutes at the time of merger, and new members of the IEEE, will receive one of these two publications at their choice. Any member may subscribe to the alternative publication. The policy to be followed subsequent to this transition period will be the subject of intensive study by an Editorial Committee to be appointed by the IEEE Board of Directors immediately following the date of merger. The objective of this study will be to devise policy and procedures to satisfy the needs of the IEEE membership for publications of high technical quality and broad general interest. The IEEE will publish Transactions produced by the Professional Technical Groups (including the present IRE Professional Groups and the AIEE Institute Technical Groups) and will also publish periodicals sponsored by the IEEE Technical Operating Committee (the successor to the AIEE Technical Operating Department). IEEE will publish a periodical for student members containing technical material and news items. Other publications, such as a Directory of Members with lists of manufacturers, products, and supplies; Convention and Conference Records; Cumulative Indexes; Standards, etc., will be published when warranted."
"Electrical engineering should be taught in a problem-solving environment in the light of broad objectives guided by the scientific method. Instead, courses are often designed for limited objectives with course content tailored to the interest of the teacher who has abandoned a careful exposition of the scientific method in favor of idealized generalizations. Consequently, students graduate who cannot deal adequately with complex problems arising from real-world situations"
"Experience in aircraft generation systems has been extended to permit the prediction of characteristics in aerospace applications. Important parameters include weight, size, power quality, life, reliability, vibration, acceleration, cooling, and nuclear radiation. Probable future accomplishments are forecast on the basis of current development effort and planning"
"To meet the many challenges of today's technology as well as a growing competition for the energy market, the electric power industry must face the fact that increased research effort is vital. Numerous aspects of present and future research by individual companies, by company groups, by equipment manufacturers, and by the EEI are described"
"Locating momentary faults in a power line permits inspections and necessary repairs to be made before progressive damage results in a sustained fault and loss of the line. A recently developed device continuously monitors a live line and records transient faults in terms of a reading that is readily converted to the distance of the disturbance from one end of the line"
"System reliability is built upon the effectiveness of overcurrent protection. The new electronic-controlled 3-phase power-class recloser has the capability of advancing reliability standards and helping to reduce over-all equipment, engineering, and operating costs"
"Digital telemetering techniques may be extended to many commercial applications, but they are economically justifiable only if they can be incorporated as part of an integrated control and telemetering system. One of the basic problems is the adaptation of digital telemetering coding schemes for use in a fully integrated system"
"The Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association published in 1943 the original edition of “Current Carrying Capacity of Impregnated-Paper, Rubber and Varnished Cambric Insulated Cables.” The excellent tables in this book were based on the best American practice at the time they were published and, as the title implies, were quite extensive in their scope. They served the industry well from the time of their publication to the present."
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"Man's exploration of space presents a multitude of problems, large and small. The subjects of the following paragraphs are a sampling of these problems; first, a simulated space environment — or vacuum — must be accessible for experimentation. Adaptation must be made of machines to the effects of space on lubrication; the problem of drinking water for astronauts must be solved. And, touching on the area of communications, a forecast of future television satellites is described."
"Five new gaseous optical masers, each using a different pure noble gas as the active medium, have been developed by scientists at Bell Telephone Laboratories. The masers, made of helium, neon, argon, krypton, and xenon, emit continuous beams of coherent radiation at a total of 14 different frequencies. The availability of this variety of frequencies represents a major step in advancing optical maser technology."
"A small barnyard owl, because of its large eye and complacent nature, has been teamed with a modern electronic computer for the purpose of studying some of the mysteries of the nervous system. The owl's name is Orpheus; the computer is a General Electric GE-225."
"All we really know about the moon is that it is a fairly smooth sphere of homogeneous material at the surface having a radius of 1,738 km (1.080 miles). More will have to be known before space travel becomes a reality and man lands on the moon — and one of his first needs will be for reliable means of communication."
"General Electric has discovered a “cool” method for ionizing gases in a magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) generator which could lead to the practical use of this new electric power generation process with nuclear reactors."
"A self-propelled deep sea research vehicle is planned, which for the first time will give a crew of three men the maneuverability needed to explore “the last frontier on earth” to a depth of over 2 miles."
"A submarine cable repeater that will amplify 128 2-way telephone calls simultaneously has been developed by Bell Telephone Laboratories to operate with the armorless cable. The repeater amplifies signals 100,000 times and is designed to operate reliably for at least 20 years."
"The world's first completely automated hot-strip mill will enter the initial phases of operation later this year in Llanwern, Wales."
"A new type of reserve power turbine-generator uses a cluster of 10 powerful jet engines as the driving force. The new unit, developed by General Electric Co., will be used by utilities and industry for meeting such increasing power demands as seasonal peak loads, daily peak loads, and system reserve requirements."
"The Boulder Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards has opened its 1962–63 campaign to recruit electronic engineers and physicists to serve for 12–18 months in the Antarctic research program, which includes a short training period at Boulder. Applications are now being considered. The recruiting drive is headed by William S. Hough, Field Engineering Section of the Central Radio Propagation Laboratory, in Boulder. Hough, a former Antarctic researcher, himself, emphasized today that the recruiting program is being pushed with the “utmost speed.”"
"Atomics International, a division of North American Aviation, Inc., has received a 1-year contract to provide the Army with a prototype of a unique power supply which converts heat directly to electricity without moving parts."
"Telstar, the Bell System's experimental communication satellite, will have completed hundreds of orbits around the earth by publication time of this story. As it is traveling these orbits, it provides engineers and scientists at Bell Telephone Laboratories with valuable scientific information, some of which is obtained through precise tracking of Telstar by the Bell Telephone System's Earth Station at Andover, Maine, and by NASA Minitrack stations around the world. Other information is obtained through communication tests to and from Telstar by Bell stations at Andover, and Holmdel, N.J.; by the British station at Goonhilly, Cornwall; and by the French station at Pleumeur-Bodou in Brittany. Also, a wealth of data is obtained through telemetry from Telstar and received by both Bell System and NASA stations."
"Chosen as top woman engineer for 1962 for her accomplishments in the field of metallurgy, Mrs. Laurence Pellier of Westport, Conn., was presented with the Society of Women Engineers' Achievement Award at the 12th Annual Convention recently held in Chicago. Mrs. Pellier is a Research Metallurgist for the Burndy Corporation, manufacturers of electrical and electronic connectors."
"As researchers are able to use even larger accelerators to learn more and more about the fundamental particles making up the nucleus of the atom, the field of particle acceleration has become one of the more important frontiers of science."
"The first transistorized electromagnetic blood flow meter has been announced. By employing transistor elements, Dr. A. W. Richardson of the St. Louis University School of Medicine, has succeeded in producing a meter 30 times smaller than his four previous models, and also more efficient and stable."
"Night vision, so vital to guerrilla warfare units, has taken strides in power. Microminiature infrared power supply sources have been designed to give five times more power up to 500 yards of vision than previous sources. The equipment is planned for use by the Army and Marines in night warfare."
"The biggest industrial X-ray machine in Southern California went on the job in August. A new 25-million electron-volt betatron — housed in a new building at Lockheed Propulsion Co.'s Potrero facility near Beaumont — gives the company a tool for locating potential trouble spots in the solid-propellant rocket motors."
"The day when men control machines by speech, instead of pushing buttons or flipping levers, may be closer as the result of studies made at Case Institute of Technology by H. W. Mergler, Associate Professor of Engineering."
"We have read with a great deal of interest Mr. G. Fred Lincks' letter on the subject of standardization, in the February 1962 issue of electrical engineering."
"THE WAVE MECHANICS OF ELECTRONS IN METALS, Stanley Raimes. Interscience Publishers, Div. of John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 440 Park Ave. South, New York 16, N.Y., 1961; 367 pages; $13. The basic principles of wave mechanics are developed from the fundamentals, and applications are given to simple 1-electron systems, atoms, and molecules, as well as to the more complex problems of metals and other solids. Particular attention is paid to the calculation of energies — not only 1-electron energies, but also the energy of the metallic system as a whole. The problem of the interaction of electrons is also discussed at length, and there is a chapter on plasma oscillations in metals."
"For copies of publications listed please write to the addresses given."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-opertion of Scripta Technica, Inc.∗ Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department,∗∗ 41 East 28th Street, New York 16, N. Y."
"A dynamic program, offering 35 significant papers on the latest electronic data processing (edp) developments by more than 60 international authorities, has been firmed for the 3-day 1962 Fall Joint Computer Conference which will open on December 4 at the Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa."
"The Pacific Energy Conversion Conference attracted an interesting mixture of technical disciplines that were represented by the 600 scientists and engineers in attendance. Probably less than half of those attending were members of AIEE. Electronic, mechanical, and chemical engineers; chemists, and physicists were there as well."
"The Institution of Electrical Engineers of the United Kingdom was the host for the 4th formal meeting of the Committee on Engineering Education and Training of EUSEC (Engineering Societies of Western Europe and the United States), held in London, England, June 25–30."
"The first International Conference on Nonlinear Magnetics (intermag) will be held April 17–19 at the Shoreham Hotel in Washington, D.C. intermag will serve as a forum for presenting new developments in theory and application on nonlinear magnetics."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 10th annual International Solid-State Circuits Conference will be held February 20–22 in Philadelphia, Pa., on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania and at the Sheraton Hotel."
"The 4th Western Technical Conference, sponsored jointly by the AIEE Committees on Domestic Appliances and Domestic and Commercial Applications, will be held at the Biltmore Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif., on Monday, October 29."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60€ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A survey is presented of the probable future use and relative value of various energy conversion systems and devices. An earth population of 7 billion within the foreseeable future has been forecast. To meet the consequent energy needs, a broad and sustained attack through high-quality basic and applied research must be undertaken with significant progress recorded within the next decade"
"Electric propulsion schemes for space travel will be competitive only to the extent that electric power generation systems can be made extremely lightweight, efficient, and reliable. Electrostatic generators employing electrets have been designed and tested, with promising results. It is believed that further research in this area, particularly on new materials, will prove to be rewarding"
"One of the best ways the power industry can attract capable young engineers is by optimizing the use of its technical manpower. In addition to effective manpower utilization, the industry must enhance its image through favorable feedback to the college campuses. Several methods for achieving this goal are suggested"
"The basic low-frequency-response limitation of magnetic amplifiers has been overcome by a “modified series” arrangement that permits the use of excitation frequencies up to 200 kc. Two important operational consequences are effective square-wave excitation by use of constant-amplitude d-c pulses and “diode-derived” operation without the use of diodes"
"Various solid-state energy conversion concepts under development by the U.S. Air Force are discussed from the standpoint of present capabilities to satisfy aerospace vehicle electric-power needs. Performance possibilities based on completely developed concepts are estimated. Energy sources considered are solar, nuclear chemical, and acoustic, with emphasis on solar and nuclear"
"Of three types of electric propulsion devices under investigation, the arc jet is the closest to practical application. The basic requirements of an arc-jet integrated electric propulsion system are presented; various approaches are pointed out and potential applications of such systems in space are discussed"
"Some of the features of the new National Electrical Code — particularly the section on interrupting capacity — may present problems to the man in the field. The objective of this presentation is to discuss the principles involved, the phraseology used, and some of the pitfalls to be avoided. The aids available are also described and explained"
"Three inherent functions necessary to the commutation of a d-c machine are: field position detection, switch selection, and the switching arrangement itself. Various means of performing these functions without using conventional commutators and brushes are analyzed and compared, and an experimental machine is discussed to demonstrate the use of solid-state devices to perform the function of commutation on a d-c machine"
"The ITT Federal Laboratories, a division of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. recently disclosed plans for the first satellite communication experiment linking North and South America."
"Diesel-driven motor-generator sets are providing “precision power” for Western Union's new microwave radio beam system that will span the nation in interlocking bands when it is completed toward the end of this year."
"Hughes Aircraft Co. has developed new space radiation instruments to determine the amount of radiation energy an astronaut will absorb at five points of his body."
"The recent opening of Bell Telephone Laboratories new development center is the latest page in a 33-year history that has established Holmdel as a leading center for communications research and development."
"International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. (ITT) has developed an emergency call system for use along the nation's highways and toll roads, in national parks, and other remote areas open to the public."
"A transistorized computer that automatically records individual or team scores in bowling, provides each player with a printed record, and projects scoring to an overhead screen, has been developed by Brite-Lite Corp. of America, Phoenix, Ariz."
"One solution to the problem of shaping hard-to-form aerospace metals and alloys may turn out to be “almost as simple as making a batch of ice cubes.”"
"The Air Force recently dedicated an atomic power plant at its Sundance, Wyo., base located on a remote mountain top. The A-plant marks a major milestone in the practical use of atomic energy. Designated PM-1, it will vastly simplify the Air Force supply problems at this vital aerospace surveillance station. A single reactor core — about the size of a 55-gallon oil drum — will do a job here that at other radar installations takes more than 2 million gallons of hard-to-ship diesel oil. The reactor will provide heat to make electricity for the giant radars for two years before the core needs replacing."
"A “bat” radar device which, when fully developed, may allow a blind man to throw away his cane has been produced by Lockheed Missiles & Space Co."
"To the average person, glass has three primary characteristics: it is inert (in other words, it does not corrode or rust deteriorate); it is transparent; and it is fragile. The fragility of glass, over the years, has challenged scientists, who have always known that it has tremendous inherent strength. Up to now, physical tempering has been used successfully to strengthen products such as water glass tumblers, windows for automobiles, and plate glass doors, but tempering is limited to thick glass and simple shapes. Now, a basic new method is being developed experimentally: Scientists have announced a way to make glass products five times stronger than ever before."
"For the past 11 years the Federation of the Handicapped has executed subcontract work for the Government and for large private corporations. In contrast to current unemployment figures, news comes from the Federation that its four industrial divisions are expanding, and that as of mid-September there were job vacancies for 100 paid on-the-job trainees in the electronics assembly and industrial packaging departments."
"A new technique for producing “cracker-crumb”-sized microelectronic circuits reduces the circuit production time-cycle from 10 weeks to 2 weeks and allows an endless variety of circuits to be produced. The new technique allows the formation of many different circuits simultaneously on the same wafer. General Electric Co., who announce the system, believe that this is the first microelectronic production process which allows more than one circuit configuration to be formed on a wafer at the same time and which eliminates the need for “flying” interconnecting leads. Lower production costs are expected to result from this."
"Spert-IV, the fourth in a series of test facilities for studying nuclear reactor safety, achieved criticality (sustained a controlled chain reaction) recently at AEC's national reactor testing station (NRTS) in Idaho. This is the 32nd reactor brought to criticality at the NRTS since its establishment in 1949."
"Pooling is the efficient sharing of facilities, including transmission lines, by electric power systems in the interest of producing reliable power at the lowest possible cost to the consumer consistent with good operating practice. It provides flexible transmission of power as demand varies from area to area."
"A 6-man scientific team is preparing for a long airlift south to begin investigation of Antarctica's ice-girdled Pensacola Mountains, one of the few remaining unexplored mountain ranges in the world."
"Conventional telephone exchanges are electrochemical and require maintenance by skilled technicians. Tomorrow's device, conforming to the age of automation, will be fully transistorized and will have no moving parts, gears, or contact points that normally require frequent adjustment and repair. Demonstrated recently was such a device, the Kelex 2000, a 100-line model that is designed for private telephone systems in factories, schools, hospitals, offices, aboard ships, or wherever internal systems are needed. The Kelex 2000 was shown by ITT Kellogg, a division of International Telephone and Telegraph Corp."
"I am happy about having a system available such as that described in the August issue in “A Solution to the Information Retrieval Problem,” and I have some suggestions:"
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"For copies of publications listed please write to the addresses given."
"NUCLEAR REACTOR FUEL ELEMENTS, edited by Albert R. Kaufmann. Interscience Publishers, Div. of John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 440 Park Ave. South, New York 16, N.Y., 1962; 739 pages; $27. This work is primarily for metallurgists and fabrication specialists faced with the problems of making fuel elements. It discusses uranium, plutonium, and thorium, and their alloys; uranium dioxide and other ceramic fuels; cladding materials; interactions between core and cladding; and the behavior of fissionable material under irradiation. In addition it describes engineering aspects of fuel elements, fabrication of core materials, cladding and bonding techniques, fuel subassembly concepts, and inspection and testing. Concluding sections deal with description and performance of operational fuel elements, processing irradiated fuel elements, and fluid-fuel systems."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-opertion of Scripta Technica Inc.∗ Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department,∗∗ 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N. Y."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60€ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"The 13th Annual Machine Tools Industry Conference, sponsored by AIEE, will be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel, Detroit, Mich., November 26–28."
"The 4th Symposium on Engineering Aspects of Magnetohydrodynamics is to be held at the University of California, Berkeley, Calif., on April 10–11, 1963. It is planned that the program shall be concerned with plasmas in the presence of a magnetic field and, in particular, with their engineering aspects."
"Funds have been made available for one or more Charles LeGeyt Fortescue Fellowships for 1963–64. The amount of the award has been fixed at $2,500. The awards are made to postgraduate students in the field of electrical engineering who have received the baccalaureate degree from duly recognized technical schools in the United States or Canada."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted by AIEE Transactions and will be open for written discussion until November 27. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, AIEE, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y., on or before November 27."
"All members of the Institute are eligible to submit nominees. Such nominations are to be made on a form which may be procured from Mrs. A. L. Landres, Secretary of the Recognition Awards Committee, at AIEE Headquarters, 345 East 47 St., New York 17, N.Y. Each form should be accompanied by supporting letters from others who are familiar with the accomplishments and qualifications of the nominee. These forms and letters are due at AIEE Headquarters not later than April 1, 1963. Nominations for the awards previously submitted may be brought to the attention of the committee this year by a letter of re-nomination, plus any additional material bringing the candidate's achievements up to date."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Walter Alfred Hedrich (AM'36, M'42), professor of electrical engineering at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA, died August 8, 1962. Harry John Kaul (AM'49, M'58), a design engineer at Westinghouse Electric Corp., Sharon, PA, USA, died July 26, 1962. Herbert Elvy McCormack (M'45), superintendent of system operation for the Appalachian Power Co., Roanoke, VA, USA, died July 15, 1962. James Grady Rollow (AM '26, M'33, F'42, Member for Life), retired chief special agent and butadiene plant engineer with the Southern California Gas Co., died recently."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"To the Members of AIEE: AIEE begins 1963 with a new name, nearly three times its present membership, and proportionately expanded opportunities for service. Its structure and programs will be revised to serve better the needs of the rapidly changing technological environment. However, its purpose and objectives remain unchanged. These are the results for both partners in the consolidation from which AIEE and IRE will emerge as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers."
"Under the spur of the race into space and the persisting cold war, engineering developments during the past year continued to unfold at an ever quickening rate. Breakthroughs are imminent in a number of fields: energy conversion (an MHD device, shown on the cover of this issue, recently developed 1.3 million watts); the laser, whose development has given a glimpse of vast communication highways previously unseen and also promises to revolutionize the metal-processing industry within a few years; and the superconductivity phenomenon, whose boundary of potential applications steadily expands. In addition, such disciplines as bionics and medical electronics are growing in stature and in autonomy."
"Coherence and concentrated energy are properties of lasers which make them attractive for a variety of applications. Typical uses include communications, computers, metal-working machines, and weapons. Reviewed here are some of the many interesting contributions to this active field made in 1962."
"By the use of a hard magnetic material, such as alnico, in the leakage-flux paths of the secondary circuits of an induction motor, a remarkably high locked-rotor torque per ampere can be obtained without the sacrifice of full-load speed. Test data are presented for both wound-rotor and squirrel-cage motors employing this “Saturistor” principle"
"It has been standard practice to provide stator frame shift on frequency changers that must be paralleled with other units that are already in operation. An installation is described in which it was decided to dispense with frame shifting and obtain no-load phase coincidence by the use of a differential coupling on one unit. Advantages include simplicity and low first cost"
"Although the highly gifted Swiss industrial research scientist, Hermann Lemp, made many important contributions to our industrial technology, his efforts have largely gone unrecognized. His life and his most significant achievements — particularly those in the diesel-electric field — are briefly reviewed here"
"Many questions concerning the nature of the planet Venus may be answered by data transmitted back from the Mariner spacecraft. Information concerning atmospheric and possibly surface temperatures is expected from the infrared radiometer supplied by Barnes Engineering Co. of Stamford, Conn."
"Simultaneous but independent announcements by International Business Machines Corp. and General Electric Co. show that one obstacle to more widespread use of lasers for communication has apparently been overcome. This obstacle is the difficulty previously experienced when attempts were made to modulate a laser beam."
"A power output of 1,350 kw has been achieved by an experimental magneto-hydrodynamic (MHD) generator (see the front cover of this issue) at the Avco-Everett Research Laboratory."
"Medical science, confronting the nuclear age, turns its attention to aspects of adaptation, but is also concerned with older problems of disease and health still incompletely solved. The biological effects of radiation are among the top subjects for attention; in the field of diseases still incurable, epilepsy comes in for experimentation; the mechanism of animals' eyes is being studied in connection with brain disorders; the use of electrodes aids in probing the mysteries of muscular dystrophy; and a report has been received from the Bureau of Standards concerning hearing measurement and its international implications."
"The Thermo Electron Engineering Corp. and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. (3M) have constructed and operated a cesium thermionic-thermoelectric cascade generator, one of the first to prove experimentally the practicability of cascading a high-temperature cesium thermionic generator with a thermoelectric generator."
"LEGAL ASPECTS OF ENGINEERING, Richard C. Vaughn. Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1962; 401 pages; $10.60. Intended for the engineer who has had limited practice in solving legal problems, the major portion of this work is devoted to bodies of law concerning contracts, torts, property, sales, agency, and patents. The necessary legal reasoning, legal procedures, ethics, and philosophy are examined from the viewpoint of the engineer as agent, manager, or executive. Legal cases are presented to serve as illustrations of the various principles studied, and as examples of legal reasoning."
"For copies of publications listed please write to the addresses given."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-opertion of Scripta Technica, Inc.∗ Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department,∗∗ 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N. Y."
"The General Session at the recent Fall General Meeting in Chicago featured two thought-provoking addresses; the first by President B. R. Teare, Jr.; the second by L. C. Truesdell, President, Zenith Sales Corporation."
"The many technical sessions at the Fall General Meeting held October 8–12 in Chicago proved once again that the electrical engineering field covers a constantly broadening scope. Excerpts from some of the various technical sessions are given in the following paragraphs."
"What may be the last regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held on Friday, October 12, the final day of the 1962 Fall General Meeting in Chicago, Ill., with 33 of the 38 voting members present. Clearing the decks for the impending merger was the major topic on the agenda."
"Important matters in relation to the AIEE-IRE merger were reviewed at the 30th Forum of Technical Committee Chairmen held in Chicago, October 11. Another subject of debate was the question of research needs of the emerging nations; a third was the quality of the technical papers submitted at the meetings. AIEE President B. R. Teare, Jr., spoke on the continuing education of engineers and the ways in which the new technical society could best achieve this objective. “Research Needs of the Emerging Nations” was the title of a paper by Dr. T. O. Paine. A panel headed by Dr. Ernst Weber, President-Elect of IEEE, explained how the IRE professional groups and technical committees function in respect to professional group operation and standards. The forum was called to order by Director D. E. Trucksess of the Technical Operations Department, who introduced the honorary chairman, President Teare."
"The first IEEE Winter General Meeting will be held January 27-February 1 in New York City. Technical sessions will take place at the Statler Hilton and New Yorker Hotels, as well as at the Coliseum, the site of the second Electrical Engineering Exhibition. About 138 sessions are to be organized by technical committees in each of the Institute's six technical divisions. More than 600 Transactions and Conference Papers are expected to be programmed for this meeting."
"The 9th National Symposium on Reliability and Quality Control will take place January 22–24 at the Sheraton-Palace Hotel in San Francisco."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Brig. Gen. H. D. Vogel, retired chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority, told the East Tennessee Section, AIEE, at its September meeting that engineers and men of other professions need “to be of the world and contribute to its progress.”"
"Several meetings of interest to the engineering profession in which EJC is participating, will be held in conjunction with the 129th annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, December 26–30, at the Sheraton Hotel in Philadelphia, Pa."
"A Manpower Conference, sponsored by the National Science Foundation, the Engineering and Scientific Manpower Commissions, and the National Research Council, will be held December 28 in Philadelphia, Pa., in connection with the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science."
"The San Diego Symposium for Biomedical Engineering will take place April 22–24, in conjunction with the IRE convention, at Del Webb's Oceanhouse, San Diego, Calif. The theme of the SDSBE will be interdisciplinary co-operation."
"The 13th annual Polytechnic International Symposium to be held in New York City on April 16–18 will be devoted to Optical Masers."
"Dr. E. C. Johnson, general chairman of the 1963 Spring Joint Computer Conference to be held May 21–23 at Cobo Hall, Detroit, Mich., has announced his executive planning staff."
"Planning the International Conference on Aerospace Support at a recent meeting in Washington, D.C. are: (Seated, left to right) Bob Weber, chairman, Arrangements Committee; Bill Layton, A/EE Headquarters, advisor; Dave Dobson, chairman, Publicity Committee; Jim Elliott, conference chairman; Jim Wasdyke, chairman, Military Exhibits; Ed Halas, general manager, Exhibits; Maj. H. T. Eldredge, Technical Sessions Committee. (Standing, left to right) Tom Wilburn, conference secretary; Delmar Ports, IRE liason; Wit Beatson, chairman, Registration. This conference and exhibit will open August 4 at the Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D.C."
"The Electro-Nuclear Conference to be held in Richland, Wash., April 29–30, is in the final stage of formulation. The program has been arranged to provide an integrated technical exchange and to acquaint those interested in this new industry with electrical engineering aspects of nuclear systems in the areas of development, design, operation, and maintenance. Closing dates have been established for transaction papers on January 29, and conference papers on February 28."
"A tutorial text on State Space Techniques, consisting of a collected group of five papers on State Space Techniques for Automatic Control, is now available."
"An invitation has been issued for papers to be presented at the 5th Electrical Insulation Conference, which will be held in Chicago, Ill., September 16–19 under the cosponsorship of AIEE and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association."
"AIEE members were honored recently for proficiency in their respective fields of endeavor."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60€ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents of Electrical Engineering for the calendar year 1962. It includes all special articles and authors, all news items, and all items published on AIEE technical program papers. A technical program paper will be listed as (62–000)."
"Preview of Proposals for Merger of AIEE and IRE as Approved by the Boards of Directors on March 9, 1962 and Recommended for Approval by the Voting Members of AIEE at the 1962 ANNUAL MEETING, 2 PM, June 18, 1962, in Denver, Colo. Proxy Forms will be Mailed to Voting Members May 4, 1962.[Supplement to ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING April 1962 In two sections Section II]."
"This Agreement entered into this day of, 1962, between the AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS, INC. (hereinafter sometimes referred to as “AIEE”) having its principal office at 345 East 47th Street, New York City, and THE INSTITUTE OF RADIO ENGINEERS, INC. (hereinafter sometimes referred to as “IRE”) having its principal office at 1 East 79th Street, New York City, both corporations duly organized under the Membership Corporations Law of the State of New York and both of said parties being hereinafter sometimes jointly referred to as the “constituent corporations,”"
"Sec. 1. The name of this society is the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, hereinafter called the IEEE."
"To promote the aims and purposes of the AIEE and the IRE, to improve the quality of the technical and scientific functions performed by these societies, and to increase the benefits accruing to the general public from their operations, these membership organizations have undertaken studies directed towards consolidation into a single society. The general form and organization of this proposed consolidation are stated in the following “Principles of Consolidation.”"
"WHEREAS, the board of directors of this corporation, by resolution adopted on October 20, 1961, concluded that it would be in the best interests of this corporation and its members if a merger of this corporation and The Institute of Radio Engineers could be consummated on terms satisfactory to the board of directors of the corporation and the membership there of, and"
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Today in the United States there are about 700,000 engineers and scientists, compared with about 2,000 at the time of Thomas Edison. Of these, between 5,000 and 50,000 are technical managers compared with about 1/100 this number in the early 1900's."
"Some of the technological advances to be expected within the next 5 years are predicted on the basis of present developments and trends. Among the fields considered are communications, data, detection and identification, and navigation and vehicle guidance"
"Our colleges and universities find themselves in the paradoxical situation of financial needs that are rapidly becoming acute at a time when their usefulness has never been greater. An urgent plea is made for larger grants and heavier endowments, especially from business corporations, if our institutions of higher learning are to meet the needs of an exploding population and the technological challenge from the Soviet Union"
"Although the vacuum switch concept is more than 30 years old, reliable high-power vacuum interrupters did not become a reality until recently. In this article, the historical background of these vacuum interrupters is given"
"Studies are currently being made of the high-frequency noise caused by extraterrestrial radiations. A program of investigation is discussed and the design and construction of equipment used to study these noise phenomena are described"
"Modern society rests on a technological base created by engineering and science that has profoundly affected our economic, social, spiritual, and physical environments. We stand on the threshold of an “expansion of our humanity.” To pass over, a value system is required that strongly emphasizes the “why” and “what” as well as the “how” of technology"
"Practical thermoelectric generators producing useful amounts of power began to appear feasible in the late 1940's. Since that time, much progress has been made in both the research laboratory and in the product development laboratory. Three recent developments reviewed here show how this technological progress is leading toward products of the future."
"A new germanium-silicon alloy developed in Navy-sponsored research by Radio Corporation of America is said to produce more electricity directly from high-temperature heat on a practical basis than any other known material."
"After nearly 40 years of research and development involving an expenditure of $5 million, the Switchgear and Control Div. of the General Electric Company announced and demonstrated, on November 15, the performance of a vacuum-type power circuit recloser at Philadelphia, Pa."
"The application of nuclear energy to the field of power generation is coming of age. Many new nuclear power plants are nearing completion; others are beginning to take shape. Three different projects are reviewed here."
"Too often an auditorium is built at great expense only to prove acoustically unsatisfactory — a situation which science may have made no longer a problem. A method has been devised at Bell Telephone Laboratories whereby the acoustics of a proposed auditorium or concert hall can be listened to and evaluated before the hall is in its final form, or even before its construction has been started."
"Because a light beam emitted by a laser has a theoretical capacity of 10,000 times that of the best known radio link, the laser is under intense study at the U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory, Fort Monmouth, N. J. One such light beam could carry more communications channels than all the nation's long-distance telephone lines combined."
"A device known as “Shoebox,” developed at International Business Machine Corp.'s Advanced Systems Development Div. in San Jose, Calif., recognizes up to 16 words — including 10 digits — spoken into a microphone. When words such as “plus,” “minus,” and “total” are spoken, an adding machine is instructed to calculate and print out correct answers to simple arithmetic problems."
"After years of experimentation with radar, a more accurate and simpler method of remotely sending wind velocity than any now in use has been developed. The procedure, announced by the Midwest Research Institute, is known as the EMAC system (for electromagnetic, acoustic probe); it developed out of a project for the Bell Helicopter Company."
"Nitinol is the name of a new class of nonmagnetic alloys developed by the Navy. It is expected to benefit a wide range of people, from the underwater demolition expert working on mines to the housewife working in her kitchen. Based on the intermetallic compound TnNi (a combination of titanium and nickel), it is corrosion resistant, and can be hardened to 62 Rockwell “C,” almost the hardness of tool steel. Tested up to 43 foot-pounds' impact strength, Nitinol differs from other alloys in that its toughness increases as temperatures decrease, yet it is suitable for use up to about 1,200 F. With a specific gravity of 6.45, it offers strength without adding weight, an advantage in aircraft, tools, etc. Its very high mechanical vibration capacity at room temperature decreases rapidly as temperature is increased."
"A locomotive of wide range and notably lower operating and maintenance cost is announced as a general-purpose combination of high speed and heavy drag. General Motors' GP30 has four motors and four axles, and is rated at 2,250 hp for traction. With about 30 structural and operation improvements, all aimed at increasing the locomotive's economic value, the GP30's increased capacity permits operation of present freight schedules with fewer units — two new units replace three older, 1,500-hp units. Its prime mover is the 567-D3 diesel engine that operates at high altitudes with little or no reduction in rated horsepower."
"One of the most destructive forces likely to damage jet planes or missiles is sound. For testing products to be used in such devices, Goodyear Aircraft Corp. has constructed a huge noise-maker to duplicate exactly the sound vibrations that can, at 150 db of sound, damage or even mutilate a piece of steel. The sound test chamber is part of an environmental testing facility at Goodyear built at an over-all cost of more than $1 million."
"The diesel-electric locomotive is considered the standard motive-power unit in the United States. But railroad mergers, competitive pressures, and technological improvements combine to make necessary new emphasis on higher horsepower, greater reliability, and new efforts toward automation."
"Aerospace Telemetry, H. L. Stiltz (editor). Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N. J., 1961; 505 pages, 6¼ by 9¼ inches, bound; $15.00. Intended for engineers in the telemetry field and for advanced electrical engineering students, this volume is comprised of separate chapters by various authorities, on the latest techniques covered in the Inter Range Instrumentation Group Telemetry Standards: pulse code modulation, data sampling, predetection recording, and high-speed PAM/FM. IRIG Standards are given as an appendix."
"ABC's of ultrasonics, by Alan Andrews, gives the reader an over-all look at ultrasonics, the science of sound. The first chapter explains the frequency range of ultrasonics, the terminology, and the two kinds of wave behavior, cavitation and echo ranging. Applications such as cleaning, degassing, thickness and distance measurement, testing, machining, welding, soldering, medical uses, alarm systems, and liquid-level indicators are discussed. Production of ultrasonic waves and the FCC regulations pertaining to ultrasonics are covered. The 96-page book is priced at $1.95 from Howard W. Sams & Co., Inc., 1720 E. 38 St., Indianapolis 6, Ind."
"The publication of the translated Tables of Contents and reviews of articles from the translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications is continued in this issue of Electrical Engineering. The translated issues of the three Russian journals are published by the AIEE with the co-operation of Royer and Roger, Inc. Normal publication of translations will take place 18 weeks after the appearance of the original text."
"Each year, about 5,000 AIEE members, their families, and guests attend the Winter General Meeting. They come for many reasons, all of which will be valid in 1962. The meeting will take place from January 28 through February 2, in the Statler Hilton Hotel, New York, N. Y. In 1962, there are three big extra reasons for attending: 1. The first Electrical Engineering Exposition will be held, with 100 selected educational presentations of the newest applications in all branches of electricity and electronics. 2. The new United Engineering Center will be open for inspection. 3. The proposed amalgamation of AIEE with IRE will be the subject of formal and informal discussion. These extras justify the expectation that the meeting will set a new peak in technical information content, collateral interest, and enthusiasm."
"On Jan. 29, 1962, an industry-wide electrical engineering exposition, the first ever sponsored by the Institute, will open its doors at the New York Coliseum. Approximately 100 exhibitors, many of whom are leading firms in their fields, have taken booths. Over 155 specific categories of electrical-electronic equipment and materials will be on display for the 10,000 electrical and electronic engineers, scientists, and top management executives from American industry who are expected to attend. The exposition will form part of the activities of the Institute's 1962 Winter General Meeting, Jan. 28–Feb. 2, 1962, at the Statler Hilton Hotel in New York City."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 4th Electrical Insulation Conference will be held February 19–22 at the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D. C."
"The 3rd Symposium on Engineering Aspects of Magnetohydrodynamics is to be held at the University of Rochester, Rochester, N. Y., on March 28 and 29. This meeting is being sponsored by AIEE, Institute of The Aerospace Sciences, Institute of Radio Engineers, and the University of Rochester. The program will be concerned with plasmas in the presence of a magnetic field and, in particular, with their engineering aspects."
"Executive and committee responsibilities for the 1962 Spring Joint Computer Conference and Exhibition in San Francisco, Calif., May 1–3, have been announced. The technical program and exhibits will be at the Fairmont Hotel."
"The Symposium on Thermionic Power Conversion, sponsored jointly by five technical societies and the U. S. Department of Defense, has been scheduled for May 14–16 at the Antlers Hotel in Colorado Springs, Colo."
"The 19th meeting of the International Conference on Large Electric Systems will take place in Paris, France, on May 16–26."
"Each month. Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers sold at General and District Meetings. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 50€ each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Please order by number and send remittance to : AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents of Electrical Engineering for the calendar year 1961. It includes all special articles and authors, all news items, and all items published on AIEE technical program papers, whether they appear in the form of a digest, essentially full text, or full text. The technical program papers are indexed also by both title and author."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Total contracts amounting to about $3.5 million have been awarded to the Bulova Watch Co. by the Sandia Corp. for the production of several types of miniature electromechanical timers for various weapon systems. The timer is the size of a cigarette package, weighs less than 8 ounces, and has beat rate of 60 beats per second, compared to the rate of 5 beats per second of the conventional wrist watch."
"The task of interconnecting many telephone systems and subsystems to provide the present direct distance dialing network has been accomplished despite the problems of overcoming inherent incompatibilities. As a result of this network's success, it is expected that in the future there will be a world-wide integrated network for general use"
"Theoretical and experimental results of incoherent scattering are discussed within the context of the phenomenon of radio-wave scattering by spatial fluctuations in electron density. Emphasis is placed on the concepts involved in measuring properties of the upper ionosphere, such as electron density, temperature, electron drifts, and the strength and direction of the magnetic field"
"The results of an investigation of electric power transmission over distances of 400 to 1,000 miles have strengthened the conviction that the use of large blocks of power over these distances is technically feasible. It is hoped that this report will stir discussion and expressions of opinion from others on this subject"
"A simple static inverter circuit consisting of two tunnel diodes and a transformer wound on a square-loop magnetic core is described. This circuit provides a practical method for stepping up voltages of the order of 0.2 volt to practical values and is proposed for use with thermoelectric, thermionic, or fuel cell generators. The output is a very good a-c square wave"
"An aggregate audience of 800,000 resident students is reached by 137 college radio stations via a closed-circuit medium known as AM carrier-current broadcasting. Fundamental FCC rules governing the carrier-current systems, some basic system problems, and several examples of operational systems are presented"
"The method of precision angle encoding described utilizes a magnetic multiple resolver for electrical shaft angle multiplication. A system of this type is capable of 360,000 quanta of output for one revolution of the shaft to be measured. The equipment is characterized by functional simplicity and reliability"
"Potential applications for superconductors exist in transformers, transmission lines, generators, motors, circuit breakers, and rectifiers. Superconducting electromagnets also promise savings in power and weight when used with controlled thermonuclear fusion devices and magnetohydrodynamic generators. Discussion, however, is limited to recent developments in power apparatus"
"A great deal of knowledge of the structure of the atomic nucleus has been gleaned during the past 30 years from accelerators yielding particles of energies up to hundreds of millions of electron volts — but many mysteries remain. “Particle physicists” are now investigating the “fundamental particles” using protons or electrons accelerated to energies of billions of electron volts"
"The U. S. S. Enterprise, the world's largest ship and the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in history, has the largest and most compact assortment of electric and electronic equipment on any ship in the world."
"During the 11-week period from April 19 to July 7, 1961, the Lincoln Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology made a series of 32 radar measurements of reflections from the sun. This was the first time that regular measurements have been possible over an extended period. Results of the measurements are reported in the December 1961 issue of the Journal of Geophysical Research."
"The National Aeronautics and Space Administration's world-wide Project Mercury tracking network has the assignment of computing and predicting the flight of capsules from launch through orbit to impact. The network accomplishes its objective through use of a global complex of computers, radars, and communications equipment tied together in a unified system at the Goddard Space Flight Center near Greenbelt, Md."
"Recent announcements from Bell Telephone Laboratories and from Kollsman Instrument Corporation are indicative of the continuing active interest in laser and maser development work."
"A car which automatically makes station stops, opens its doors to receive and discharge passengers, and accelerates quickly to programmed speeds between stations, accomplished all these things in a demonstration test run recently. General Electric's new electronically controlled car named “Tomorrow” is provided with automation through a speed-distance regulator on board the car that makes all the decisions necessary to conform to system requirements."
"In an undertaking of such vast complexity as space travel the more that is known of the conditions of flight beforehand the better. The astronaut must be an expert on his first flight — or it may be his last. Flight conditions simulated realistically have been attempted by various groups, among them Ling-Temco-Vought, Inc., of Dallas, Tex. Their manned aerospace simulator is a moving-base device capable of performing the various phases of missions including launch, orbit, rendezvous with space station or satellite, mid-course guidance, re-entry, landing approach, and landing. It will also be used for physiological studies on space pilots, for determining effects the numerous space and vehicle stresses will have on man and his ability to perform his tasks, and for charting safety limits for space flights."
"A liquid-metal collector system is used instead of sliding brushes in a new type of d-c generator. The new device, developed by the General Electric Company, produces extremely high direct current at low voltage."
"The biggest electro-steel furnace built by ASEA, Sweden's leading electrical engineering company, has been delivered recently to the Norwegian Iron and Steel Works, Norsk Jernverk, Mo i Rana."
"Electric machinery, 2d Edition, A. E. Fitzgerald, Charles Kingsley, Jr. McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., 330 W. 42 St., New York 36, N. Y., 1961; 568 pages, 6¼ by 9¼ inches, bound; $10.75. The first edition has been revised, and is now divided into three parts; the first part is devoted to the principles underlying energy storage in magnetic and electrostatic fields, linear magnetically coupled systems, electromechanical transducers, and rotating machines. The second and third parts present complementary treatments of rotating machinery. The second, based on dynamic coupled-circuit theory and dq variables, leads to the dynamic equations for machine performance. The third is concerned with the machine as a physical entity intended for a variety of engineering applications."
"The great mathematicians, by H. W. Turnbull, gives brief biographies of great mathematicians from the 18th century B.C. to the present. Emphasis is on the background of the times, the lives of the men, and the uses of the discoveries, rather than on the symbolism of mathematics itself. The purpose of the book as expressed in the introduction is to show “how a mathematician thinks, how his imagination, as well as his reason, leads him to new aspects of the truth.” Priced at $3.50, the book is available from New York University Press, Washington Square, New York 3, N. Y."
"The publication of the translated Tables of Contents and reviews of articles from the translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications is continued in this issue of Electrical Engineering. The translated issues of the three Russian journals are published by the AIEE with the co-operation of Royer and Roger, Inc. Normal publication of translations will take place 18 weeks after the appearance of the original text."
"The 9th annual International Solid-State Circuits Conference, to be held February 14–16, will feature a 46-paper program during 10 daytime sessions at the University of Pennsylvania and 11 informal evening discussion sessions at the Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa."
"In planning the technical program for the AIEE Northeastern District Meeting to be held May 9–11, in Boston, Mass., certain concepts were developed by the technical program committee."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A one-day Symposium on Automatic Control will be held April 10 at the Cohen Arts Center, Tufts University, Boston, Mass."
"Papers are being solicited for the 2nd Rochester Conference on Data Acquisition and Processing in Medicine and Biology which will be held July 18–19. The conference is cosponsored by AIEE and the University of Rochester in Rochester, N. Y."
"About 75 persons recently attended an all-day session on “Electromechanical Energy Conversion,” sponsored jointly by AIEE, IRE, and the American Society for Engineering Education. Seven AIEE papers were presented, and Prof. A. D. Bailey reported on the returns of an ASEE questionnaire."
"Prof. Cornelius Wandmacher, University of Cincinnati faculty member since 1951, has been named dean of the university's College of Engineering, effective September 1. He will succeed Dr. H. K. Justice, who will resign the deanship to give his full attention to teaching and research as professor of mathematics."
"W. L. Chadwick, vice-president of the Southern California Edison Company, outlined his observations on European power practices at the December 12 dinner meeting of the Los Angeles Section, AIEE. The talk was illustrated by colored slides showing the installations visited."
"Progress towards official unification of the engineering profession came to a standstill during the year ending September 30, 1961, according to W. L. Everitt, president for 1958–61 of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development, whose message appears in the 29th annual report of ECPD."
"Establishment of the Philip Sporn Chair in Electric Power Systems Engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N. Y., has been announced by Dr. R. G. Folsom, president of Rensselaer Polytechnic."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 50€ each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $10.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Although the computer industry is only 15 years old, it has made possible many dramatic technological achievements. Computer systems are capable of magnifying many times the output and effectiveness of our scientists, engineers, businessmen, and government leaders. Some of the problems and challenges facing this dynamic industry are outlined"
"Can man be replaced by machines? How does man's presence affect present-day control systems? An analysis and synthesis of a sampled-data model of the human operator involves three basic problems: the designing and testing of a sampler, synthesis of the various blocks contained in the sampled-data model, and analyzing the model using z transforms and modified z transforms"
"Static power supplies are being used increasingly to provide adjustable speeds for industrial applications. Among the advantages are elimination of rotating equipment, low maintenance, high efficiency, flexibility, compactness, and adaptability to automation"
"The basic control loop for modern gearless high-speed elevators is discussed from the standpoint of a high-gain feedback control system. New transducers provide a rapid and smooth dynamic response. Accurate floor leveling is obtained by conversion from a velocity to a position-regulating system near the floor. Outstanding system performance has been demonstrated in tests of full-scale installations"
"At present, three or jour types of hydrogen-oxygen fuel cells are at an advanced stage of development. One of these, the ion-exchange membrane fuel cell, is under an intensive program of research and development. It has been scaled-up and built into batteries suitable for use in practical hardware. Current performance indicates that costs can be reduced within range of selected industrial applications within the next several years"
"“For his inspiring leadership in education, for his contributions in the fields of electrical insulation, electrical measurements, and electrical science applied to medicine, and especially for his investigations of the effects of electricity on the human body with the successful development of countershock for the cure of fibrillation of the heart.”"
"The award of the Edison Medal to any individual immediately sets him apart. He becomes one of a select few and there is an automatic implication of a distinguished and unusual career. The task of one who attempts to present the career of the medalist, though pleasant, is not easy. Webster tells us that “career” is “the course of a person's life, especially in some particular pursuit.” It is clear that our medalist's “particular pursuit” has been electrical engineering, but within that particular pursuit he has certainly followed several related pursuits. Without belaboring the point, may I arbitrarily decide to consider that he has had two major professional interests; one, as an educator and one as a research worker. In a most interesting manner, which 1 will illuminate later, these rwo major interests have a common thread, that of service to mankind. But let us deal with our subject by means of a chronological spectrum."
"Having served as a member and as chairman of the Edison Medal Committee, I am deeply sensible of the great honor that you have conferred on me. I cannot tell you how much this Medal means to me, nor can I tell you how much I appreciate this recognition of my work by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Optimum loading of brushes in old and new electric machinery is reviewed in view of advances in equipment design and carbon-brush manufacture in recent years. Poor machine operation as a result of either too light or too heavy loading is discussed. Problems involved are of concern to machine designers and operating engineers"
"A new bag of tricks, figuratively and actually, is being used to perfect the testing of advanced versions of the Navy's submarine-launched Polaris missile. It is called Operation Snare, and is designed to retrieve the missile in flight before it falls back into the sea after launching with possible damage to itself."
"The bag, made largely of nylon webbing, is suspended by a crane a few feet above the ocean's surface at the test site near San Clemente Island off the coast of Southern California. With its bottom open and waiting directly over the launch tube on the ocean's floor, the big grab-bag catches the missile as it breaks the surface. Large drawstrings immediately close, capturing the 15-ton test vehicle in mid-air."
"A ruby optical maser emitting a coherent red beam has demonstrated continuous operation at Bell Telephone Laboratories. It is the first solid-state optical maser to emit continuous coherent visible light. This advance resulted from the development of a radically new way to excite the master crystal which gives a “pumping” intensity five times greater than that obtained from previous continuous optical maser pumps."
"The Army has placed a 9-ton space communication antenna reflector atop its supporting steel tower at Camp Roberts, Calif., completing installation of ground station antennas required for Project Advent."
"Seismic soundings of ice, now widely made, are accurate but are also laborious, expensive, and time-consuming. A new method involving radio, being developed by the Army Signal Corps to plumb polar ice, has been successfully used to measure the depth of the Brae Glacier in the far-north region of Canada, about 20 miles south of Ellsmere Island. Radio soundings can be made quickly and with relatively simple equipment."
"An experimental superconducting magnet capable of producing a persistent field in excess of 45,000 gauss is announced by Varian Associates. Developed by Dr. Harry Weaver, research scientist of the company's Instrument Division, the new magnet achieves its unusually high field strength through the phenomenon of superconductivity at temperatures near 4 degrees Kelvin (−270 C)."
"When amounts of power in the kilowatt range or greater are needed for long orbital flights, nuclear energy may be the only practical source. To confirm the value of nuclear energy in this connection, Lockheed Missiles & Space Company plans to test nuclear-electrical power systems functioning in satellites in space. The SNAP 2 and SNAP 10A (systems for nuclear auxiliary power), currently under development by the Atomic Energy Commission, will be tested. The project, known as SNAPSHOT, is under direct supervision of the Air Force Space Systems Division."
"Scrutiny of heart action is the subject of four announcements just received."
"A new thickness gauge, intended for use in industry for inspection and quality control, is at the prototype stage. Called an electron probe thickness gauge, it rapidly and nondestructively measures electroplates, ceramic enamels, and organic coatings. It detects deviations from specifications as small as 1 per cent in platings, sheet, films, or laminations. The chemical composition of the layer need be known only roughly."
"A laser with peak power of more than 3 million watts has been developed at the Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory, Fort Monmouth, N.J."
"In your November issue, p. 876, you describe a method for television without scanning lines which was shown at the Berlin Radio Fair. The impression of a homogenous picture is thereby achieved by high frequency wobbling of the electron beam. It should be taken into consideration that such is possible only by means of an extensive technical investment in order to satisfy the demands of the German Federal Postal Authorities in respect to the assurances required regarding frequency and sweep radiation."
"Electronic amplifier circuits, J. M. Pettit, M. M. McWhorter. McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., 330 W. 42 St., New York 36, N. Y., 1961; 6 × 9¼ inches, bound; $9.75. The fundamental principles underlying amplifier design are reviewed at length, with a parallel treatment of tubes and transistors as amplifying elements given. The first part of the book is a review of active elements, vacuum tubes and transistors, and their use in simple situations. The second part deals with the design of “fast” low-pass amplifiers from the pole-zero viewpoint, and various analogies to gain functions. The final section, on amplifier measurements, is included to clear up some of the problems common to amplifier design and to the necessary testing of the resulting amplifier."
"Principals of neurodynamics: Perceptrons in the theory of brain mechanisms sets forth the principals, motivations, and accomplishment of perceptron theory. It also provides a text for those who are interested in a serious study of neurodynamics. Part I reviews the background, basic sources of data, concepts, and methodology to be employed in the study of perceptrons. Part II deals with the theory of 3-layer series-coupled perceptrons, on which most work has been done to date. Part III treats the theory of multilayer and cross-coupled perceptrons. Part IV is concerned with speculative models and principals for future analysis. The appendixes serve as an aid for cross-referencing equations, definitions, and experimental designs which are described in different chapters. This 636-page report is priced at $6.50 from Spartan Books, 6411 Chillum Place, N.W., Washington 12, D. C."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-operation of Royer and Roger, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department∗, 41 East 28th Street, New York 16, N. Y."
"Tentative broad outlines of the way in which the consolidation of AIEE and IRE might be put into operation were discussed at a Town Meeting during the AIEE Winter General Meeting on January 31. P. E. Haggerty. IRE President, and W. H. Chase, AIEE President, participated in the discussion as did AIEE and IRE members serving on subcommittees that have been studying various aspects of the merger. Although not officially approved by either Board, the following picture of the proposed principles of consolidation emerged from the discussion."
"The general session of the Winter General Meeting was held Monday afternoon, January 29, in the Grand Ballroom of the Statler Hilton Hotel, with R. W. Gillette, general chairman of the meeting, presiding."
"For the first time in the 77 years of its existence, the AIEE held an Electrical Engineering Exposition in connection with its Winter General Meeting."
"The AIEE Sections Representatives Meeting was held on January 30 at the Statler Hilton Hotel in New York City during the Winter General Meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The proposed merger with IRE occupied the larger part of the Board's attention on the last day of the 1962 Winter General Meeting in New York. After hearing the subject discussed at an open meeting on Wednesday night, and reviewing the newly revised draft of “Principles of Consolidation for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers” (IEEE) prepared by the Eight-Man AIEE/IRE Committee, the Board voted approval with suggestions for modification of a few points. The Principles approved by the Board are given in brief form on pp. 222 of this issue. Intensive work by the Board and the joint AIEE-IRE committees will continue in preparation for a concurrent meeting of the Boards of the two Institutes on March 8. If the two Boards recommend consolidation, a membership vote will probably take place at the AIEE Annual Meeting set for June 18, 1962, in Denver, Colo."
"The 25th Anniversary of Eta Kappa Nu Awards to outstanding young electrical engineers was celebrated at the annual dinner held on January 29. Attendance was greater than at any previous annual dinner."
"The AIEE Nominating Committee, at its meeting held January 29, selected the following official nominees for election to Institute offices for terms beginning August 1, 1962:"
"About 3,000 delegates and members of their families are expected to attend the Summer Meeting of AIEE in Denver, Colo., June 17–21, according to early estimates. The various committees are planning activities for the whole family, from the chief engineer to the youngest junior engineer. Convention headquarters will be the new Denver Hilton Hotel in the heart of the “mile-high-city.”"
"The AIEE South Central District 13 Meeting will be held April 4–6 in Memphis, Tenn. The Hotel Peabody will be headquarters for the meeting. An ample number of rooms are available for delegates and their families."
"Boston, Mass., surrounded by the Route 128 electronic and aerospace industries, will be the setting for the AIEE North Eastern District Meeting which will be held at the Hotel Statler Hilton, May 9–11."
"The 19th annual meeting of the American Power Conference will be held March 27–29 at the Sherman House in Chicago, Ill. More than 100 papers will be presented during 30 sessions and several speakers will be featured."
"A special AIEE technical conference on EHV communications, control, and relaying will be held March 14–16 at the Baker Hotel, Dallas, Tex. Sponsors of the conference include the Power System Communications Committee, Relays Committee, and Substation Committee."
"The 12th in a series of international symposia organized by the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, devoted this year to “The Mathematical Theory of Automata,” will be held April 24–26 at the United Engineering Center in New York City."
"The AIEE Joint District Meeting of Mid-America District 7 and Southwest District 15 will take place at the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel in St. Louis, Mo., on April 30–May 2. Plans for the meeting are progressing under the leadership of G. P. Gamble, executive vice-president of the Union Electric Company. “Electrical Engineering — Master and Servant of Technological Progress” will be the theme of the meeting."
"AIEE's first Institute Technical Group, that on automatic control, has been launched. H. T. Marcy spark-plugged the organizational effort and R. W. Slade did the editorial work in preparing Volume 1, No. 1, of “ITG on Automatic Control.” It was mailed about mid-January to those who had signified their intention of joining the ITG. Additional copies were run off and mailed by the ITG Co-ordination Committee as a promotional show-piece. When this article was written, significant statistics about the response to the billing for group fees, which were included with the mailed publication, were unavailable."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Some 60 technical papers dealing with theoretical and applied aspects of automatic control will be included at the Joint Automatic Control Conference, to be held June 27–29 at New York University, University Heights, New York, N. Y. The conference is sponsored by five cooperating societies of which AIEE is one."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 504 each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $10.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Believed to be the world's largest electric power generating unit, the 475,000-kw Unit 1 at the Breed Plant has gone into commercial operation. The plant, owned and operated by Indiana & Michigan Electric Company of the American Electric Power System, is located in Sullivan County, Indiana On the basis of present technology and economics, the relative importance of the chief sources of electric energy in future years is predicted. It is strongly believed that nuclear energy will perform its best function for our society if it is allowed to find its natural economic place in the total energy picture"
"An effort is being made at the present time to have the codes of ethics of the various engineering bodies reviewed, brought up to date, and more widely circulated. Procedures suggested for achieving these aims are outlined in this article"
"“Touch-Tone Calling,” a system for initiating telephone calls by means of voice-frequency tones controlled by actuating buttons, is now in service on a trial basis. The resultant marked improvement in speed and ease of use appeal strongly to telephone users. Results of field tests of system feasibility are discussed"
"Rates charged for electric service are established pursuant to lengthy and complex public hearings before regulatory commissions. Factors that are considered in the design of individual rate schedules are discussed and five basic rate forms are demonstrated"
"The circuit of this 1,000-cycle transistor oscillator has a high degree of amplitude stability achieved with a circuit simplicity that results in small size, low cost, low power consumption, and high reliability. Transmission characteristics are such that the output amplitude will not vary by more than 0.03 db over the temperature range of 40 to 120 F and over a supply voltage range of &pm;10 per cent of nominal"
"Demands for “50 voice facilities that must present transmission standards and remain in service for 1 year” cause consternation in the communications industry. A portable communication system, developed by the Ohio Bell Telephone Company, is described that utilizes available transistorized carrier equipment and video microwave units"
"A harmonic excitation system, as the name implies, utilizes the harmonic power developed in a generator for self-excitation. This power is picked up by a separate stator winding, and is controlled and rectified by means of a magnetic amplifier and silicon rectifiers. Factory tests indicate extremely rapid response to system disturbances"
"Infrared techniques in the instrumentation for space exploration are described, with emphasis on satellite meteorological projects. These developments are only the beginning in a field that is growing rapidly as we approach the reality of interplanetary travel"
"Disassembled view of the experimental high-speed magnetic thin-film memory developed at IBM's Zurich Research Laboratory. The eight squares (center) are magnetic thin-film substrates, each of which contains 2,304 information bits. These squares measure 2 by 2 inches. The driving and sensing lines of etched copper foil are shown curled away from the 8 substrates"
"Three recent announcements in the computer field show significant progress in the endless search for higher and higher operating speeds. One is a fast computer memory; another, a pumped tunnel-diode transistor module; and the third an electro-optical transistor."
"Details of an automatic system capable of reading 56 different characters at a rate of 1,200 characters per second have been announced. A report of the development appears in the January-February issue of Research for Industry, a Stanford Research Institute publication."
"Jet airliners and military aircraft now share with industry the honors of jet power. Successful completion of a 15-month prototype run of the first industrial jet-powered gas turbine took place recently. The experiment, which saw the gas turbine mated to a natural gas pipeline compressor, appeared to prove the practicality of adapting jet engines to stationary industrial power."
"In an effort to help modernize present methods of identifying moving freight cars, Union Switch and Signal Div. of Westinghouse Air Brake Co. has under development an automatic freight car identification system. The system is an optical reflection arrangement which uses infrared light for illumination. This feature insures optimum reliability because of the superior ability of infrared rays to penetrate fog or other adverse weather conditions."
"To conquer the mysteries of outer space necessitates having a piece of it at hand — or a workable facsimile. Huge vacuum chambers have been devised to supply scientists with the right environment, in which they may test the effect of the sun's intensity."
"In fusing parts for triplesonic aircraft, it is necessary to produce a narrow weld with as little shrinkage and distortion as possible. A portable electron beam welder that literally fuses without the use of a filler material has been developed by engineers of North American Aviation's Los Angeles Division."
"In the mail this month are several items of interest on various aspects of the educational field. The following paragraphs briefly summarize these reports."
"Scientists of the Westinghouse Electric Corp. are experimenting with the building in of special “rigidizing” characteristics into fabrics to make them suitable for satellite duty. They believe that such materials will greatly facilitate the use of giant solar reflectors and balloon-like communications structures."
"In the February 1962 issue of Electrical Engineering, it was reported incorrectly that Supronics Corp. had signed an exclusive contract for all electrical construction in connection with buildings and other projects of the 1964–65 World's Fair in New York City."
"Advances in electronics and electron physics, volume 15. L. Marton (editor). Academic Press, Inc., 111 Fifth Avenue, New York 3, N.Y., 1961; 412 pages, 6¼ by 9¼ inches, bound; $11.50. The latest volume in a standard series, this work surveys atomic beam frequency standards, masers and other quantum mechanical amplifiers, relaxation in diluted paramagnetic salts at very low temperatures, millimeter wave techniques, the distribution of electrons in the ionosphere, and the application of the autodyne to paramagnetic resonance. Extensive references are appended to each paper."
"AIEE transactions. These out-of-print volumes of the Institute's Transactions are being reproduced and will be available shortly. Volumes 1–4 are priced at $10 each, volumes 5–8 at $25 each, and volumes 9 and 10 at $30 each; the price for clothbound volumes is $2.50 extra per volume. The reproduction may be ordered from the Johnson Reprint Corp., 111 Fifth Ave., New York 3, N.Y."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-operation of Royer and Roger, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department∗, 41 East 28th Street, New York 16, N. Y."
"The AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting will be held at the Hotel Van Orman in Fort Wayne, Ind., April 25–27. Fort Wayne is a city famous for its diversified industries and long history of pioneering and achievements in electrical industry. This 3-day meeting has been arranged to provide technical sessions of wide interest with a full-scale program of luncheons, ladies' activities, and a dinner dance. The technical sessions will be augmented with three inspection trips. Special features include Electronics sessions under the joint sponsorship of AIEE and the Fort Wayne Section of IRE, as well as a Student Paper Contest."
"Electrical Engineering — Master and Servant of Technological Progress is the theme for the Joint Mid-America District 7 and Southwest District 15 meeting to be held in St. Louis, Mo., April 30-May 2. Meeting headquarters will be the centrally located Chase Hotel facing Forest Park. The meeting will include a general session, 26 technical sessions, two Student Paper sessions, and a complement of inspection trips and entertainment. The principal speaker at the opening session will be C. H. Linder, Past President AIEE."
"“Power, Petroleum, and Chemicals — Thru Electrical Engineering” will be the theme of the AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting which will be held at the Hotel DuPont on May 7–9. There will be 65 papers in 17 sessions, 3 inspection trips, 2 social events, 2 scenic trips, and a General Session."
"The AIEE North Eastern District Meeting will be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel in Boston, Mass., on May 9–11. The program will include technical papers and inspection tours covering the electrical frontiers of today."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"ADA, Management Orientation in Data Processing Seminar, Apr. 9–11, Sheraton-Blackstone Hotel, Chicago, Ill. Write to A. D. Meacham, American Data Processing, Inc., 2200 Book Tower, Detroit 26, Mich."
"The 1962 Nuclear Congress which will be held at New York's Statler Hilton Hotel June 4–7 will provide an up-to-date review of practical engineering problems based on experience with operating nuclear reactors. The Congress is expected to become a practical guide to the future of nuclear energy in the power field, according to Engineers Joint Council, sponsor for the Congress."
"The AIEE Summer General Meeting, to be held June 17–22 in Denver, Colo., at the Hotel Denver Hilton, is expected to be one of the most successful and best attended Summer Meetings in Institute history. By March 1, inquiries regarding the meeting had been received from Mexico, Canada, both coasts of the United States, and points in between."
"The International Federation of Automatic Control has invited authors to present papers at the 2nd IFAC Congress which will take place September 1963 in Basle, Switzerland."
"The Rubber and Plastics Industries Committee of AIEE will hold its 14th Annual Rubber and Plastics Conference in Akron, Ohio, at the Sheraton Hotel on April 9–10."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted by AIEE Transactions and will be open for written discussion until April 27. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, AIEE, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y., on or before April 27."
"Growing efforts to standardize the electrical components used in packaging machinery will be revealed at a technical conference sponsored by the AIEE Packaging Industry Subcommittee in the Shelbourne Hotel, Atlantic City, N.J. on May 7–8."
"The Boards of Directors of AIEE and IRE, meeting concurrently in their respective headquarters with special telephone communication, succeeded in working out and unanimously approving an agreement to merge the two Institutes."
"The 1962 International Conference on Precision Electromagnetic Measurements will be held August 14–16 at the Boulder Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards, Boulder, Colo."
"On January 31, during the AIEE Winter General Meeting, President W. H. Chase appeared on WNBC-TV and the NBC-TV Network. His presence on the morning program called “Today” resulted in a discussion with the program's moderator, Frank Blair, of several high-interest topics in the electrical engineering field."
"A. L. Frisiani (fourth from left) of the University of Michigan is the 1962 winner of the Volta Scholarship presented during the AIEE Winter General Meeting in New York. The scholarship was established in 1927 by the Italy-American Society of New York to grant scholarships to outstanding young Italian electrical engineers for a year of study in this country. Others shown are: (left to right) H. S. Osborne, a Volta Scholarship trustee; R. S. Gardner, secretary of Volta Memorial Fund; G. L. Collina, 1961 Voltage Scholarship winner, and P. L. Abetti, chairman of the Volta Scholarship trustees"
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 50€ each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $10.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"You have, or soon will have, the proxy form with which to vote on the question of merger with IRE."
"In any enterprise that relies heavily on technology, the engineer must be a part of the management team. The best way to enhance the status of engineers and the profession is to increase the value of each engineer's contribution to the company in which he works"
"Power supplies consisting of solar cells and rechargeable batteries were designed and integrated into a system for furnishing continuous, long-duration electric power to the instrumentation aboard the various Juno II satellites. For the shorter-duration satellites, boosted by Juno II vehicles, mercury batteries alone were used as power supplies"
"The design of plants for nuclear-powered merchant vessels is predicated on the need for an uninterrupted source of power. The installation of main, auxiliary, and emergency plants, use of automatic devices for generator synchronizing and power-source transfer, and application of special interior communications and alarm systems, unique to nuclear-powered vessels, effectively eliminates the probability of occurrence of complete power loss on the N.S. Savannah"
"A survey is presented of the organization, growth, and resources of the power industry, with emphasis on the hydroelectric and thermal power resources. Design and construction, transmission systems, and manufacture of generating equipment are some of the facets discussed. Observations are based on a visit in 1960 by several Canadian power utility engineers and managerial personnel"
"The problem of integrated telecommunications in the Arctic is considered in the light of the increasing accessibility of this region. Among the various possibilities discussed, tropospheric scatter and submarine cable appear to be the most effective techniques. It is also suggested that a submarine cable link Great Britain, Thule, and Barrow (and later Hawaii)"
"Active devices make possible the design of impedance-measuring instruments with important new features by performing such operations as isolation, phase inversion, and integration. The disadvantages accompanying such devices are, in the main, overcome by the use of multistage transistor-feedback amplifiers. Several measuring circuits, including a new incremental inductance bridge, are discussed"
"Because of such forces as a rapid load growth, economic pressures, and limitations on size and weight, the demands of industry on materials and electrical facilities continually expand. To meet these demands, thermal evaluation tests and sound temperature classification for materials and equipment are necessary"
"Recently completed horn antenna, 177 feet long, is part of tracking system for Project Telstar. Horn will transmit signals to, and receive signals from, the satellite, a “space radio relay tower”"
"During the remainder of 1962 a series of experiments in the use of space satellites for relaying microwave radio signals over long distances will be carried out. Experiments will be based on the knowledge that a satellite at several thousand miles' altitude can provide a path of straight lines at microwave frequencies between very distant places as long as the satellite is above the horizon of the places concerned."
"In servicing world air travel reservations, various harassments confront customer, airline, and travel agent alike, and any device that will reduce them is a step forward in efficiency. Two of the large airlines, Eastern Air Lines and Pan American World Airways report plans for improvement in service in this area. Eastern's system is already in action. It is designed to process 30,000 transactions per hour and is capable of expansion. Up-to-the-second seat inventories of all EAL flights for a 365-day period are maintained by the new system, which co-ordinates reservation activity in 42 cities."
"A 450-kv power supply for powering and testing high-voltage switch tubes has been designed and constructed by Radiation at Stanford under U. S. Army Signal Corps sponsorship. The supply (shown on the front cover of this issue) is part of a complete facility for high-potential testing, high-voltage processing, and pulse-testing of high-voltage switch tubes and other components. The equipment, when used with a switch tube and floating deck modulator, also can be operated as an inexpensive, low-duty modulator for testing high-power transmitting tubes."
"The first direct-distance dialing telephone network in Alaska, the Alaskan Switching System, was recently placed in operation for use by the U. S. Air Force. The network was designed, engineered and installed by the Western Electric Company, the manufacturing and supply unit of the Bell System."
"Military research scientists have built and successfully operated a continuous-wave optical maser (laser) with maser action confined to 1.5 seconds of mirror alignment. It is mounted on a granite surface plate for mechanical stability. Construction technique allows alignment and adjustment of the end mirrors to less than 0.1 second of angle with a stability exceeding 1 second per hour with special temperature control or thermal shielding. Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co., which built the maser, say that because of its coherent characteristics and its extremely narrow bandwidth and low divergence angle, it shows promise for use in long-range communications and precise measurement of velocity."
"In the interests of giving legislative permanence to the science advisory committee at the White House, which is an investigative and policy-making body, President Kennedy has proposed to Congress the creation of an Office of Science and Technology. The new office would provide a closer link between the Executive branch and Congress, by being responsible for co-ordinating the scientific programs of various Government agencies, and advising the President on scientific policies, plans, and programs."
"The Cambridge electron accelerator, designed by scientists and engineers of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, has begun to produce the fastest, most intense, and most energetic beam of electrons in the world. The $12 million instrument is the newest member of the international family of giant accelerators used to probe the fundamental secrets of matter."
"Four stock sizes of thermoelectric generators are available in a commercial line of these devices designed for portable use. The units have outputs of 2, 4, 8, and 15 watts at 4 amperes. They convert liquid petroleum or natural gas heat directly into electricity. The manufacturer is Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co."
"The project of the century which probably appeals most universally to the sense of adventure is that of placing a man on the moon. Even news of steps taken in the formidable preliminaries involved in this gigantic undertaking impress the imagination. A first step has been taken by NASA in the assignment it issued recently: “Design an earth-bound facility with a gravitational force equal to that on the moon and a wingless, rotorless test vehicle which can be flown and landed by the thrust from its Focket motors alone.” Jackson & Moreland, Inc., consulting engineers, are working on the assignment, and the Lunar Landing Research Facility will be built at Langley Air Force Base, Va., where research engineers and test pilots may study the control of landings for future astronauts to the moon's surface."
"A newly designed mobile pipe mill which can roll, weld, and string along a right of way as much as 8,000 feet of 8-inch oil transportation pipe a day, is made by Tocco Division of Ohio Crankshaft Company. It reduces welding time by more than 900 percent in a new application of the induction heating process."
"A computer program to warn of the presence of missiles, completed after 1,900 man-months of work, can give its message in a matter of seconds, which means that we in the United States would have a 15-minute warning."
"The story of Phonewriting begins in the 1880's when the first practical machine, slightly smaller than a grand piano, was built. It transmitted handwriting, after a fashion, over wire between the inventor's home and his laboratory 500 yards away. Research and development produced through the decades progressive improvements in efficiency and size — down now to a 12 — by 12 — by 5½-inch compact unit to be placed on a desk. The chief technical problem of the immediate past was to develop a system that would assure satisfactory transmission of handwritten messages over all of the many types of telephone circuits."
"The Institute of Radio Engineers celebrated its 50th anniversary with a mammoth exhibit at the New York Coliseum, March 26–29. Held in conjunction with the annual winter meeting, the show attracted more than 70,000 engineers, scientists, and guests from various parts of the world to an electronic display spread through all four floors of the convention hall."
"From 10,000 feet up, scanning microwave radiometers (powerful electronic “cameras”) penetrated clouds of smoke from the recent Topanga Canyon fire near Los Angeles. The fire was scanned at night; its path was mapped, and spots of the worst intensity noted. Space-General Corp., developers of the device, predict that the experiment may lead to revolutionary fire detection techniques. Patent applications are being processed on the system which would combine an air-borne scanning microwave radiometer with ground control television displays."
"A growing demand for power supplies brings with it the need for custom-engineered units of high efficiency to operate sophisticated types of electronic equipment. A new concept of electrical energy conversion, which for the first time makes possible the use of the variable width pulse technique in a power supply of the 1-kw and higher output range was described by Dr. Victor Wouk in a paper delivered at the recent IRE convention in New York City. In this new type of unit, the Convertron, silicon-controlled rectifiers are used to generate high-frequency pulses of variable width. Changing the width of the pulse regulates the output voltage."
"Using a newly designed tuning cavity and an improved semiconductor diode as the amplifying medium, Bell Telephone Laboratories scientists have built a non-degenerate parametric amplifier with an over-all system noise temperature of 60 degrees Kelvin at 6 kmc, or a noise figure of about 0.9 db. This is the lowest noise figure ever achieved for a device of this type. The development was reported at the recent International Solid-State Circuits Conference in a paper by Michiyuki Uenohara."
"A room-sized box in which a simulated sun will rise and set, and an occasional cloudburst will occur, is being built to aid scientists in the study of insects."
"At the Atomic Energy Commission's National Reactor Testing Station near Idaho Falls, Ida., the Boiling Reactor Experiment No. 5 (Borax-5) has achieved initial criticality. This self-sustaining chain reaction was reached with an arrangement of 14 nuclear fuel assemblies, containing a total of 11.2 kilograms of uranium-235. After a period of testing and reactor calibration, components to provide superheating of steam will be installed in the reactor core."
"Accurate mapping of an area of Antarctica one third again as large as New England has been made possible with the completion of the most ambitious map control project ever undertaken on this continent."
"Space ships of the future may get their power supply from biochemical fuel cells. Biological catalysts and ordinary food compounds like sugar and protein have been used to produce small electric currents, and scientists have taken a step toward harnessing one of nature's most efficient electrochemical systems."
"Equipment called the Pulse Echo Fault Locator, incorporating a new method of direct presentation of results on a cathode-ray tube, is said to locate faults in undersea cables quickly, easily and accurately. The British firm which manufactures the locator reports that the equipment can pinpoint the area of a fault to within 80 yards in normal underwater conditions. It is being installed to maintain the Commonwealth round-the-world cable, and can also be used for land cables and for tests in cable manufacture."
"A perfect total eclipse at Lae, New Guinea, in February, gave information that will help in an understanding of the energies which surge from the sun and create the chromosphere and the sun's corona. The chromosphere is the 1,000-to 10,000-mile band of energy that lies between the sun's visible surface and the region called the corona that extends beyond the chromosphere. It can be seen in full and meaningful view only during a total eclipse. Of particular importance was this rare opportunity to view the lower 600-mile region of the chromosphere, which was seen clearly in this brief glimpse of several seconds' duration."
"The following letters are the only ones received by the Editor on the subject of the proposed merger of AIEE and IRE. Several others containing well-considered opinions on the subject have come to President Chase personally and so will not be published in these columns. This department welcomes opinions on any topic. Readers should address their comments to the Editor of Electrical Engineering."
"Handbook of astronautical engineering, H. H. Koelle (editor). McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., 330 W. 42 St., New York 36, N.Y., 1961; Various pagings, 6¼ by 9¼ inches, bound; $27.50. This comprehensive handbook covers six major areas: fundamentals of astronautical engineering, astrodynamics, astrionics, propulsion, space vehicles, and space flight operations. It concentrates on practical engineering data and know-how, rather than on theory, but a reasonable number of equations and theoretical discussions are included to give a basic understanding of the problems involved, The handbook also defines and describes many recent advances, particularly in the areas of space flight economy, advanced vehicle design concepts, components, and systems integration."
"1962 Tube caddy-tube substitution guidebook, by H. A. Middleton, is a revised and enlarged version of the original edition. This guide, designed for a TV technician's tube caddy, lists more than 4,000 direct substitutions for commonly used tubes. The four sections in the first edition, covering Receiving Tubes, European to American, American to European, and Ruggedized Tube Substitutions, have all been expanded and brought up to date, and a fifth section listing 1,300 picture tube substitutions has been added. The 64-page guidebook is priced at $.90 from John F. Rider Publisher, Inc., 116 W. 14 St., New York 11, N.Y."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-operation of Royer and Roger, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department,∗ 41 East 28th Street, New York 16, N. Y."
"The Empire Tri-District Meeting, to be held May 14–16 at the Lawrence Hotel in Erie, Pa., will have as its theme “Previews of Progress.”"
"The Summer General Meeting of the AIEE, to be held in Denver, Colo., June 17–22 will offer the perfect opportunity to combine convention and vacation. The appeal of the Mile High City as a convention and vacation headquarters is growing rapidly each year. With this in mind, the committee for the Summer General Meeting is preparing for a record-breaking AIEE summer gathering."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The annual Joint Automatic Control Conference will take place June 27–29 on the campus of New York University at University Heights in New York City. Societies participating in the conference are: AIEE, which is responsible for this year's meeting, AIChE, ASME, IRE, and ISA. Scheduled events include a plenary session; 19 technical sessions, workshops, and panel discussions; and a banquet."
"The 6th Nuclear Congress sponsored by EJC will be held as scheduled, June 4–6, in New York City, despite cancellation of the accompanying event, the Atomic Exposition."
"Outstanding treatment of current problems and future developments in the electrical phases of packaging machinery will be presented by top industrial experts at the 1962 technical conference of the AIEE Packaging Industry Subcommittee in the Shelbourne Hotel, Atlantic City, N. J., May 7–8."
"The annual conference on electrical engineering as applied to the pulp and paper industry will be held May 16–18 at the Hilton Inn in Atlanta, Ga. Some 160 ranking electrical engineers from the mills and allied industries are expected to attend. Sponsored by the AIEE Pulp and Paper Committee, the conference will offer a program of technical papers, and timely addresses will be directed at the improvement of technical operations in pulp and paper mills. A conference booklet containing copies of all papers to be presented will be available."
"A study course on Semiconductors was presented recently by the Michigan Section. It consisted of seven weekly sessions held at the Michigan Bell Telephone Co. Office Center in Detroit."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 50€ each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $10.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Since our ability to capitalize on today's technological revolution depends on men of very advanced training, we must inquire into the adequacy of these manpower sources. This nation, to maintain its world leadership, must exploit to the fullest the brain power of its citizens in all geographic regions"
"A curve plotted on log-log paper of the past load growth of 100 countries is a straight line. From its character one can draw the conclusion that “a hundredfold increase in usage will reduce the rate of growth by half.” The many factors that influence the initial position of this curve for each country can be determined either by the country's past performance or by detailed analysis of future conditions"
"Many factors contribute to the increasing usage of static voltage regulators and exciters on small industrial and commercial generators. Various excitation and regulating systems are described and illustrated, and their performance compared and evaluated"
"An accurate yet simple high-speed tachometer based on the stroboscopic principle can have wide application. High accuracy, however, would require a digital or decade readout. A system is presented whose functional operation and unit design is capable of measuring and reading speeds from 20 to 50,000 rpm with an accuracy of &pm;1 rpm without mechanically loading the motor shaft being observed"
"A 138-kv 10,000-mva air-blast circuit breaker, believed to be the first 2-cycle breaker for transmission-line voltages, was recently developed and field tested. It interrupted both transmission-line and bus faults while mounted on the trailer on which it was shipped. The rating is based on the proposed symmetrical-rating structure"
"Increasing heat loads from rising lighting levels in office buildings result in increased air-conditioning costs and efficiency loss in lighting output. We are now facing a “thermal barrier.” A method is discussed whereby the light energy is increased, the heat energy reduced, and the rejected heat energy utilized more effectively"
"The subject of safety, one of the basic human needs, is explored through a series of opinion surveys conducted in representative segments of industry. It has been found that management, in general, displays an enlightened self-interest in this area, devoting a considerable sum of money and effort to the dissemination of safety information. Nevertheless, more effective approaches must be found to reduce the high annual toll of needless accidents"
"The AIEE Summer General Meeting scheduled for June 17–22 in Denver, Colo., will take on a “far out” atmosphere. Aero-space travel and radiation will be the two largest fields covered. According to the subcommittee on radiation effects, this will be the most significant conference to be held on the subject anywhere in the last 3 years."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Technological advances in the rapidly developing field of direct power conversion will be emphasized at the Pacific Energy Conversion Conference to take place August 13–16 in San Francisco, Calif. Conference headquarters and all formal sessions will be held at San Francisco's famous Fairmont Hotel."
"The Special Technical Conference on Extra High Voltage, sponsored jointly by the AIEE Power System Communications, Relays, and Substations Committees, was held March 14–16 in Dallas, Tex. The Texas District 15, whose chairman is P. G. Wallace of the Texas Power and Light Co., was host to the conference."
"The Board of Directors has approved the addition of a Group Life Insurance Plan to the Group Insurance Program now available to AIEE members. This action was taken after hearing a progress report concerning the favorable reception given to the Loss of Time and Major Hospital-Nurse-Surgical Plans."
"A tentative 3-year fiscal plan for IEEE (AIEE + IRE), with income and expenses in balance at $6 million by 1965, was approved on April 24, 1962 by the Executive Committees of the seemingly merger-bound societies."
"Prospective authors are invited to submit papers on Artificial Intelligence for presentation at sessions during the AIEE Winter General Meeting in New York City on January 27-February 1 and for publication as AIEE Transactions Papers."
"The February 13 meeting of the Michigan Section was unique in that the meeting was planned, prepared, and presented by the University of Michigan AIEE-IRE Student Branch. The main purpose of the evening was to acquaint the Michigan Section with the problems and activities of the Student Branch."
"The ASME-AIEE National Power Conference will be held September 23–26 at the Lord Baltimore Hotel in Baltimore, Md. The program of events planned by the General Arrangements Committee is expected to be of interest to power engineers and others who work in related fields."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted by AIEE Transactions and will be open for written discussion until June 27. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, AIEE, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y., on or before June 27."
"Recent laser news includes reports on at least three aspects of the light-emitting device: use of a crystal containing dysprosium, which reduces the amount of energy required to generate infrared light; the piercing by coherent light of a diamond — hardest material known to man; and employment of exploding wire for “pumping” an optical laser."
"A new laser consisting of a calcium fluoride host doped with divalent dysprosium is announced by RCA Laboratories. The new device reduces by ten times the amount of energy required by other lasers to generate powerful beams of infrared light. It is expected to be used in studies of coherent light beams for the usual purposes: missile defense, communications, and metallurgy. The new laser crystal emits light at low power, the emission is triggered by a stimulated to emit light at only one of the frequencies. Silvering both ends of the crystal, one partially and the other completely, causes most of the emitted light to reflect back and forth through the crystal, inducing still other electrons to emit. The cumulative effect brings about coherent energy radiating from the partially silvered end, more intense than light at the surface of the sun."
"Alaska's first nuclear power plant, which will supply heat and electricity to the subarctic U.S. Army Post at Fort Greely, recently went critical. To ensure safe operation, before the reactor was loaded with uranium fuel, the plant was subjected to thorough testing for more than a year. Forty-two tests were made in preparation for the plant's various systems functioning together in converting the energy yielded by fission to usable power."
"A British firm has developed an intrinsically safe solenoid valve for electrical control in hazardous locations such as mines or in the petroleum and chemical industries."
"With the use of a radio direction finder it is quite simple to determine accurately the direction from which a radio signal originates. There are, however, two points of equal “nulls” separated by 180 degrees."
"A recent development in the technique of character recognition promises to accelerate the movement toward the automation of paper work. Such a device, now in the prototype stage, has been developed by the Research and Development Laboratory of Link Division, General Precision, Inc., Hinghamton, N. Y."
"An electronic-optical device was recently demonstrated by Hughes Aircraft Co., which gives the viewer the equivalent of “second sight” in a practical form. The Electrocular weighs about 30 ounces, is worn on the head, and permits the wearer to see what is going on in a remote location in addition to what is in his natural field of view. He can either concentrate on the picture presented by the device or look through it to the natural scene."
"A furnace, based on a new heating concept, can produce temperatures in excess of 5,000 F within seconds. It is about the size of a bread box and plugs into a standard electrical outlet."
"A compact air defense system, which can be deployed to any part of the world on virtually a moment's notice, has been produced. Air defense systems have already been installed in 10 major cities, but the new system, called Birdie, will take care of defense co-ordination in the smaller metropolitan areas and around vital defense bases. It is built by the Martin Co., and gets its name from the term “battery integration and radar display equipment.”"
"A fluid magnetic spring, in which the viscosity of the working fluid can be instantaneously changed from that of a medium-weight oil to a near solid, has been developed by the Applied Physics Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University."
"Two single-shaft steam turbine-generators have been commissioned by English Electric for the Central Electricity Generating Board's Blyth “B” power plant in Northumberland, England. The turbines have 36-inch blades in the last rows of the low-pressure rotors. This is the world's first application of blades of such length at speeds of 3,000 rpm and more, and these machines are the first of a series that English Electric is building with blades of this size."
"Scientists at the National Bureau of Standards have designed “the biggest little capacitor in the world” as the first step in a high-voltage calibration program. Known as the “Mighty Pike,” the 1-picofarad 350,000-volt capacitor will be used mainly for determining the voltage ratio and phase angle corrections of instrument voltage transformers."
"An advanced concept for future large-scale generation of electric power by magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) is described in a recent technical paper. The MHD method, one of the so-called exotic methods of converting heat directly into electricity, extracts electric power from a white-hot stream of ionized gas, or plasma, moving with hurricane speed through a strong magnetic field. When ionized, the gas conducts electricity and can replace the moving coils of wire in a conventional electric generator."
"The National Academy of Sciences awarded its John J. Carty Medal to Dr. Charles H. Townes in recognition of his pioneering work in the development of the maser. The medal, established in 1930 to recognize noteworthy and distinguished accomplishments in science, was presented to Dr. Townes April 23 during the Academy's annual meeting in Washington, D.C."
"Better standards and techniques for measuring infrared radiation and a more thorough understanding of molecular structure have resulted from a National Bureau of Standards program of basic research in the infrared region. An important part of the program is the determination of precise reference wavelengths, which are greatly needed because of the wide use of infrared spectra as a means of analysis. Results of the work also provide values of molecular constants used in chemical research to evaluate thermodynamic functions."
"A new cryogenic associative memory circuit that simultaneously compares all stored computer information, rapidly associating input data with any portion of related information contained in its memory has been developed by General Electric's Heavy Military Electronics Department in co-operation with GE's Research Laboratory in Schenectady, N. Y. One of the first operative circuits of this kind, it provides a greatly simplified design approach to high-speed computer memories of large storage capacity."
"A new optical radar set, employing a ruby laser, consists of a complete transmitting and receiving system packaged in a suitcase occupying 1.6 cubic feet of space."
"An electronic surveying system has been developed by the Cubic Corporation, San Diego, Calif., that can measure distances to 150 miles with an accuracy of &pm; 3 feet. The system, employing airborne and land-based equipment, combines principles used in Cubic's missile-tracking equipment with established photogrammetric technique. Called EMPE-Aeris (electronic mobile positioning equipment-aerial electronic range instrumentation system), the system greatly reduces the time of long-distance land surveys with conventional equipment."
"Magnetic amplifier analysis. David L. Lafuze. John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 440 Park Ave. South, New York 16, N. Y. 1962; 252 pages, bound; $9.75. A general approach to magnetic amplifier circuit analysis is used in this book, based on the equivalent circuit and the block diagram of the servo loop. Simple relationships for calculating amplifier performance from basic core properties are formulated and related to results throughout the book. Both half-wave and full-wave amplifiers are discussed, and transient function generation is covered."
"For copies of publications listed please write to the addresses given."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, and Telecommunications are published by AIEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, a subsidiary of Royer and Roger, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: AIEE, Special Subscription Department,∗ 41 East 28th Street, New York 16, N. Y."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 50€ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $10.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 345 E. 47 St., New York 17, N. Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new series of foam polyethylene coaxial cables have been developed by Andrew Corporation. They are called FOAM HELIAX and retain the unique corrugated solid copper outer conductor construction so popular in regular air dielectric HELIAX. Two sizes have been developed, nominally 1/2 inch and 7/8 inch diameters, both of 50-ohm impedance. Connectors in type UHF and type N have been developed for these cables and are designed for easy installation with ordinary tools."
"With the advent of semiconductors, there has been a growing trend toward utilizing as many transistors as possible in vehicular-communication equipment. Indeed, complete transistorization is possible for the entire mobile receiver section. In addition, part of the transmitter can also be equipped with transistors."
"The ever growing use of two-way radio by business, by government agencies and by the public continually presents to our industry new challenges, new problems to solve. The purpose of this paper will be to cite some of the ways in which broad-band antennas are currently being used to meet these challenges and to suggest some ways in which they may be used to meet challenges in vehicular communications in the future."
"I believe that a relatively few realize the important part the Electronic Industries Association (EIA) plays in establishing industry standards. Nor do many recognize its continuous struggle to influence appropriate frequency allocations to satisfy our immediate and future needs. Actually, much of the progress and stature of the electronics industry as we know it today is due to the quiet but determined efforts of EIA."
"Having attended several PGVC National Conferences during the past half-dozen years while a member of the military establishment, I arrived at the conclusion that this professional group is largely concerned with civilian vehicular communications. While this may be an accepted fact for most members, it came to me with a sense of surprise and disappointment. The fact that military vehicular communication problems and experiences are so poorly represented at our national conferences has never ceased to be viewed by me with a feeling of regret. Surely the similarities, between military and civilian vehicular communications, far outnumber the differences."
"At least a good part of the problem of impulse noise in FM mobile receivers can be traced to its unpredictable nature — even so far as regards any particular installation in any given radio system."
"In attempting to prognosticate on the “Unseen Future of Vehicular Communications,” the theme of this 12th annual PGVC National Conference the author is well aware that extrasensory perception techniques, premonitions or just plain crystal-ball gazing may not suffice as prerequisites for this dissertation. It is recalled that not so many years ago, Dr. Frank B. Jewett, the renowned scientist and former President of Bell Telephone Laboratories, was once asked to define the ultimate objective of telephone communications. He replied in essence that when you can take out of your pocket a device the size of a watch, dial the number of a particular individual who may be anywhere in the world, and if he did not answer, you knew he was dead; that is the ultimate objective."
"Noise interference is “Public Enemy Number One” to the Mobile Communication user. It places a fundamental limitation on his talking range and little can be done about it except to eliminate or suppress the noise radiation at its source. For a great many noises, like those from high tension power lines, this source elimination is either not practical or impossible."
"The chicago Police Departments new communications network is considered to be probably the most modern and flexible system of its kind in existence."
"This report describes a synchronous pulse-type radio-telephone system for mobile communication use. The system features direct user-to-user communication without intermediate switching, a number of users have a common frequency band but avoid interference by operating in different time channels. Transmission takes place in bursts containing a large number of contiguous samples. This time-compression of the samples provides sufficient guard-time to accommodate the range of transmission delays in the specified area and other timing errors. A central clock is desirable but not indispensable. System calculations indicate 10 simultaneous simplex conversations per megacycle using delta modulation. The analysis assumes that subscribers are located in discrete areas. A large number of addresses, ringing and busy tones, command override, etc., are easily accommodated."
"The problems involved in operating two or more equipments on one antenna are discussed and some methods are given for their solution. These involve the use of various types of linear passive filters. The particular type or niter to be used depends on the number of transmitters and receivers to be coupled, on the frequency separation between them, and whether the frequencies are to be fixed or variable. Practical information is given on how the various types of filters, may be constructed and used in the different frequency bands from 2 Mc. to 10,000 Mc."
"Conventional backward-acting A GC circuits acting fast enough to counteract rapid fading will, if stable, suppress neighboring voice frequencies. However, forward-acting AGC is inherently stable, so it can be made very fast by inserting a sharp cut-off filter in the control path. This permits the suppression of 200 cps. fading with negligible effect on the 300–3,000 cps. voice band. Analysis and tests show that fading modulation products are suppressed by about 20 db."
"This paper describes a selective contacting device that is responsive only to sustained frequencies in a discrete narrow band and is insensitive to speech and noise interference. It is of small size suitable for use in a pocket carried radio receiver and is sufficiently stable to permit 33 discrete resonant frequencies, spaced 15 cycles apart in less than an octave between 517–5 and 997–5 cycles per second. It has a threshold sensitivity of about 35 microwatts and other operating characteristics that are essential in large capacity systems."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This bibliography has been compiled from two separate bibliographies, one of which was prepared at the Georgia Institute of Technology in the course of a research program conducted for the Department of the Army,1 and the other was prepared at the Radio Corporation of America as a consequence of investigations carried out on a large systems complex. The former was prepared by the first five authors listed above, and the latter was prepared by the last named author."
"This bibliography is the result of a literature survey which has been conducted in conjunction with the measurements and computer program on this contract over a period of three years. The original purpose of the survey was to locate all of the literature pertaining to interference which might be of value in performing the other two phases of the contract. However, as the number of abstracts increased, it was decided to publish them in order that others engaged in this general field could have all available references without the necessity of duplicating this effort. This bibliography does not cover all phases of the interference field as explained in Part 2; however, other bibliographies are referenced which satisfactorily cover those areas of interest which have been omitted."
"This is a working bibliography. No attempt has been made to list all of the articles, books, pamphlets, etc., which have been written and which pertain to the subjects of grounding and interference reduction. All of the listed items represent titles which, in the judgement of the compiler, would be of interest to engineers concerned with the specific topics. No attempt was made to include popular articles, speeches or articles of historical interest alone."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A1. “ADF interference blanker development,” M. M. Newman, IRE ON Aerospace and Navigational Electronics, vol. ANE-5, pp. 86–91; June, 1958. Pubi. Abst. — Interference blankers have been developed to give improvement ratios of the order of 1000 in the presence of severe precipitation static of the order of 150,000 pulses per second. Recently the blanking technique has been applied to ADF receivers with the objectives of simplification, reduced size and weight, improved sensitivity in the presence of interference, reduced intermodulation distrotion, maintenance of the relative phases of the sense and loop signals, and general compatibility with ADF receiver operation."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"As most readers of these TRANSACTIONS are fully aware, the ever-growing mass of data and information in most technical fields has become a problem of major proportions. Many sizeable projects have been initiated to seek methods of bringing the problem under control. In spectrum utilization and RFI work as in other technical areas, the electronics community is rapidly accumulating experience and knowledge from our many projects and studies."
"Some of the basic techniques in electromagnetic interference reduction are those of bonding, grounding, and shielding. Often, the proper techniques are employed without a full understanding of the rationale behind the techniques, and often the theory is understood but imperfectly put into practice. This turorial paper attempts to assemble concisely the theory and techniques relating to shielding, bonding, grounding, and cable selection."
"In applications where a power distribution conductor carrying a large current is routed near a conducting metal wall or chassis, voltage will be induced in circuits “grounded” to the opposite side of the wall. The effectiveness of the wall in shielding the grounded circuits from the power circuit is a function of conductor distance from the wall, the current and frequency carried by the conductor, and the conductivity, permeability, and thickness of the wall. Maxwell's equations are solved for the case of a conductor parallel to a metal plane and the shielding effectivenss is expressed as the ratio of two integral equations. The expression is evaluated numerically by digital computer and is presented as sets of curves for appropriate values of the independent variables."
"To obtain a reduction in the separation requirement for the prediction of antenna power transfer, a general power transfer formula is developed with no direct restriction on separation. This general formula is applied to the special case of two rectangular aperture antennas. The result is expressed in the form of the Friis transmission formula multiplied by two correction factors which are derived for six combinations of aperture illuminations. Results are presented of an experimental program to check the validity of the prediction method described. These results are in very close agreement with the theoretical prediction."
"This is a condensed tutorial paper pertaining to ceramic low-pass filter elements (and their mounting) for effective RFI elimination at very high frequencies. At these frequencies, conventional tubular feedthrough capacitors are rather useless because of detrimental dimensional resonances. Such resonances are suppressed in discoidal, cross-slotted (transversal slots in outer electrode), and cascaded (in combination with ferrites) filter elements. The main characteristics of all three types are compared."
"This paper describes the noise generation properties of multi-megawatt super-power tubes of the shield-grid type. The importance of the subject lies in the use of these tubes in radar transmitters where “dark noise” generated in the interpulse interval may seriously degrade system performance. In the past this has required plate pulsing of the amplifier but this paper demonstrates that grid-pulsing alone can be made to suffice."
"The anticipated growth of satellite communication may lead to numbers of independent systems, analogous to the many overseas airlines. Some such systems may need to share frequency channels. This paper examines orbital constraints on channel sharing, toward controlling or avoiding intrusions of “foreign” satellites into the interference beamwidth of earth station antennas which are tracking satellites of their own system. Such an intrusion is termed an “eclipse.” In general, two systems can avoid eclipse interference by interchange of their “up” and “down” frequency channels. This, however, is not true sharing. Additionally, such interchange complicates interference coordination between earth stations of the two systems. Orbit crossings create eclipse conditions. Hence, random orbit systems and systems using orbits of different inclinations can avoid eclipse interference by eclipse-prediction and premature hand-over to an uneclipsed and available satellite. If co-channel systems use circular equatorial orbits of sufficiently different heights, eclipses would be intolerable near the equator, but would not occur at higher latitudes. Eclipses always can be avoided if systems share the same orbit(s) with phased satellites, maintaining adequate separation between satellites of the several systems. In particular, any stationary satellite is “phased” to the accuracy with which it is kept on station. Thus, many co-channel satellite systems can share the stationary orbit."
"This paper is concerned with the assignment of frequencies to a simple communication system consisting of a communication center and several distant distinct sites. The mode of operation is assumed to be full duplex. A procedure is presented for determining sets of frequencies which can be assigned to such a communication system. Each set of frequencies is free of interference due to spurious emissions, and spurious responses at each site, and furthermore is free of interference due to transmitter intermodulation, i.e., the intermodulation products of two co-site transmitters does not interfere with a co-site receiver, and the intermodulation products of a transmitter at one site and a distant transmitter does not cause interference with a receiver at the given site. The assignment procedure is mechanized for the Burroughs 220 digital computer and an example is given."
"Some quantitative measurements on vehicular ignition noise are reported in terms of the spectral density of radiated power in the vicinity of 900 Mc, to assist in predicting the amount of interference which must be considered in siting microwave communication systems. The median radiated power of the ignition pulses was determined to be −12 dbm and −22 dbm/Mc bandwidth for trucks and passenger cars respectively. Conventional suppression techniques, normally effective at lower frequencies, were found to have no effect. Polarization of the receiving antenna also had no statistical effect. The effects of such interference on the FM receivers and multiplex equipment of a troposcatter communication link were also evaluated. The pulses were audible whenever their received level exceeded the desired signal level."
"The following is a correction and expansion of the above article by Firestone, Lutz, and Smith."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This issue contains three papers carefully chosen on the basis of their probable value in providing information to the members of PGRFI."
"Your editor has invited me, as your chairman, to offer a few words of wisdom to accompany this issue of the TRANSACTIONS. I accepted the invitation with tongue in cheek because I had no thoughts as to where the words of wisdom would originate. I have two choices: to start talking, or to take the Fifth Amendment on the grounds that whatever I say will certainly be held against me. Anyone who has been engaged in radio interference work over a number of years has learned not to be concerned about getting himself committed — he is always doing that — so the alternative is to start talking. Perhaps the logical thing is to do just that and let the Editor worry."
"Satellite technology can expand global communication by orders of magnitude, but only by sharing frequencies with surface services now occupying the spectrum. Feasibility of frequency sharing with fixed microwave systems is discussed here. Such systems occupy a useful fraction of the spectrum and employ horizontally-beamed low power. Passive and active, stationary and low orbit satellite point-to-point systems are considered. Interference may be “surface” (earth terminal to or from microwave) or “orbital” (to, from, or via satellites). Surface coordination is eased by the minimum elevation angles of terminal antennas, but still requires beyond-horizon separations or topographically protected sites. Interference from satellites is inconsequential. Main-beam interference to satellites can come only from a tangential belt."
"The reduction and ultimate prevention of radio frequency interference, and the solution of the broader problem of radio spectrum conservation, are among the greatest technical challenges to be faced in the decade of the 1960's. To meet this challenge successfully, it is stressed that close cooperation must exist between the engineer and the diplomat, between telecommunication planners, managers, and policy makers, both nationally and internationally. To help accomplish this, the suggestion is made that the PGRFI broaden its responsibilities to cover the entire field of radio spectrum conservation."
"Present trends in the design of transmitters, receivers, and antennas for use in communications and radar are reviewed to assess their impact on interference, interference measurement techniques, shielding and prediction methods. It is shown that transmitter power output and antenna size have increased by a factor of 10 in the last decade and that similar increases are anticipated in the next five to ten years. Transmitter spurious outputs are now frequently greater than the desired outputs of transmitters a few years ago. It is also shown that receiver sensitivity improvement, as a result of new techniques (masers, parametric, amplifiers, etc.), may not be realizable unless antenna side- and backlobes are drastically reduced. It is further shown that the sensitivity and frequency range of field intensity meters must be increased to permit meaningful measurements in the light of these developments. It is suggested that the performance of filters for transmitters must be developed for receivers to reduce interference."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"So much could be said about our Professional Group, its purposes, it goals, its responsibilities, and its contributions to the engineering fraternity. But during this year of 1962–1963 two things seem to be of outstanding importance. One is the function of PGEWS in terms of our own membership. The second is our future in terms of the imminent mergers and consolidations of corresponding professional groups as IRE and AIEE combine to produce IEEE. I would like to dwell on each of these subjects for a few moments."
"The twelve papers in this issue range widely over several subjects — all significant influences on how well we communicate our engineering and research knowledge. These papers have been selected from the presentations given at the IRE Conference on Technical-Scientific Communications that PGEWS sponsored in Philadelphia in September 1961. That Conference is history. But, the ideas in these papers are as vital and important today as they ever were — perhaps more so, as PGEWS must look to a future where a burgeoning electronics technology promises more difficult and complex problems in communicating its knowledge, not easier ones."
"In research and development operations, there must be rather dramatic emphasis on communication from the lower echelons upward. Free, often direct communication links between the younger, creative minds and the top-level planners are vital. When scientists are regarded as professionals only, rather than part of a company team, they tend to approach their problems as chemists, physicists, or engineers working in their narrow professional areas with professional, rather than with company rewards and goals as their motivation. Only an atmosphere that provides for “bottoms up” flow of communications can unlock the innovative contributions that these talented people, specially trained in great depth, can make toward corporate goals."
"In this review, research in Communication Theory is presented in four phases: analysis, research, development, and design, none of which has been thoroughly worked out. The attempts to analyze are shown by various “models” of the communication system. The research is presented mostly through the work of Shannon and Weaver as the modern school of “objectivists”. The semantics approach is discussed briefly, and finally, several experiments in communication are reviewed. The paper ends with the assertion that although very little has been accomplished so far in research in Communication Theory, the little that has been done indicates that there is much that can be done."
"Field theory of communication is concerned with adaptive activity within the framework of purpose — a state of affairs and a goal-state. Two controls may be used: Feedforward starts a verbal pattern whose organization permits receivers to anticipate the form the whole pattern will take. Also required is a mechanism to indicate differences between present state and goal-state, and which alters controls on activity so as to reduce these differences — a decision-making continuum where controls rest only if difference signals are zero. Perception is the updating of the state of readiness to respond adaptively and is facilitated by the hierarchical nature of the preference structure of the organism. Relevance is measured by the degree of which incoming information updates the state of readiness for the activity. All of which is introductory to semantics and the use of formators by which to organize verbal experience and to transmit ideas as form, involving the uses and modes of language to advnace purpose — disciplines which have relevance to reading, writing, speaking, listening, and thinking. The four basic assumptions of field theory of communication are process, uniqueness, relatedness, and order. The scientist as a communicator in a field has no program other than a means-end hypothesis which moves toward a predetermined goal. Communication is structured change. The stability of the process is maintained by the use of formators (elements of the symbolic pattern) which are held together by a principle of organization. The semantic devices for maintenance of stability are feedforward and positive feedback. Flexibility is achieved by reduction of deviation between the goal state and the actual state by the use of negative feedback."
"The communication practices in a technical field and also in a particular group(s) may affect significantly both the nature and quality of information generated as well as its diffusion and impact. Intentionally or otherwise, individuals who are a part of such groups are constantly communicating about themselves, their work and their group. As the quantity of information and the needs to communicate to either professional or layman increases, the number of scientists who understand the science and art of communicating becomes inadequate. In communicating to the public (and even to selected publics) scientists unintentionally may be contributing to the development of unrealistic and even dangerous attitudes. Specific feasible measures can correct certain of these conditions and prevent development of others."
"Scientists and technologists today spend much of their time imparting and receiving communications. Extensive specialization is accompanied by an increase in new concepts that are not common property, but are restricted within many small fields. A step toward solution is for each specialist carefully to select the concepts used in his discourse. He must introduce all those that are relevant, exclude those that are not relevant, and present them in an understandable context. The task is not easy and calls for a trained, logical mind."
"With expenditures climbing to over $12 billion per year, research has been called the nation's fastest growing industry. In a technological society in which the major research expenditures are publicly supported, an obligation exists to utilize efficiently research investigations. Wide dissemination of research studies, with particular emphasis on their significance, is a prerequisite for early practical applications. Several techniques for interpreting the results of research are outlined and evaluated. In an appropriate environment, the research worker and a competent science writer are a highly effective team to interpret the significance of research in a stimulating manner. The circumstances under which such a technique is likely to be most effective are outlined. (Editor's Note: The author concludes with an outspoken challenge to IRE-PGEWS concerning its professional role that every PGEWS member should ponder.)"
"To communicate effectively, the scientist or engineer today must be clear in his own mind as to the nature of his audience. In general, he will be concerned with three different audiences — fellow scientists or engineers working in the same field, scientists or engineers working in different fields but at the same professional level, and the public at large. Examples of how data and its significance can be transmitted to these audiences are shown, and some general principles to be followed are suggested. A closer relationship between the scientist or engineer and the technical writer is an important factor in improving technical communication through these varied media."
"Some difficulties in getting answers to the question posed in the title are sketched — for example, the lack of knowledge about the true relationship of scientific literature and scientific discovery, and the differences in form and language used in various specialized fields. Some areas of needed research on retrieval systems for scientific information are suggested."
"The research man needs both to acquire specific information and to browse. The exponential growth of publication challenges old aids and makes additional demands upon new ones. The use of re-sorted lists of references, in the form of citation indexes, offers an effective way to deal with both obsolescence of subject classifications and exponential growth. At a later stage, citation indexes can become essential parts of even more effective ways of connecting the research man to the literature."
"Classical approaches (e.g., Dewey Decimal) for storing and retrieving today's staggering mass of technical documentation have proven ineffectual. This paper reviews problems of technical-information retrieval and the new techniques being developed for coping with them. Brief descriptions are given of available equipment applicable to such methods. However, these new techniques and equipment bring to the force and re-emphasize many technical and managerial problems to be faced in realistically implementing a modern technical-information “system.” Not the least of these are the needs for intelligent preparation of the input to such a system and efficient means for disseminating the output to the information user."
"The National Science Foundation was asked by Congress and by the President three years ago to assume national leadership in efforts to improve scientific information services both within and outside the Federal Government. Since that time, the Office of Science Information Service of the Foundation has taken steps to implement this role of review, coordination, and stimulation of activities in all areas of scientific information. Summarized herein are the principal fields of activity wherein the Foundation's policy of coordination through cooperation has produced significant results. Also discussed are major problems and efforts aimed at their solution."
"In both the U.S.S.R. and the U.S., a number of information services, working in combination, form a national network. (Analogous systems in Poland and Denmark are also briefly discussed.) Although Russian systems are highly organized and far-reaching, they suffer some of the same difficulties as U.S. systems. Russia is very interested in mechanizing their information systems, but appear no more advanced in this than the U.S. However, the Russians are ahead in one vital matter: they show significantly greater appreciation for the impact of information on scientific progress."
"Measurements of resistivity and impurity concentration in heavily doped silicon are reported. These and previously published data are incorporated in a graph showing the resistivity (at T = 300°K) of n- and p-type silicon as a function of donor or acceptor concentration. The relationship between surface concentration and average conductivity of diffused layers in silicon has been calculated for Gaussian and complementary error function distributions. The results are shown graphically. Similar calculations for subsurface layers, such as a transistor base region, are also given."
"This paper describes a selective contacting device that is responsive only to sustained frequencies in a discrete narrow band and is insensitive to speech and noise interference. It is of small size suitable for use in a pocket-carried radio receiver and is sufficiently stable to permit 33 discrete resonant frequencies, spaced 15 cycles apart, in less than an octave between 517.5 and 997.5 cycles per second. It has a threshold sensitivity of about 35 microwatts and other operating characteristics that are essential in large capacity systems."
"The Busing-Levy IBM 704 least squares program has been applied to three-dimensional X-ray diffraction data from crystals of guanidinium aluminum sulfate hexahydrate taken with the Bond-Benedict single-crystal automatic diffractometer. Indications of interactions between parameters were evident in the early stages of refinement and were not removed in the subsequent cycles. Strong interactions were subsequently corroborated by large values of many of the correlation coefficients of pairs of parameters. In this case these interactions prevent refinement. The correctness of the general features of the structure as given in a previous paper on the gallium isomorph is nevertheless corroborated by the present investigation. To enable those who have had similar difficulties to compare results, a fairly detailed account is given of the course of the attempt to refine the structure. The effects of highly correlated parameters are emphasized."
"It is proposed here that the usual Fabry-Perot interferometer structure of the optical maser may be modified in a very simple way to provide discrimination against unwanted orders. The modification is an extra reflecting surface suitably positioned outside the maser which can greatly affect the losses of the various orders. A simple one-dimensional analysis is given for the effect, and numerical results are presented for a realistic case, showing that the effect can be large. It is concluded that this technique may be useful in preventing unwanted oscillations in the optical maser."
"This paper is concerned with the probability, P[T, r(τ)], that a stationary Gaussian process with mean zero and covariance function r(τ) be nonnegative throughout a given interval of duration T. Several strict upper and lower bounds for P are given, along with some comparison theorems that relate P's for different covariance functions. Similar results are given for F[T, r(τ)], the probability distribution for the interval between two successive zeros of the process."
"Probability distributions for the timing jitter in the output of an idealized self-timed repeater for reconstructing a PCM signal are approximated. Primary emphasis is focused on self-timed repeaters employing complete retiming. In this case the probability distribution for the timing jitter reduces to the computation of the phase error in the zero crossings at the output of the tuned circuit excited by a jitter-free binary pulse train. It is assumed that the tuned circuit is mistuned from the pulse repetition frequency, and the individual pulses are either impulses or raised cosine pulses. Both random pulse trains and random plus periodic trains are considered. In general, the probability distributions are skewed in the direction of increasing phase error. The approach to the normal law in the neighborhood of the mean when the circuit Q becomes arbitrarily large is demonstrated. Results obtained from the analytical approach are compared with two computer methods for the case of random impulse excitation of a tuned circuit characterized by a Q of 125 and mistuning of 0.1 per cent. Excellent agreement between the three techniques is displayed. For no mistuning and raised cosine excitation two methods for computing the phase error are given and numerical results obtained from both techniques agree closely. Some attention is given to an idealized version of a reconstructive repeater employing partial retiming and it is shown that the timing performance of such a repeater for random signals is very much inferior to the completely retimed repeater."
"A sawtooth phase comparator has advantages over the more common sinusoidal comparator in a phase-controlled oscillator because its output is linear for larger values of phase error. For some applications, it is no more complex or expensive than the sinusoidal comparator. This paper analyzes properties of the phase-controlled oscillator with a sawtooth comparator that have been mentioned in the literature for sinusoidal comparators. In addition, there is new theoretical material on the effect of fast jitter and noise. The properties of the circuit are presented in a manner which is convenient for design. Since it is easier to analyze the circuit with a sawtooth comparator, many applications of the device have been considered. Because of this wide viewpoint, the paper may be helpful in understanding the phase-controlled oscillator in general."
"Because of the recent interest in phase-controlled oscillators, a discussion of the phase-controlled loop with a sawtooth comparator is presented. The main emphasis is on finding the pull-in range of the loop. A companion paper in this issue (Ref. 4) deals with applications and shows how design parameters can be obtained from results developed here."
"This article considers the reliability of components such as transistors, diodes, and solar cells in relation to the design of a communication satellite with adequate reliability. Consideration is given to methods for determining the reliability of high-quality components and of techniques for selecting the most stable components for this application. It is concluded that, at least for a simple communication satellite, components can now be obtained that will lead to a satisfactory life."
"Spatial models of functions of two variables are often a valuable research tool. Nomograms and artistic relief drawings in two dimensions are difficult to prepare and still lack the direct impact of a spatial object. It has been demonstrated (see Ref. 2) that objects with a randomly dotted surface permit the determination of binocular parallax and, thus, can be seen in depth even though they are devoid of all other depth cues. This random surface presentation has the advantage that the random brightness points can be evenly and densely placed, whereas the classical contour-line projection at equally spaced heights may leave empty spaces between adjacent contour-lines. A digital computer is used to generate the three-dimensional image of a given z = f (x, y) function and to wrap its surface with points of random brightness. The stereo projections of the function are obtained and, when viewed stereoscopically, give the impression of the three-dimensional object as being viewed along the z-axis. The random surface prevents the accumulation of clusters of uniform regions or periodic patterns which yield ambiguities when fused. Two stereo demonstrations are given of surfaces obtained by this method."
"In this paper we consider the problem of determining the maximum fundamental power in a nonlinear capacitance diode, when the charge waveform has a given periodicity and (i) varies between prescribed maximum and minimum values, (ii) has a prescribed maximum and a prescribed maximum slope. Under (i) the maximum obtainable fundamental power is first determined. The charge waveform is then further restricted to contain no higher than second harmonics, so that the diode is being used as a frequency doubler, and the maximum power transfer is determined. The maximum power transfer is also determined under (ii). Particular diodes considered are the abrupt-junction and the graded-junction ones, with operation in the forward conduction region being permitted."
"A popular procedure for testing a pattern recognition machine is to present the machine with a set of patterns taken from the real world. The proportion of these patterns which are misrecognized or rejected is taken as the estimate of the error probability or rejection probability for the machine. In Part I, this testing procedure is discussed for the cases of unknown and known a priori probabilities of occurrence of the pattern classes. The differences between the tests that should be made in the two cases are noted, and confidence intervals for the test results are indicated. These concepts are applied to various published pattern recognition results by determining the appropriate confidence interval for each result. In Part II, the problem of the optimum partitioning of a sample of fixed size between the design and test phases of a pattern recognition machine is discussed. One important nonparametric result is that the proportion of the total sample used for testing the machine should never be less than that proportion used for designing the machine, and in some cases should be a good deal more."
"The existing approximate analysis of wave propagation in lined waveguide is, under practical conditions, limited to linings thinner than 0.025 per cent of the waveguide diameter. A more exact analysis is presented here for the straight and curved waveguide and for all practical linings. In the case of anisotropic or sandwiched linings, the boundary value problem is formulated using wall impedances. The single isotropic lining is taken as an example to prove this formulation useful for typical cases. The exact analysis shows that neither the thickness nor the permittivity of the lining can increase the phase difference between TM11 and TE01 beyond a certain limit. The curvature coupling between these two waves is enhanced slightly by the lining."
"As a first step in the investigation of communications networks with automatic alternate routing, a simulator has been prepared using the IBM 7090 high-speed digital computer. The simulator is capable of being applied to a large class of networks, the principal restrictions being that blocked calls are cleared, and no congestion or delay is encountered at the switching points. Although the first version of the simulation program requires that the alternate routing plan be fixed in advance (i.e., before a run), the program design is such that traffic-dependent alternate routing doctrines can easily be provided. The simulator has so far been used to examine the behavior of small networks of various sizes, configurations, and alternate routing doctrines under normal and abnormal conditions of load. Several criteria are introduced and used to evaluate the relative performance of different networks, leading to conclusions regarding the merits of certain alternate routing procedures and the areas of profitable application of the networks studied. The overload capabilities of these networks are of particular interest and are examined in some detail."
"The semiconductor varactor using surface space charge is analyzed and measurements made on several experimental units are described. The chief characteristics of this device are its capacity-voltage dependence and its negligible dc conduction. The particular system used in this work is a thermally grown oxide on silicon. A theory developed from the surface charge relation is shown to agree with the experimental data over a wide range of silicon resistivity. The theory for optimum operation for both dc and ac biasing is derived and used to compare the performance of this device with that of the p-n junction varactor. The result of this comparison shows that with careful design the semiconductor surface varactor will be able to compete favorably with the junction varactor for many possible applications, including those of ultra high frequency."
"In certain types of connection networks, it is always possible to unblock a blocked call by moving calls already set up in the network. The following results relating to these networks are derived in this article. 1. Bounds on the number of calls which must be disturbed to unblock a blocked call. 2. Bounds on the relation between the number of calls which are already set up in the network, and the number of calls that must be disturbed to unblock a blocked call. 3. Methods of systematically changing connections to unblock a blocked call."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions are presented for the realization of the short-circuit admittance matrix or open-circuit impedance matrix of the most general n-port structures characterized by such matrices obtained by imbedding a tunnel diode, represented by a parallel combination of a capacitor and a negative resistor, in a finite lossless reciprocal network. Techniques for realizing prescribed immittance matrices are included."
"The construction of non-computable functions used in this paper is based on the principle that a finite, non-empty set of non-negative integers has a largest element. Also, this principle is used only for sets which are exceptionally well-defined by current standards. No enumeration of computable functions is used, and in this sense the diagonal process is not employed. Thus, it appears that an apparently self-evident principle, of constant use in every area of mathematics, yields non-constructive entities."
"Waveguide antennas for missiles and space vehicles usually require a window or radome to provide a pressure seal. The technique of shrink fitting is a simple method to seal rectangular waveguides. A theoretical and experimental investigation has been undertaken to study the stresses and displacements that result from shrink fits between rectangular cross sections. An appropriate differential equation is derived by applying simplifying assumptions to the theory of thermal stresses. The solution of this equation indicates that for certain combinations of materials and sizes of rectangles, there is a critical wall thickness below which a pressure-tight shrink fit cannot be made regardless of the temperature at which the shrink fit process is initiated. A comparison is presented of the analytical solution with experimental results of “Teflon”∗ shrunk fit into precision fabricated X-band waveguide. Finally, tabulated results are presented to indicate the magnitude of the stresses and displacements to be expected from typical materials and rectangles of various sizes."
"We present the outline of an IBM 7090 machine program for the Monte Carlo estimation of the percolation probability for a variety of space lattices. The underlying theory is briefly summarized."
"Various published papers have discussed in quite general terms the problem of interference between satellite systems and ground systems. These studies have been largely qualitative, rather than quantitative, in nature. The magnitude of the interference between a satellite system and ground system, however, depends greatly on the frequency plans involved, the character and degree of modulation used, and the parameters of the equipment. Bell Telephone Laboratories has under construction experimental satellite equipment designed to operate in the heavily used 4- and 6-kmc common carrier bands, and the present paper is directed to the potential interference between this satellite equipment and ground point-to-point systems. Interference involving a satellite station and the TD-2 and TH systems is analyzed specifically, and it is shown that the separation between systems must be of the order of 100 to 120 miles or more when the antenna of the common carrier transmitter or receiver is pointed directly at the satellite ground station. If the antenna is beamed 90 degrees or more from the satellite site, the minimum distance may be of the order of 10 miles even when line-of-sight propagation exists between locations. This assumes the use of the Bell System's horn-reflector antenna on the terrestrial system. With a parabolic dish antenna the latter distance must be increased to about 40 miles and adequate blocking must exist in the interference path. These distances provide adequate freedom from mutual interference for both telephone and television modulating signals."
"The reflex klystron is widely used as a tunable low-power oscillator in frequency-modulated microwave radio relay systems, both as the transmitter and as the local oscillator in the receiver. Automatic frequency control is generally used to limit frequency error due to drift of the transmitter klystron when the environmental temperature changes. In the TL Radio System developed at Bell Telephone Laboratories, the transmitting klystron frequency is stabilized by minimizing the effects of environmental temperature changes with completely passive methods. The 457A klystron frequency stability is better than 50 parts per million over an ambient temperature range of 100°C when used at mid-band. In the TL Radio System, the design objective for frequency stability of 500 parts per million is attained at extreme conditions of ambient temperature, atmospheric pressure, and voltage regulation; therefore the need for automatic frequency control has been eliminated. The operating temperature of the 457A klystron in the TL Radio System is controlled by a liquid-vapor heat exchanger, which is described. The design of the klystron mechanical tuner includes compensation to minimize the thermal coefficient of frequency. The compensation feature is described, and typical results of the program to stabilize the klystron frequency are presented."
"This report presents the second half of results of a study on the peripheral ear. There are two objectives: (1) to derive computational models for approximating the mechanical displacement of the basilar membrane when the sound pressure at the eardrum is known, and (2) to demonstrate certain relations between subjective behavior measured experimentally and physiological behavior calculated from the models. The report describes a rational function approximation of middle-ear transmission. This result, in combination with previously derived models for the inner ear, permits an analytical approximation of basilar membrane displacements in both apical and basal regions. Because the models are rational functions, they can, if desired, be simulated by lumped-constant electrical networks. Their computational tractability also permits straightforward approximations to temporal and spatial derivatives of displacement. Relations between computed membrane displacement and subjective behavior are illustrated for several psycho-acoustic phenomena, namely pitch perception, binaural lateralization, binaural time-intensity trade, threshold discrimination, and pure-tone masking. The extent to which some of these phenomena can be correlated with, identified in, and predicted by the mechanical operation of the peripheral ear appears to be substantial."
"The coupled line equations for only two modes, representing the TE01 signal mode and a single spurious mode in circular waveguide, are solved in series form by the method of successive approximations. Bounds are found on the magnitudes of the terms in the series solution. These bounds decrease rapidly only for “short” waveguides; for long guides many terms of the series must be included in the solution. The coupled line equations are transformed to a new form, in which one of the unknowns Λ is given by Λ = −ln G0, where G0 is the (complex) TE01 transfer function of the original coupled line equations. Thus Re Λ = −ln | G0 |, the TE01 loss in nepers, Im Λ = −∠ G0, the TE01 phase in radians. These transformed equations are again solved by successive approximations; the first term is the commonly used solution that has been obtained by physical arguments. Bounds are determined for the magnitudes of the terms in these series solutions; for a suitable restriction on the coupling coefficient that includes many cases of practical interest, these bounds decrease rapidly for long guides. In present calculations of the TE01 loss statistics in random guides, only the first term of the series expansion for Λ is considered. Unfortunately this approximation has not so far been justified."
"The effects of random geometric imperfections on the transmission of the TE01 wave in circular waveguide are studied; the necessary theory of guides with known arbitrary imperfections is first developed. The TE01 transmission statistics are determined in terms of the statistics of the various types of geometric imperfections. Both discrete mode converters — i.e., localized imperfections such as tilts, offsets, or diameter changes at joints between pipes that are perfect right-circular cylinders — and continuous geometric imperfections — such as straightness deviation, diameter variation, ellipticity, etc., that vary smoothly with distance along the guide — are considered. The average, variance, power spectrum, and probability distribution of the TE01 loss-frequency curve are discussed. Continuous straightness deviation (of the individual pipes of the guide) appears to be the most serious tolerance in present copper waveguide, and a significant factor in helix guide as well. The power spectrum of the straightness deviation is all-important in determining the TE01 loss due to mode conversion. Fourier components of straightness deviation having wavelengths between roughly 1.4 and 4.4 feet are the significant ones for the present 2-inch I.D. guide operated in a frequency band from 35 to 90 kmc."
"A class of three-stage connecting networks proven rearrangeable by D. Slepian is considered. Bounds on the number of calls that must be moved are obtained by some simple new methods."
"A set has been developed to measure the parameters of insertion loss and phase shift of communication systems components. The design effort has been directed toward achieving laboratory precision in measurement and at the same time maintaining the ease of use and speed necessary for a large volume of measurements. Accuracies of ±0.002 db, ±0.02 degree and ±1 cycle have been attained over the frequency range from 10 to 300 kc. The entire frequency range is covered without band switching by the use of a heterodyne signal oscillator which provides frequency accuracy by locking to a frequency standard. The principle of phase detection is based on measurement of the time interval corresponding to the displacement of sine wave zero crossings caused by the unknown. This method has the advantage of good accuracy inherent in the measurement of time by counting techniques and also the ease of automatic readout of phase shift by translation from time units. In measuring loss, use of a rapid sampling technique to compare the unknown with a standard eliminates errors caused by circuit drifts."
"This paper presents the results of a two-part analytical study of the stresses produced when ceramic cylinders are butt sealed to metal washer plates. Such stacked structures are of increasing importance in the fabrication of encapsulations for electron tubes and semiconductor devices. Practical experience, rather than analysis, has shown the advantage of a balanced seal and it is now in common usage in the electronic industry. In some applications other requirements may prevent direct back-to-back balancing and the question arises as to how much the diameters of the opposing seals may differ and still give the desired balanced effect. In Sections 3.1, 4.1, and 5.1 this question is considered and the concept of a balanced seal is placed on a firmer basis. The results indicate that a small difference in the radii is to be preferred. The effect of the length of an intermediate cylinder on the stresses in a three-cylinder stacked structure is considered in Sections 3.2, 4.2, and 5.2."
"Theorems are proved which completely characterize in an explicit manner the class of immittance matrices realizable with lossless reciprocal elements and a tunnel diode represented by the three-parameter “LC, — R” model. Techniques are presented for the synthesis of any immittance matrix within this class. Considered first, from a scattering matrix viewpoint, are the so-called degenerate cases in which the immittance matrices of the lossless network do not exist. Throughout the remainder of the discussion it is assumed that the lossless network possesses an immittance matrix. Necessary and sufficient conditions, involving in a complicated manner the existence of a certain strict Hurwitz polynomial, are derived for realization with a wide class of terminations. A study of the existence of this polynomial for the particular terminations of interest leads to explicit realizability conditions."
"A formula for the probability of stimulated emission of Bremsstrahlung is derived. It is shown that stimulated emission occurs if the incident electrons travel in a direction roughly parallel to the electric field vector of the wave stimulating the emission. Emission from free electrons is used in electron tube devices. The purpose of this paper is to show that stimulated emission occurs already in the elementary process of the encounter of one electron and one nucleus or ion. There is no need for a slow-wave structure or elaborate electron bunching and no need to consider phase relationships. This elementary effect of stimulated emission should lead to a type of oscillator and broadband amplifier working without slow-wave structures or need for the close mechanical tolerances of high-frequency klystrons. A device of this kind may be noisier than a conventional maser. It may be that the effect discussed in this paper is responsible for some of the hitherto unexplained semiconductor diode oscillations which have been reported in the literature."
"Penetrating radiation in the form of high-energy electrons, heavy particles, and gamma rays may be used to determine minority-carrier diffusion lengths in semiconductor materials containing junctions by measuring the radiation-induced short circuit current. The electron-beam method yields an accurate absolute determination of diffusion length once the carrier-generation rate as a function of depth in the material has been measured. A series of such experiments is described for silicon solar cells utilizing electrons ranging in energy from 0.61 Mev to 1.16 Mev. A resultant maximum generation rate of 2.25 × 106 ± 5 per cent carriers/cm per incident 1 Mev electron is obtained at a depth of 0.096 gm/cm2. Measurements with 16.8 Mev and 130 Mev protons, and Co60 gamma rays are found to be in good agreement with the electron-beam measurements. An experimental arrangement is described which yields rapid and accurate diffusion-length measurements of solar cells under conditions in which radiation damage is negligible."
"Thickness variations of the lining and deformations of the cross-section couple circular electric waves to unwanted modes and degrade transmission characteristics. Generalized telegraphist's equations for lined waveguide with these imperfections are found. The most critical interaction is caused by lining variations of circular symmetry between TE01 and higher circular electric waves. Because of such interaction the average TE01 loss is increased and signal transmission is distorted. More serious than signal distortion is the increase in average loss. In $2^{\\Prime}$ I.D. copper waveguide with a $0.01^{\\Prime}$ lining, the rms of a typical thickness variation should stay below $0.002^{\\Prime}$ for the TE01 loss at 55.5 kmc not to be raised more than 10 per cent. Cross-sectional deformations in lined waveguide cause nearly the same increase in loss and signal distortion as in plain waveguide. Tolerances for such deformations should therefore be the same as in plain waveguide."
"In a communications system which uses satellites in uncontrolled orbits, there would be times when the communication between two stations would be interrupted because no satellites would be in view. This paper provides material which can be used to describe the service which a random system of satellites would provide. An example system which could be used to provide initial world-wide service is also discussed. This system has certain nonrandom characteristics, and the effect of these characteristics on the service to various parts of the world is examined by computer simulation."
"In satellite systems in which the relative positions of satellites are allowed to vary, there will be periods during which no service will be provided between given ground stations. Such periods are called “outages” and the intervals between successive outages are called “innages.” Here the outage and innage time distributions are studied with the help of an analogy between a satellite system and a traffic system. The arrival of a customer in the traffic system corresponds to a satellite coming into view, and the service time of the customer corresponds to the time the satellite remains in view. In particular, the methods of analysis developed for traffic systems are applied to determine an approximation for the distribution of innage lengths."
"This issue marks the 40th anniversary of the Bell System Technical Journal, which has been published continuously since July, 1922. Through these 40 years B.S.T.J. has had one basic purpose: to be a journal of definitive technical papers that help to record the progress of Bell System communications. The B.S.T.J. is thus an important factor in carrying out the Bell System policy of prompt publication of new research development and systems engineering knowledge."
"This paper deals with the problem of maintaining the most complex portion of an experimental electronic telephone switching system, the central control. New and more effective automatic trouble detection and diagnostic techniques were used. In order to utilize these techniques effectively, a maintenance dictionary, i.e., a table relating trouble indications with corresponding faulty plug-in package, had to be produced. The system itself was utilized to create this dictionary. Over 50,000 known faults were purposely introduced into the central control to be diagnosed by its diagnostic program. The corresponding test results were then recorded via a high speed output. Finally, these test data were sorted and printed in dictionary form by a computer."
"A connecting system consists of a set of terminals, a control unit for processing call information, and a connecting network. Together, these three elements provide communication, e.g., supply telephone service, among the various terminals. In this paper we present a comprehensive view of the theory of connecting systems, an appraisal of its current status, and some suggestions for further progress. The existing probabilistic theory is reviewed and criticized. The basic features of connecting systems, such as structure, random behavior, complexity, and performance, are discussed in a nontechnical way, and the chief difficulties that beset the construction of a theory of traffic in large systems are described. It is then pointed out that despite their great complexity, connecting systems have a definite structure which can be very useful in analyzing their performance. A natural division of the subject into combinatory, probabilistic, and variational problems is drawn, and is illustrated by discussing a simple problem of each type in detail."
"A connecting network is an arrangement of switches and transmission links allowing a certain set of terminals to be connected together in various combinations, usually by disjoint chains (paths): e.g., a central office, toll center, or military communications system. Some of the basic combinatory properties of connecting networks are studied in the present paper. Three of these properties are defined informally as follows: A network is rearrangeable if, given any set of calls in progress and any pair of idle terminals, the calls can be reassigned new routes (if necessary) so as to make it possible to connect the idle pair. A state of a network is a blocking state if some pair of idle terminals cannot be connected. A network is nonblocking in the wide sense if by suitably choosing routes for new calls it is possible to avoid all the blocking states and still satisfy all demands for connection as they arise, without rearranging existing calls. Finally, a network is nonblocking in the strict sense if it has no blocking states. A distance between states can be defined as the number of calls one would have to add or remove to change one state into the other. This distance defines a topology on the set of states. Also, the states can be partially ordered by inclusion in a natural way. This partial ordering and its dual define two more topologies for the set of states. The three topologies so obtained are used to characterize (i.e., give necessary and sufficient conditions for the truth of) the three properties of rearrangeability, nonblocking in the wide sense, and nonblocking in the strict sense. Each of these three properties represents a degree of abundance of nonblocking states; the mathematical concept used to express these degrees is the topological notion of denseness."
"An analysis technique is presented to provide an essentially explicit solution for a system of n simultaneous first-order linear differential equations with periodic coefficients. This representation of a periodic variable-parameter linear system of arbitrary finite order is chosen for its theoretical and practical advantages over the classical nth order linear differential equation. Emphasis is placed on natural mode solutions of a homogeneous set of equations. The characteristic exponents for these solutions are determined from a polynomial equation the coefficients of which are linear combinations of n — 1 convergent infinite-order determinants. Approximate calculation of these determinants is feasible for problems of moderate order."
"The purpose of this paper is to examine the mathematical truth in the engineering intuition that there are approximately 2WT independent signals ϕi of bandwidth W concentrated in an interval of length T. Roughly speaking, the result is true for the best choice of the ϕi (prolate spheroidal wave functions), but not for sampling functions (of the form sin t/t). Some typical conclusions are: Let f(t), of total energy 1, be band-limited to bandwidth W, and let $\\int_{-t/2}^{t/2} \\vert f^{2}(t)\\vert dt = 1- \\epsilon_{T}^{2}$. Then ${\\rm inf}\\limits_{\\{a_{i}\\}} \\int_{-\\infty}^{\\infty} \\left\\vert f(t)- \\sum_{0}^{[2WT]+N]} a_{n}\\varphi_{n}\\right\\vert^{2} dt \\lt C_{\\epsilon_{T}^{2}}$ is (a) true for all such f with N = 0, C = 12, if the ϕn are the prolate spheroidal wave functions; (b) false for some such f for any finite constants N and C if the ϕn are sampling functions."
"This article presents an iterative technique for simplifying Boolean functions. The method enables the user to obtain prime implicants by simple operations on a set of decimal numbers which describe the function. This technique may be used for functions of any number of variables."
"The theory of the confocal resonator is extended to include the effect of unequal aperture size and unequal radii of curvature of the two reflectors. The latter is equivalent to a periodic sequence of lenses with unequal focal lengths. This treatment is in Cartesian coordinates as previously used. In an appendix the modes and resonant formulas are written in cylindrical coordinates. The effect of unequal aperture size of the two reflectors is shown to produce mode patterns of unequal size on the two reflectors of a confocal resonator. The previous computations for diffraction losses are found to be applicable. Generalization of the theory to the case of reflectors of unequal curvature shows the existence of low-loss regions and high-loss regions as the reflector spacing is varied. One of the high diffraction loss regions occurs when the reflector spacing is between the two unequal radii of curvature. Such a region is interpretable in terms of instabilities in a periodic sequence of lenses of unequal focal length. An estimate of diffraction losses is obtained for the low-loss regions. The presence of a high diffraction loss region or unstable region should be of importance in the design of resonators or of a periodic sequence of lenses."
"The basic ideas leading to a unidirectional traveling-wave optical maser are presented. Experimental data on the performance of pulsed ruby amplifying sections and high density PbO glass Faraday rotation isolators are given. Feasibility tests on a two-section device have been made and are in agreement with predictions. Some remarks are made concerning image definition, channel capacity, noise and pump power requirements."
"The recorded error data from a field testing program reported on by Alexander, Gryb, and Nast have been further analyzed. New methods of analysis have given more information on the causes and nature of errors experienced by data in the switched telephone plant. The results obtained will enable workers in the field of error control to use the field test data more effectively. The ideas presented will be useful to designers of future field tests."
"The dual use of trunks for both direct and store-and-forward (S/F) traffic makes high trunk efficiency possible. The resultant trunk savings are important in communication systems in which long-haul trunks contribute heavily to the cost of the system. This paper reports work on the computation of trunking tables that could be used to engineer trunk requirements for prescribed loads and distributions of direct and S/F traffic. A method of computation and some specific results in terms of grade of service of direct traffic and traffic capacity for S/F traffic are presented. The numerical results are for two to forty-eight trunks. The results apply to the case of exponentially-distributed holding times of both the direct and the S/F traffic."
"TASI (Time Assignment Speech Interpolation) has been in service on transatlantic submarine cable channels since mid-1960. Measurement of service quality on one TASI system (White Plains-London) indicates that system performance equals or exceeds the original engineering objectives in all but a few cases. Field modifications now being made should bring these exceptions into closer agreement with objectives. A companion paper4 discusses in detail the design considerations for TASI speech detectors and describes subjective tests made to determine the maximum permissible loading of TASI circuits without impairment of service."
"This article describes tests made to select design parameters for the speech detectors in the TASI system. Results of subjective tests carried out to determine maximum permissible loading of TASI circuits during busy hours are also described. Finally, conclusions drawn from observations on a working TASI system are given. These observations indicate that TASI is a more satisfactory method of increasing transatlantic cable capacity than alternate methods, such as the use of 2-kc channel banks."
"In the above paper,1 Kleinman and Kisliuk state that “Fox and Li have investigated these configurations and the corresponding frequencies and losses for interferometers consisting of perfectly reflecting plates in air. In the usual laboratory interferometer the Fox and Li modes cannot be resolved because of insufficient reflectivity of the plates. Therefore the role played by these modes in optical masers is not sttled.”"
"An experimental 24-channel pulse code modulation system employing solid-state devices is described. Economy of design and ability to operate over existing exchange cable were dominant factors in selection of system organization and circuit alternatives. System requirements are unique to this type of system. Design considerations in meeting these requirements are presented in brief here and in detail in companion articles."
"Designed for use on unloaded exchange cable, this repeater was developed to satisfy the transmission requirements of an experimental PCM system. It utilizes a pulse repetition frequency of 1.544 mc, and 6000-ft repeater spacing. Functionally, the repeatered line transmits the PCM signal without appreciable degradation over distances up to 25 miles, a feat accomplished by retiming and reshaping the signal at each repeater point. Retiming is accomplished by means of a clock extracted from the signal; reshaping is accomplished by regeneration with positive pulse width control. Near-end crosstalk and pulse train jitter dominate the design parameters. Timing is made tolerant of near-end crosstalk by choice of bipolar transmission (where successive marks are of opposite polarity) with clock derived from the rectified and clipped signal. Tolerance in the decision circuit is obtained by automatic threshold control, spike sampling, and tight control of time and voltage parameters. Accumulated pulse train jitter is controlled to the extent dictated by the terminal equipment, principally through control of the bandwidth of the clock circuit. Seven diffused-base transistors and ten logic diodes are used in the oneway repeater circuit. A two-way repeater consists of two such circuits with a common power unit, utilizes 135 components, and is packaged in a can of $1{1 \\over 16} x 3{1 \\over 8} x 5{3\\over 4}$-inches outside dimensions. Accommodations are made for line-length and power options, as well as remote testing. Power for the repeater is transmitted over the signal pair. One watt is required for the two-way repeater."
"Attention is focused on the choice of a code for transmitting a PCM signal in the exchange plant via paper-insulated cable pairs. Inter- and intra-system crosstalk via near-end coupling is the principal source of interference. A code and repeater structure for reconstructing this code to minimize the effect of crosstalk into the timing channel of a reconstructive repeater is emphasized. It is shown that the conventional self-timed unipolar repeater is not suited to this environment. Several pseudo-ternary codes are developed and surveyed for overcoming crosstalk interference. A bipolar code and a repeater for reconstructing this code are chosen for a variety of reasons. The repeater features nonlinear timing wave extraction and complete retiming and pulse width control, and its realization is discussed in detail in a companion paper by J. S. Mayo.3"
"This paper discusses the performance of a practical PCM terminal for time-division speech transmission. Limitations which make performance different from more conventional frequency-division systems are considered. Particular emphasis is placed on limitations resulting from nonideal circuits and signal conditions. Both analytical and experimental results are presented with comparisons given where appropriate."
"The heart of the terminal for an experimental PCM system developed at Bell Laboratories is the “companded coder,” which consists of a logarithmic instantaneous compandor plus a linear (equal-step) coder. The companded coder plays a major role in determining the over-all performance of the $1{1\\over 2}$ megabit system. This paper includes a discussion of the fundamental design concepts, the practical realization and the performance of the all-semiconductor equipment that performs the analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog conversions for the PCM terminal. The instantaneous compandor employs matched semiconductor diodes to obtain a logarithmic gain characteristic. A 7-digit network type coder performs the conversion of the signal from analog to digital form and vice versa."
"A variational formulation for deriving bounds on the capture (pull-out) range of phase-controlled oscillators is developed. This technique is applied to the more common types of systems, viz., those involving symmetric comparators and simple lag-RC filters. Exact asymptotic capture expressions relating to the simple RC filters with small bandwidth are obtained."
"Tychonov's fixed point theorem is used to study the existence of ultimately periodic solutions of an integrodifferential equation that arises in the theory of the phase-controlled oscillator. The principal result describes conditions under which solutions of the equation exist which have a given ultimate period T, not necessarily the minimal period."
"This is the first of two papers dealing with single server systems. Two subjects are discussed in the present paper, (i) relations between such items as the probability of loss, probability of no delay, and the average number of customers served in a busy period, and (ii) the statistical behavior of a single server system in which no waiting for service is allowed."
"This is the second of two papers dealing with single server systems. Statistical problems associated with the busy periods, i.e., the periods during which the server is continuously busy, are considered in the present paper. The input and the service time distributions may be quite general, and the length of the waiting line is unrestricted. Among the new results is an asymptotic expression for the probability density of the lengths of the busy periods. This expression holds when the arrival rate is almost equal to the service rate and when the busy periods tend to be long. It is hoped that the methods used here will throw additional light on known results."
"At a telephone exchange, calls appear before a simple trunk group of m lines in accordance with a recurrent process. If every line is busy, calls are delayed. The call holding times are mutually independent random variables with common exponential distribution. In this paper, methods are given for the determination of the distribution of the delay for a stationary process and various orders of service. Three orders of service are considered: (1) order of arrival, (2) random order, and (3) inverse order of arrival."
"This article presents a brief historical background to the A-series of terminal units, used extensively in long-haul and short-haul transmission facilities to provide the first step of modulation from voice to carrier and the final step of demodulation from carrier to voice. Most of the paper is devoted to a description of the latest unit of this series — the A5 channel bank, which through the use of transistors and other modern components achieves significant improvements in size, power requirements and operating characteristics."
"In the field of microwave tubes, the cold test plays an important role. However, no attempt in this direction has been made for the variable capacitance amplifier. It is the purpose of this paper to present the theory of a cold test procedure for parametric amplifiers. The cold test is essentially the measurement of the impedance locus of the input, the output and the pump circuits under the no-pump condition, with the diode bias voltage as the variable parameter. From these impedance loci one can evaluate all the important circuit parameters of the equivalent circuit of the parametric amplifier, including the value of the dynamic quality factor of the diode. Using these data, it is relatively easy to design or adjust the circuit so as to give the best noise performance. Since the theory of the cold test procedure neglects the effects of (1) higher harmonics, (2) any parallel conductance of the diode, and (3) circuit losses, the validity of the theory can be established only by experiment. For this reason, this paper also presents some of the experimental results obtained with a 6-kmc degenerate amplifier. The correlation between theory and experiment has proved to be excellent."
"In many commonly used frequency-shift modulators, a phase error occurs at the time of switching. If a demodulator is used which utilizes only the zero-crossing information, then this phase error will cause time jitter in the received data transitions. The magnitude of the peak time jitter for various modulators is derived, assuming an ideal zero-crossing detector. The modulators considered include the reactance tube and variable reactance modulators, the basic switched reactance modulators, and the multivibrator modulator. It is found that the switched reactance modulators cause the most jitter, and that the multivibrator modulator may be designed to cause as small a jitter as desired. The theory agrees well with some experimental measurements made on existing data sets, which show that this jitter accounts for most of the back-to-back data distortion in many wideband data systems. Finally, a set of sufficient conditions is derived for jitter-free frequency-shift modulation, and an implementation of a modulator satisfying these conditions is described."
"This paper is concerned with the scheduling of pole line inspections. The schedules are based on the physical lifetime distribution of pressure-treated southern pine poles, which constitute some eighty per cent of the current telephone pole plant. Results of studies described herein indicate that for scheduling purposes the physical lifetime distribution of such poles is adequately described by the lognormal density function. Supporting evidence includes the observation that sound older poles seem no more prone to failure than younger poles. As a consequence, there appears to be no need to decrease the intervals between inspections as poles age. Quality of treatment — particularly the amount of preservative retained — appears to be of primary importance in determining the physical lifetime of poles. The relative influences of environmental factors such as temperature, humidity, rainfall, soil conditions, length of growing season, etc., have not been adequately evaluated; however, for a given quality of treatment, poles tend to last longer in the North than in the South. Consequently, for pole lines in the South, inspections are scheduled earlier in the life of a pole and at shorter intervals thereafter than for similar pole lines in the North."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of obtaining minimum-state sequential circuits for incompletely specified flow tables. Attention is directed to relay-type flow tables in which the only unspecified entries are those which occur because of restrictions on the allowed input-variable changes. For this type of flow table it is shown that a simplified version of the Unger-Paull procedure is sufficient. In particular, only maximum compatibles need be considered in forming the minimum-state sequential circuit."
"The pulse displacements produced by timing errors in a chain of regenerative repeaters (using tuned-circuit timing filters) are represented by a linear transformation of the pulse displacements at the output of the first repeater. To facilitate the discussion of the general problem, the simpler case of periodic pulse trains is considered first. For this case it is shown that while the mean value tends to infinity, the central moments of the pulse displacements remain bounded as the number of repeaters approaches infinity. Further results are obtained, which show that all the moments of the spacing jitter remain bounded for an indefinitely long string of repeaters. Finally, the misalignment in the jitter at any given repeater is represented by a simple expression which shows that the essential component in the misalignment is flat delay. The general problem of random pulse trains, infinite in length, is discussed in Part II in this issue. The results obtained for the general case are quite different from those obtained for the periodic case. The variance is unbounded in this case except for pulse trains with certain special restrictions. The computational aspects for the evaluation of jitter accumulation will be discussed in a subsequent paper."
"The behavior of the timing jitter in a long chain of repeaters is shown to depend on the spectral properties of a linear operator which maps the space of bounded sequences into itself. As the number of repeaters increases indefinitely, so does the mean value of the jitter. The variation about this mean value remains bounded only for certain highly constrained pulse trains (e.g., periodic, finite, etc.), but it is otherwise unbounded."
"Space guidance and instrumentation have placed stringent demands on the pointing accuracy of tracking systems. One of the basic problems encountered is the calibration of the angle indicators of the tracking antenna to the true direction of the radio line of sight. A method of calibration is discussed which uses the sun as a primary directional reference."
"Integral representation of zero-memory nonlinear functions offers promise as an analytical method for nonlinear control systems study. A review of work performed at Bell Laboratories and elsewhere on the use of these representations is presented, with particular emphasis on nonlinearities often encountered in feedback control systems. In general, the integral representations are useful only insofar as the resulting expression can be readily evaluated. The use of Bennett functions systematized the formulation of these integrals. The numerical results of a large class of the integrals can then be given by the tabulated Bennett functions. A comprehensive bibliography is appended."
"The availability of reliable high-frequency solid-state devices and the application of new circuit concepts have made possible the development of completely solid-state IF and baseband circuits for the TL microwave radio system. These include (1) a 70-mc IF amplifier with 20-mc 3-db bandwidth, 105 db of gain, and 60 db of automatic gain control, (2) a remodulation-type limiter, (3) discriminator, automatic frequency control, and squelch circuits, and (4) two 6-mc baseband feedback amplifiers. All circuits have been designed to operate over a temperature range of at least −20°C to +60°C. It has been demonstrated that electrical performance comparable to or better than that obtained with electron tube circuits may be achieved while gaining considerably in power drain and reliability. The new circuit techniques and the design considerations which led to their development are presented."
"The radiant heat transfer between two parallel infinite plates was determined. The plates were assumed to be specular, anisotropic reflectors and emitters as characterized by the electromagnetic theory for highly polished electrical conductors. Numerical results are given for specific metals from 4.2 to 1500° K. Also, the results are expressed in generalized form for obtaining the net radiant heat transfer between any two parallel, infinite metal plates given only the temperatures and electrical resistivities. Total hemispherical and normal emissivities were determined using the same methods. The results were in very good agreement with empirical equations given in the literature. For a contrasting comparison, Christiansen's equation for the net radiant heat transfer between two parallel, diffuse, gray surfaces of infinite extent was evaluated using these emissivities. The values obtained were less than those computed for the net radiant heat transfer between specular plates."
"The history of 16mm and 8mm sound-on-film is given briefly as an introduction. Qualitative and quantitative techniques for examining the cross-section “azimuth-plateau” of magnetic-striping on 16mm and 8mm film are presented in detail. The azimuth-plateau is described and related to record and reproduce characteristics. The possible value to be found in standardization of the cross-section profile azimuth-plateau of magnetic-striping is discussed."
"Key TV is a form of subscription television directly applicable to wired systems but having broad possibilities in other fields. A major feature of Key TV is the participation equipment by which the TV audience can reply to questions from the central studio for purposes of entertainment games, direct merchandising, educational quizzing, opinion sampling, and others. A technical description of the system is given including the concept of serial query, preparation of punched-tape records of audience actions and computer use for monthly billing and reply processing."
"Some of the many requirements of pay television systems are reviewed together with the problems which must be considered when developing system standards and equipment. The problems range from system security to practical aspects of installation and operation. Some comparisons are made between closed-circuit and broadcast systems. The Telemeter closed-circuit system in Toronto is described and the paper concludes with a brief mention of Telemeter's activities in the field of broadcast pay-TV."
"A new video-recording camera design incorporates a shutter which spreads the “picture splice” over a time interval of about 40 video lines, resulting in the elimination of shutter-bar problems. An extremely rapid pulldown, required by the shutter design, is achieved by releasing energy stored in a spring. A fixed register pin locks the film during exposure to insure vertical steadiness."
"The “motor boat” effect it a spurious signal of low frequency caused by a defect in sound printing operations. One of the principal causes is abrasion or pressure marks caused by the perforations of the negative coming in contact with the print stock. A method of modifying a 16mm motion-picture printer to avoid this defect it described."
"A study has been made using high-speed photographic methods of the phenomena occurring when a solid surface is struck by a small mass of liquid moving at very high speeds. An apparatus has been constructed for projecting small (1 mm diameter) cylinders of water at solid surfaces at velocities up to 1000 m/sec. The flow of the liquid mass and the break-up of the solid target on impact have been photographed using a Beckman & Whitley rotating mirror camera (Model 189) and also a 6-spark Cranz-Schardin system. Schlieren and photoelastic techniques have been used to determine the stress distribution within the target material during impact. — By using these methods it has been possible to show that most of the deformation of the target is due to compressible behavior within the colliding liquid mass. Failure due to the shearing action of liquid flowing over the surface of the target and to the reflection and interference of stress waves in the target itself is also considered."
"The Bömelburg, Weske and Herzog method has been perfected for practical application in wind-tunnel work with 0.8-to 20-in. sparks. A pulse transformer of novel design permits powers up to 40 megawatts peak during each flash at up to 50,000 controlled discharges/sec. Higher rates are possible under free-running conditions. The discharge duration is 0.3 to 1 μsec. — Strobokin-controlled ultra-rapid spark discharges at 2000 to 300,000/sec are fed into the primary of a special pulse transformer whose essential component is a laminated sheet-metal core of hypersile sheets with Hostaphan insulation. A voltage of approximately 5 ko per turn on the primary winding gives a steep voltage step-up at the secondary, which with 75 turns, for example, produces a no-load voltage of 300 kv. — Owing to the short spark-discharge time, no picture blue results even at air speeds of several thousand fast per second. Although the luminance of the sparks is sufficient for high-speed photography, practical experience shows that their low energy does not cause thermodynamic disturbance of the airflow under observation. The lowest possible spark rate where no deionization occurs is 2000/sec. At 1-mm spark spacing, this corresponds to an air velocity of 2 m/sec, whereas the maximum spark rate of 300,000/sec at 20 mm from spark to spark corresponds to an air velocity of 6 km/sec, i.e. approximately Mach 18. Also, patterns of explosion and detonation shock waves and their subsequent eddy current: can be traced by the spark method outlined above."
"The usefulness of sine-wave response or, to use the recommended terminology, modulation transfer function, in evaluating optical and photographic systems experimentally is shown. The synthesis of a square wave from its Fourier components is demonstrated. The reasons for the pronounced influence of adjacency effects on the transfer function and the consequent usefulness of the latter as a measure of adjacency effects are explained."
"The system described is a unique and relatively simple combination of a fully coated 8mm perforated tape and 8mm motion-picture film introduced in synchronism to a magnetic path using a common sprocket for transport both in and out of the machine. It is possible, by selective switching, to play back any one of four soundtracks prerecorded on the tape. The continuous nature of the operation is provided for by an endless-loop type of magazine."
"In using a ¼-in. magnetic-tape music library in sound motion-picture production, the location of particular selections is often time-consuming and tedious. A simple electronic indexing system that eliminates the necessity of listening to audible cues is described. Desired selections may be located in the high-speed modes of the tape deck. This system with presently available tape decks, automatic threading and complete remote control, further enhances the musical scoring process."
"In a ten-year photographic project documenting the life and character of the bee, many of the more traditional aids for macro-realm photography proved to be inadequate. In particular, the demand for greater depth of field and for light sources that do not cook the bees encouraged a re-thinking of optical and illumination systems. The inefficiency of lens extension tubes and bellows was eliminated by the use of a supplemental lens arrangement. Stroboscopic light pulses synchronized with the camera shutter gave maximum photographic exposure with minimum heating of subject. In addition to the major improvement in optical/photographic efficiency, some very attractive operational advantages result as by-products."
"The introduction of compact filaments contained in compact quartz envelopes has provided an opportunity for the design of compact reflectors. The actual light source being, by necessity, at a rather large distance from the reflector causes optical inefficiencies. The theory of operation of the quartz iodine lamp and the development of filaments are described. The mathematics that led to the final reflector design are summarized and photometric results shown in graphical form. The system is planned for use in professional cinematography."
"This report describes the thermoplastic recording process. A number of specifications of a practical recorder are given, such as resolution sensitivity, developing time, erasing time, heating and cooling requirements, optimum film thickness, and optical light output. Of several pieces of equipment described, a portable video recorder and a radar display recorder are emphasized."
"From the history of the progress of the motion-picture industry and from the briefer and varying pattern of the television industry there emerges part of the basis for planning the education of future technicians. Recent scientific discoveries and new technological developments, current or potential, require educational emphasis on the physical sciences and on new techniques of recording pictures from motion."
"The history of the motion picture is the story of trial and error, of improvisation, of imitation and intuition. The apprenticeship system was, and largely remains, the usual method of learning motion-picture techniques. In the late 1920s and early 1930s a few universities began offering organized courses in film technique. Today, many educators and leaders in the motion-picture industry agree that the medium deserves serious and critical study, and that there is a critical need for a larger pool of talented young people who must be specially trained if we are to maintain our historic leadership in the motion-picture arts and sciences."
"The results of a survey of film teaching, conducted in 1959 and 1960 at the ten leading college film production centers, are reported. Data were gathered by personal interviews with 105 instructors and 10 administrators of the film teaching programs. Eleven subject areas, such as cinematography, writing, and directing, are analyzed from the point of view of what is taught, how it is taught, and how student achievement is evaluated."
"Television education encompasses, nationally, all aspects of the medium and the industry. Curricula are divided into 15 general categories and specific examples of courses offered under each are given."
"We can arrive at criteria for future successful curricula initially through a knowledge of past practices in motion-picture and radio education, and particularly through an examination of present intermedia relationships. These relationships have more than the obvious relevancy for teachers. They provide academically sound and professionally necessary guideposts leading to the goal of developing creative and well-rounded students who have been trained within the context of internally integrated curricula in motion pictures and television."
"Current 8mm cameras and sound projectors offer a practical answer to problems of mastering motion-picture planning and production procedures. Beginners can use simple 8mm equipment to develop ability, whereas production practice with 16mm or 35mm equipment may be prohibitively expensive or require technical skills the beginner does not possess. Techniques learned with 8mm can be transferred to the planning and production of 16mm and 35mm motion pictures."
"A handful of schools and colleges are beginning to make 8mm sound motion pictures for local use. Although it is too early to speak of trends, some sense of direction about the local production possibilities in schools can be gotten by looking at the practices of these pioneers."
"A survey was conducted during a period from 1960 to early 1962 among industrial and government users of high-speed photography to determine how the technique is being applied in the field. Statistical data, including most frequent application areas, range of frame rates, lighting requirements and film consumption, are presented and discussed."
"Still and cine cameras are classified according to speed and the systems particular to high-speed photography are outlined. Still systems include flash photography, rapid capping shutters, Faraday, Kerr-cell and image-tube shutters. Described are cine methods which use rotating-prism, rotating-mirror, image-dissection, image-tube and multiple single-shot cameras. Streak (or smear) cameras (rotating-mirror and image-tube) are also considered. Figure of merit comparisons, based on speed and information content, are made and physical limitations discussed."
"A brief and exploratory experimental study of explosive flashbombs used framing cameras at 240,000 and 1,020,000 frames/sec. All experiments used atmospheric pressure gas and 8 by 8-in. pads 2-in. thick of composition B 3 explosive. No important differences in the luminosity of xenon and argon were noted when the two gases were enclosed in separate aluminized plastic bags with acrylic resin windows, shocked by separate explosive pads. Sodium salicylate did not fluoresce sufficiently to augment an argon flashbomb's visible light output. As windows on argon flashbombs, vinylidene chloride and cellophane strips and tape became absorptive while glass and acrylic resin sometimes became frosted, depending on undetermined conditions. A faint precursor luminosity was observed ahead of the main luminous front in an argon flashbomb. It had an initial velocity of 13 mm/μsec, decreasing in 10 μ;sec to 7 mm/μ;sec. The main luminous front was studied using color film of ASA speed 25 in high-speed cameras at 240,000 frames/sec with aperture f/21, exposure time 0.8 μ;sec, and a filter of neutral density 1.5. Diffusely illuminated white paper was recorded with the same framing rate, exposure time, f-number and no filter, using color film of ASA speed 160."
"The photographic method of measuring hypervelocities provides the distinct advantage of direct observation of the object. The slit camera system described in this Journal in March, 1959, has been modified by the use of prisms rather than front surface mirrors to provide the simplicity and rigidity requisite to the experimental light gas gun system at the Frankford Arsenal. In this modified system little, if any, image distortion has been observed as a result of using two reflecting surfaces instead of four."
"A parallel capacitor/relay system designed to take a series of four stills of a motion pattern is described. The system is triggered by the subject, a frog, but the flash sequence or any individual flash is adjustable by the operator."
"Practical solutions to the inherent drawbacks of single-system production have been developed. The sensitometric disadvantages can be overcome by adjusted exposure of the picture and soundtrack, and the composite print editing need not present a problem if transitions are carefully planned. The desire to release live action film reports of current computer engineering developments necessitated single-system production at IBM's Poughkeepsie laboratory."
"In split-frame technique, the two halves of a negative or print are exposed separately. Through this technique, many of the unwanted variables of photographic tests can be eliminated. In tests of lighting, make-up, filters or cameras, for example, negative split-frame exposure permits common negative processing, printing, and projection operations. Split-frame printer tests permit comparison on common print stock of print processing and print projection, thus minimizing these variables. The convenience gained is that of side-by-side comparison without special projection equipment."
"Although the transverse track TV tape recorder is a complex machine containing a wide range of electronic circuits, transistors and transistor circuit developments have reached a point where it is feasible to utilize transistors and semiconductor diodes exclusively in the design of a new recorder. In addition to being an all-transistor design, the new recorder contains a number of innovations in operational facilities and advances in circuit technology that results in a new attainment in performance for TV tape recorders."
"Chemistry has played a major role in the development and perfection of modern color photographic systems which utilize color development to produce the dye images. The mechanisms of the reactions of color development are now known in some detail and the effects produced by side reactions are beginning to be understood. The factors influencing fidelity of color reproduction, speed-graininess, sharpness and dye image stability have been the subject of continuing chemical research. A review of some of this chemical research shows how it has led to a steady improvement in color photographic materials."
"Electronic engineers face the difficult task of developing television camera equipment necessitated by the trend toward automated television studio operation. Broadcast equipment to be used in an automated studio must meet two requirements: (1) a very short warm-up time, so that it may be turned on and off readily in accordance With the broadcast schedule; and (2) peak or optimum performance attained within this short warm-up time and maintained within the usual environmental changes for at least eight hours without any operator attention. This paper describes a theoretical and experimental study of the basic imaging process of television camera tubes and the performance variations caused by the slow variations of operating parameters. It is intended to serve as a basis for designing stabilized television cameras."
"The development of camera tubes and channels having improved performance and stability makes possible a considerably simplified vision operating technique: the so-called “hands-off.” This leads to economy in operating costs as well as improvement in picture quality. The influence of this concept on camera channel design is illustrated by reference to an image-orthicon channel and a telecine vidicon channel; its implementation at several studio centers is briefly outlined."
"Various technical factors affect the feasibility of broadcasting to the general public from satellites, the most satisfactory orbit for such satellites, and the order of satellite primary power that would be required for Band 7-MM (HF), Band 8-FM (VHF), Band 8-TV (VHF), Band 9-TV (UHF) and Band 10-TV (SHF) transmissions. These factors are discussed on the assumptions that no major changes will be made in present transmission standards, frequency allocations, or home receiving equipment; that equatorial synchronous orbit is considered the most satisfactory for broadcasting because it will permit uninterrupted transmission throughout the entire day and does not require complex tracking antennas for receiving, since a satellite in such an orbit remains stationary with respect to a given point on earth. — Chief among the many formidable technical problems still to be solved before high-quality broadcasting from space satellites can be considered feasible are the development of precise orientation and stabilization systems for accurately “aiming” the satellite's transmitting antenna, and the development of high-capacity power supplies and other system components of such size, weight and reliability that will permit continuous operation of a broadcasting station in a precise stationary orbit, without maintenance, for a period of time that will justify its operation economically."
"A Kerr-cell framing camera hat been designed incorporating a multifaced prism which directs a portion of the energy collected by a primary objective lens through each of six separate Kerr-cell shutters. Separate images of the same event from the same aspect and through the same set of optics are thus possible. Using established triggering techniques, framing rates to 108/sec are achieved at exposure times in the range of 5 to 10,000 nanosec. Exposure time and resolution are independent of framing rate."
"Use of a closed-circuit television system as the direct-imaging device in conjunction with x-ray as a radiation source has made possible an instantaneous, in motion, inspection system for studying materials and structures. The TV camera uses a small-area x-ray sensitive pickup tube as the sensing device. The x-ray image displayed on the monitor picture tube is enlarged approximately 30×. The system performance is equivalent to results obtained from conventional x-ray imaging techniques for material thicknesses up to ¼ in. of steel."
"The various systems for producing 8mm release prints from 16mm and 35mm originals are evaluated and rated according to quality and practicality. In comparison with an 8mm Kodachrome II original, all 8mm commercial prints are poorer for sharpness and overall quality. Optical release printing is required for acceptable quality in an 8mm print. Laboratory cleanliness and well-maintained printers are especially important in making 8mm prints. The use of Kodachrome II Film as a 16mm original for making 8mm prints is discussed, as are the merits and prospects for photographic soundtracks on 8mm prints."
"Low-level fog exposures have long been used in motion-picture printing as means of decreasing contrast. An analysis of this technique defines its effectiveness and suggests extensions and controls in its use."
"The new television broadcasting center for the Los Angeles area incorporates many new engineering developments to improve technical quality, increase reliability and simplify operation. Equipment includes a digital computer, for automatic control of switching of audio and video program material, and highly stable vidicon film cameras which require a minimum of operating adjustment. The facilities employ many innovations in plant layout, system design and installation practices. The video and audio facilities are described and the philosophy which led to the designs is set forth, with emphasis on the methods and features which are new."
"Imaginative equipment design can spectacularly reduce the time and labor required for rigging and adjustment of lighting. Considerations in lighting include dimming and control equipment; and suspension, hoisting and adjustment of luminaires. Problems of studio lighting are outlined and lighting equipments and methods in use in the BBC Television Centre in London are discussed in terms of theory, preliminary planning and techniques required for effective operation."
"Scenery handling is a much-neglected field. In many television studios methods of transporting and erecting scenery differ little from those used in the theater at the turn of the century. When the first four studios of the BBC Television Centre were placed in operation, methods and techniques adequate to modern requirements were devised for scenery handling. These have been so satisfactory that further studies are planned and it is expected that even more advanced techniques will be devised as additional studios are completed."
"For some years people have used image converter tubes for high-speed photography.1-21 An image converter tube will operate as an electronic shutter if the accelerating voltage is applied as a pulse of short duration. Equally, the image converter tube can be used as a streak camera by adding a time base and sweeping a slit image across the screen."
"The perception of discrete movement it related to visual angle, the angle subtended at the spectator by the displacement of the screen image between two successive frames. This paper determines the perceptual threshold of discrete movement in terms of visual angle for a limited set of conditions."
"A 16mm sound projector hat been designed for high fight output and high performance, and of rugged construction and light weight. Design objectives included convenience of operation and other features to achieve the overall goal of satisfying the largest possible group of equipment users and meeting their widely varied requirements."
"Recent developments in the field of fiber optics have made possible scanning and dissection of images with high spatial as well as temporal resolution. Such fiber optical configurations in the form of image dissectors are used for high-speed photography and other optical scanning systems. Experiments using the fiber optics image dissector for converting rectangular image format to a linear strip in conjunction with a rotating drum high-speed camera are described and photographs yielding time resolution of 10−7 sec and better have been achieved. Various other high-speed camera systems using fiber optics image dissectors and rotating drum or rotating mirror are described, and it is shown that high spatial and temporal resolution as well as a large number of frames are achieved. The possibilities of extending the spectral range of high-speed photography to x-rays and the ultraviolet and infrared regions using fiber optics are discussed."
"The newly practical field emission electron source has considerable radiographic significance in view of its very large current density, up to 108 amp/sq cm, or about a million times greater than that of the thermal emitter, heated wire, used in conventional x-ray tubes. As a result it is now possible to obtain high resolution radiographs, e.g. 2 mil, in very short exposure times of 30 nanosec. In one application, a sharp radiograph was obtained of 7-mil particles traveling at a velocity of 16,000 ft/sec. The present paper describes a new small portable x-ray system which was developed for very high radiographic information rates. It also reviews briefly the recent, but earlier, development of higher voltage equipments based on the T-F emission cathode which operates at intermediate current densities, e.g. 1000 amp/sq cm, and information rates."
"The Leningrad Institute of Cinematographic Engineers has for several years conducted theoretical and experimental studies of image dissection systems for high-speed photography. As reported at the Fourth International Congress on High-Speed Photography, the Institute developed in 1958 a lenticular plate image dissection camera having a photographing frequency up to 100 million frames/sec, and a reasonable optical resolution. — This camera was intended for photographing self-luminous processes such as flashtubes. The synchronization was determined by sending an initiating impulse from the camera to the object to be photographed. The duration of photographing was limited by the time of emission of the tube. Certain events cannot be controlled by transmitting an initiating impulse from the camera (e.g. the photography of the formation of an arc when high electrical power is switched off). The photography of processes of this kind requires cameras which can photograph at any time — cameras with continuous access. — A most rational system for an image dissection camera with continuous access comprises a uniformly rotating lenticular plate in the form of a disc with the lenslets located along Archimedean spirals. Lenticular plates of this kind are not manufactured at the present time. The authors have proposed a design for an image dissection camera with continuous access, where standard lenticular plates with lenslets located along parallel axes can be employed. — In 1959 this Institute developed the image dissection camera with continuous access, Type RKS-2 (PKC-2). The sequence is recorded on one or other of two photographic plates 130 mm by 180 mm. In front of each of these plates there is a lenticular plate which is given a reciprocating motion by means of a special cam. While one lenticular plate moves at a steady speed in front of the corresponding photographic plate, the second plate slows down, comes to a stop, and then starts to move in the opposite direction. — The light flux is directed by means of a mirror shutter to that dissection plate which, at the given moment, is moving at a steady speed. The time of photographing of self-luminous objects is limited by an electromagnetic shutter which receives an electrical impulse to start it from the object to be photographed. In the case of objects which are not self-luminous the exposure time is limited by the duration of brightness of the illuminating tube. The operation of the shutter or impulse tube is synchronized with the object to be photographed from the control unit of the camera. — The technical characteristics of the camera Type RKS-2 are: (a) The framing rate can be varied from 1000 to 100,000 sec−1 by control of the speed of the mechanism for moving the dissection plates. (b) The dissection plates have a hexagonal lenslet array. The pitch spacing is 0.7 mm. These plates are prepared by the All-Union Scientific Research Institute of Cinematography, Moscow. (c) The optical capacity* of the camera is at least 250 photographs. (d) The record is unscrambled on the camera itself. (e) The camera is provided with an electrical tachometer for measuring the framing rate."
"A high-speed x-ray flash system is described. The design includes a demountable x-ray tube with replaceable tungsten anode and replaceable Hostaphan x-ray window. The tube will emit x-rays for pulse voltages from 30 kv to 250 kv. It is driven from a pulse transformer, into the primary of which are fed controlled condenser discharges from 1 to 8 ioules. These primary pulses can be generated by a Strobokin ultra-rapid flasher unit. The distance from the x-ray source to the film is usually less than 200 mm. The pictures are recorded on film in a drum camera, and the frame height is fixed by lead masks. At the maximum flashing rate of 10,000 frames/sec, and with a film velocity of 100 m/ sec, 150 frames 10 mm × 35 mm may be recorded in a sequence. Examples of high-speed flash x-ray records are presented."
"A High Frequency Spark illumination system has been combined with a repetitively operated Kerr cell shutter. This combination makes a surprisingly versatile system. The basic idea is to cut off the leading and trailing edges of the sparks by means of the Kerr cell and to retain only the intense light peak. The duration of the spark before clipping is 0.5 microsecond. After clipping, the exposure is much shorter. We showed that it was possible in this way to improve considerably the quality of the pictures of very rapid events. The improvement was evident when one examined the frames separately, and also if they were projected as a slow-motion sequence. The extremely fast shuttering action of the Kerr cell makes it easy to record good photographs on film in an ordinary drum camera even for events that are ordinarily considered difficult to photograph. For example, self-luminous events can be recorded — and even those extremely difficult phenomena which start with a dark phase and progress to a luminous phase. Typical examples of this kind would be the deformation or the melting of fuses."
"An electronic editor for video tape has been developed that speeds up the editing process and produces a master tape with split-second change of picture content, but without overlap or loss of information. Operating procedure and components are described, and applications mentioned."
"A liquid immersion gate for the projection of 35mm motion-picture film is designed to be attached for demonstration purposes to a Model XL Simplex Projector. The frame being projected is held in sharp focus from center to edge in contact with thin layers of methyl chloroform liquid between glass plates. Drift out of focus is thus prevented, resulting in improved sharpness of the projected image. The appearance in the projected image of support scratches on the film is also greatly reduced. The auxiliary equipment required is contained in a separate portable service unit. The liquid used is contained completely in a closed recirculation system except for the escape of vapor to the exhaust pipe. Comparable improvements in image quality could be obtained in many important systems for projection display of film."
"The Society's Sound Committee and the 16mm and 8mm Committee have been engaged for the past 18 months in the establishment of essential standards for the development of all phases of 8mm magnetic sound motion pictures. The standards decided upon involve the production of special test films. The reasoning and logic involved in the formation of these standards and the preparation of the films are explained. Actions taken by the Committee in this area during the past two years are outlined. Production of these special test films involves the use of unusual techniques. Methods used to prepare these films are described."
"This third Interim Report brings up to date (as of January 1, 1962) and amplifies selected statistics contained in the comprehensive study of the nontheatrical film and audio-visual field published in the June 1959 issue of the Journal (pp. 387–392). It supersedes in part the Interim Report published in the January 1961 issue of the Journal (pp. 68–72)."
"The subjective effect of flutter on audio program is reviewed, leading to the concept of “flutter index.” This information is analyzed to show the validity of using a single number, flutter index, as a measure of the relative quality degradation imparted to audio recordings by the flutter in the measured equipment. A proposed IRE Standard on Flutter Index Measurement, based on the above information, is then discussed."
"The design and operation of an instrument for the oscilloscopic observation of frequency fluctuations in the output of sound reproducing equipment is described. The instrument indicates the instantaneous rather than the average or root-mean-square frequency deviation for test frequencies between 500 cps and 20 kc. A phase-locked loop permits automatic following of frequency drift over ±20% of the test frequency."
"The classic simplicity of the on-off switch undergoes considerable modifications for use on remote and/or unattended control cameras operated without the benefit of a human specialist. Discussed are the incorporation of design elements which, via sensed data on magnetic-striped film, are able to supply the camera with one-shot lubrication, set the selsyn-coupled zoom lens, provide continuous electromagnetic readjustment of the pulldown claw, start and stop the camera at preset intervals and, finally, make a record of all control functions executed by the system. This type of secondary intelligence is useful whenever a coherent performance record must be obtained over very long periods of time. The magnetic stripe is precoded with given audio frequencies under darkroom conditions and is read out by common pickup modes. Tuned resonators allow for proper discrimination and channel the cue to an associated electronic trigger."
"The processed motion-picture negative is considered as an object in an air medium. Because of the differing index of refraction between air and film, the surface can be optically important. The relation between smooth surfaces and Newton's rings is described. Effects of surface roughness from many sources are illustrated. The influence of printing conditions, including specularity, lacquer, and “liquid gate” is shown. A discussion of the effect of surface scattering on tone and color reproduction is given."
"Interpretation of the Tiros cloud pictures, taken from an altitude of 725 km above the Earth, depends upon the cloud brightness, texture, structure, pattern, shape, and the dimensions of the patterns and shapes. Methods of determining the location of the pictures and rectifying them to a suitable scale to obtain dimensions, patterns and shapes are discussed. Transmission to the weather services, the use of grid overlays, the production of rectified photographic mosaics, and a cloud identification guide are described. Methods of automatically obtaining brightness, which may prove feasible for routine use, are shown."
"A three-stage image-converter tube is used to obtain sequences of high-speed photographs of fast low-brightness phenomena. The image converter has a light gain of 8000 ×. Mismatched coaxial cables are used to generate the deflection and shutter pulses. The framing rates range from 106/sec to 108/sec. Exposure times can be as large as the interframe times, or as short as 5 × 10-9 sec. The number of frames in a sequence can be from 6 to 15. The apparatus has been used to study electric discharges in vacuo when nondestructive current pulses are passed through fine metallic wires. Examples of the recorded sequences of pictures are presented."
"A cable-shaped Kerr-cell shutter has been constructed, using solely plug-in parts. A delay cable, with built-in pressure spark gap, forms a square pulse of 40 kv and 50 mμsec duration. This pulse passes without reflection through a flexible 15-ohm cable and one or several Kerr cells, interconnected by flexible cables, and then the pulse disappears in a terminal resistor. This device features a square shuttering characteristic and great mobility. Multiple cells permit simultaneous photography of a subject from several angles. Using delay cables the Kerr cells operate at preset intervals depicting successive stages of the event. — Owing to the very low capacity of the pulse-forming cable, recharging of the system is rapid; thus the picture-taking rate is limited only by the quality of the quenching spark gap. The pulse can also be guided through the cell along meander-shaped electrodes, making possible the construction of large-size cells. Delay units can also fire cell systems at any desired picture-taking rate. When synchronized with high-frequency spark light sources {such as the Strobokin ultra-rapid flasher) an appreciably shortened square exposure time is achieved. For the ultraviolet range a similar Kerr-cell system with phenyl isocyanate is available."
"A report of the technical decisions reached at the Fourth Meeting of ISO/TC 36, Cinematography, held at Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, Oct. 16–20, 1961. The history and organization of the Technical Committee are briefly described and the current proposals, recommendations and resolutions listed."
"With the great increase in interest in the potential economy of 8mm film and projectors it is essential to examine closely performance objectives and capabilities. The big need is standards — American Standards. There is a key and lock relationship among machine, film, screen and peripheral equipment. 8mm must do much better than it does now, and much better than 16mm in realizing a high percentage of the quality potential. Today, standardization is a formalized process in which the needs of users and of producers are translated into engineering terms, working through the member bodies of the American Standards Association. The promise of 8mm is great — what we need now is work to bring that future to pass. Let us design 8mm to be certain to work, not certain to just fail. The future is very rosy indeed if we eliminate the bottlenecks."
"A growing interest in the production of 8mm release prints is evidenced by many papers on this subject published during the past few years. These have dealt with the picture quality obtainable by various printing techniques and the sound quality obtainable by photographic and magnetic methods. Suggestions have been made for changes in perforation size to permit improvement of sound quality. These publications have emphasized the difficulties encountered in obtaining satisfactory quality in 8mm release prints, and have led us to consider many additional factors which may influence quality. Optimum utilization of the 8mm sound color print area requires consideration of such factors as minimum practical perforation size, optimum perforation pitch, maximum picture area and appropriate position of picture, type, positioning and economics of the soundtrack, and similar factors. A number of these factors are discussed. — Although many problems are anticipated in reaching a decision concerning a modification of the 8mm format to obtain improved picture quality consonant with a suitable soundtrack, it is felt that these can be resolved to afford better results than are obtainable using the present 8mm format. The study and evaluation of the many factors involved will require critical consideration."
"A perforator and printing equipment have been built to produce film in accordance with the proposed 8mm sound film standard shown on page 623 of the SMPTE Journal for August, 1961, which uses perforations 0.050 in. square and provides for a variable-density soundtrack 0.050 in. wide. Prints have been made on Eastman Color Print Film, Type 7383. Design and performance aspects are discussed."
"The use of 16mm sound release prints for large-scale business and educational film distribution has been challenged by the apparent savings offered by 8mm release prints with magnetic soundtracks. The authors propose a nonstandard use of 16mm, compatible with most existing sound and picture equipment, to effect considerable economies in shooting and printing. The proposed method retains the full 16mm frame and the standard width photographic track and achieves its savings by using an established slower projection speed."
"Teaching machines are a relatively new development offering much promise in improving educational practices. Using a variety of presentation modes and immediate reinforcement of appropriate behavior, they can be programed to teach while using the best educational and psychological principles. One estimate of the potential market, including programs and machines, is $100,000,000 for the period through 1965. 8mm film seems to offer the most promise for use in the more advanced teaching machines. An idealized 8mm film system, its functions and its cost are discussed."
"Two related problems effectively bottleneck expansion of film use in the church—the number of rental prints available from primary sources and the cost of release prints. Evidence that the cost of release prints in 8mm sound may be considerably reduced has led to an optimistic belief that these two related problems may be solved. But at the same time, 8mm raises the problem of how to introduce a new medium into a market (the church) that has no equipment for its use."
"8mm single-system sound-on-film techniques have been adapted to the production of on-the-spot news film inserts for TV programs. Available equipment has been used and new techniques developed. Advantages of the professional use of 8mm sound film are cited with particular reference to economy. The use of 8mm sound film to supplement existing methods of producing TV news programs is recommended, and the suggestion is made that such use would tend to stimulate development of equipment in the 8mm field."
"In the television coverage of sports and news events, frequently it is of interest to replay fast action shots at a slow rate in order to observe details not readily apparent in normal transmission. This cannot be accomplished conveniently with conventional intermittent projectors. An arrangement using continuous-motion projection is described which permits playback of 16mm film at rates as low as 4 frames/sec. Combined with TV film recording equipment and a rapid film processor, immediate playback to the television audience is possible."
"In Japan, when broadcasting foreign TV motion pictures, white Japanese letters explaining or translating the dialogue are superimposed on the film. It is often difficult to read the letters because of the variation of the brightness of the film scene. To make the white letters more clear and readable an electric device is used to edge each letter in black and also to maintain an even brightness where the letters are superimposed without affecting the brightness variation of the scene."
"This condenser microphone has a self-contained power supply and uses hearing-aid type batteries. Cable connection is by means of a conventional 2-conductor shielded cable. The microphone, already somewhat more directional than a unidirectional microphone, can be made still more directional by applying an 18-in. long tubular attachment weighing only 5 oz. Total weight of unit, including mounting and windscreen, is 1 lb 12 oz. Open-circuit output voltage at 250-ohm tap is 1.6 mv/dyne."
"A Mark II fiber optics image dissection camera has been built. It is in general principles similar to the Mark I camera described by J. S. Courtney-Pratt at the Fifth International Congress on High-Speed Photography, but it is larger, faster and more versatile. It has been used to take sequences of pictures at rates up to 100,000/sec using visible light, and at rates of a few thousand per second using repetitive flash x-rays. It will be possible to record sequences of x-ray pictures at rates as high as for visible light as soon as higher speed flash x-ray equipment is available since suitable fast decay phosphors have been found. There are 1800 fibers in the fiber optics dissecting block and therefore 1800 image elements per picture. Up to 85 pictures could be recorded in a sequence at the maximum rate without double exposure. Methods of unscrambling the composite record have been developed for direct viewing or for taking a series of stills or a motion-picture sequence."
"Educational TV stations have a problem of economically producing program material available within their area. This paper briefly outlines the methods used to produce, with portable-type equipment, three half-hour programs and the transfer of the edited video-tape material to 16mm projection prints."
"In an era of constant progression toward ultimate miniaturization of equipment, the splitting of standard films for sound recording is normal and consistent. Improved head gap to magnetic film contact and greater compliancy in the medium made possible more compact film transport components. These and other advantages of split 16mm are discussed."
"A frame-by-frame projection of motion-picture film is used in an analysis of the human masticatory cycle. The position of the jaw on each frame is digitized on IBM cards and the information from the cards is plotted electronically to form a graphic tracing of the jaw movement. A knowledge of jaw movement during mastication is important in determining the tooth form for both fixed and removable dental restorations."
"Various feature film techniques, such as process projection, traveling mattes, painted mattes, model and miniature and optical printing procedures, have been applied to low-budget production under the organization of the National Film Board of Canada. Some, steps in each process and their integration are explained."
"Process photography requires accurate film registration which must be correlated throughout associated special effects motion-picture equipment. The illustration indicates the orientation of the registration pins of Bell & Howell, Mitchell and Twentieth Century-Fox cameras, together with the corresponding optical and contact printing equipment."
"Two existing test methods for measuring retained chemicals in processed films and papers have been slightly modified and used to predict image instability during storage. One method is a titration and the other is a silver stain test that is measured densitometrically. The methods are relatively insensitive to time-lapse between processing and analysis. One practical application of the methods is illustrated by a survey of Eastman Color Films processed by 28 motion-picture film processing laboratories. It is recommended that the simpler of the two methods, the CD-Index method, be used by processors of Eastman Color Films as a measure of the effectiveness of washing. A CD-Index tolerance value indicative of satisfactory washing is suggested for the Eastman Color Films. It is further suggested that processors of other products apply one of these methods."
"A Kerr-cell shutter has been used in this laboratory for the photography of high-temperature, transient deuterium plasmas confined by magnetic fields. The inherent advantages of high resolution, short exposure durations, and reliability are valuable for this type of work. Photographs of plasmas produced by both linear and theta-pinch devices are shown."
"Methods and instrumentation for the determination of missile trajectory, attitude, warhead functioning and target intercept are discussed. Detailed descriptions are given of the IGOR, SMT, and RT-2 systems. The applicability of these instrument systems to other problems is shown, particularly in the field of space probe and satellite research."
"As an approach different from considerations of film lubrication and film properties which have been described in the past,1–3 some experiments have been made with materials other than steel. When used for projector film shoes, these materials prevent emulsion build-up and film “sticking.”"
"Coincidence of the fields of view of the photocell and film is important in automatically exposure-controlled cameras for certain types of scenes. The sensitivity of selenium photocells makes this difficult to achieve. The use of different focal length lenses and zoom-type lenses can aggravate the problem seriously. An 8mm zoom motion-picture camera is discussed which provides a solution to this problem."
"Ballistic cameras have been designed and their use planned at the Atlantic Missile Range to provide the basis for a new science, photogrammetric triangulation. Photogrammetric triangulation represents the only means of providing the accuracy needed to evaluate and calibrate sophisticated electronic guidance tracking systems required for the space and missile programs. The overall system is recognized throughout the missile industry as the “Range Standard.”"
"Recent advances in solid-state physics have provided the scientific community with a number of coherent light sources — lasers (or optical masers). This true light amplification, first demonstrated in ruby, is discussed in terms of the fluorescence process. The concept of a “light oscillator” is developed. Laser applications are in the fields of communications, laboratory research, photography, medicine and optical ranging."
"The performance characteristics of a $1{1\\over2}$-in. high-resolution vidicon are described and an insight is given into its design. Techniques of obtaining and measuring the high resolution are related. Ne values of equivalent resolution are developed. The electron optical design of the tube yoke and focus coil combination are shown to produce zero beam landing error, excellent geometry and uniform focus. Other factors that have guided the choice of the design features are the availability of 35mm lenses, adequate signal output level for wideband amplifiers and a compromise between sensitivity and lag."
"A simple technique is described for processing 12-in. strips of 35mm and 16mm black-and-white and 35mm color negative motion-picture films. Design parameters of the film-strip hanger are discussed, along with the procedure requirements necessary to maintain repeatable results which are comparable to those obtained with large, continuous processing machines. The processed film strips facilitate evaluation of exposure, lighting effects and composition of a motion-picture scene before the actual photography of the scene commences."
"Transistorized recorders have greatly reduced the requirements of camera drive power. A highly frequency-stable portable source of power has been developed. Batteries provide the power to drive a rotary inverter equipped with a centrifugal governor and a transistorized high-speed switching-type regulator. Output frequency is constant at 60 cps ±${1\\over2}$ cps. Adequate power to drive cameras under adverse conditions can be relied upon. Prior to describing the system, current motor types and power sources are reviewed."
"It is suggested that the SMPTE develop and provide a Standard Negative Test Film and a Standard Print-Test Film both standardized especially for cross-modulation characteristics, the print having minimum cross-modulation at a unified density. A method is outlined whereby each negative recorder preparatory to recording production sound negatives would be adjusted so that if its recordings were processed to certain specifications, it would produce negatives with printable characteristics identical to those of the Standard Negative. Similarly, each printer would have specularity of printing light adjusted so that when its Sound Negative Test Film prints were processed to certain specifications, the prints would have a unified density and minimum cross-modulation. With this method all negatives could be handled interchangeably and indiscriminately, from all recorders to all printers, with improvement in operating efficiency and economy."
"This Society plays an exact role in the establishment of American Standards in the motion-picture and television fields. To insure accurate, well-written documents to portray the technological agreement of good engineering practice, the Society has developed a system of engineering committees, each playing an important role in this carefully controlled standards program. The functions at each step in the progression from the proposed idea to the final approved American Standard are set forth."
"A random selection feature incorporated into the slide projector eliminates the necessity for keying magazines. The random access mechanisms (patent pending) are explained. Three projector models and various accessories are described."
"The Art Director's role and qualifications are outlined. Preproduction phases of art direction for motion pictures and television require choice of picture aspect ratio, color or black-and-white photography, and location or studio operation. Methods of creating environment in the studio by use of backings, back projection, traveling mattes or matte shots are outlined."
"The organization, activities and responsibilities of a major studio motion-picture set construction department are described. Reference is made to the relationships involved with other technical and production activities. Technological developments are cited, and trends in the use of such materials as polyesters, plaster, plastic and foamed fabricates are discussed."
"The function of the Staff Department is to provide structural units and parts wherever set design requires such items. Although plaster of Paris is still the basic working material for molds, casting and lay-up, a number of synthetic materials have been added over the past years, such as vinyl hot melts for flexible molds and various thermosetting plastics. Facilities, techniques and materials in staff operations are discussed and examples given."
"There are several techniques described for prop fabrication: thermoplastic sheet forming, sponge-rubber and foam rubber molding, leather working, pouring plastic breakaways, for improvising miniatures, trick props and mechanized props. The various functions and facilities of the propmaking department are outlined."
"Paints and coatings are used in large quantities and great varieties for day-by-day requirements. They may serve decorative purposes or functional purposes such as flameproofing or corrosion protecting. Although standard commercial formulations are satisfactory for most applications, it is shown that coatings of unique properties are often required. The techniques of antiquing, creating metallic effects, preserving foliage, protecting props and structural units under water, and other challenges are discussed in detail. An outline of present equipment and materials and a forecast of certain trends are included."
"Progress and expansion of the craft are explained in terms of accomplishments over a 20-yr period. Chemicals and commercial equipment of recent formulation and design adaptable to the production of atmospheric effects are enlarged upon. Explosives, an integral part of this work, are discussed in terms of function, responsibility and safety. The effects of television and legal restrictions are also covered."
"The technical and artistic problems encountered in the production of high-grade color backings used to extend exterior and interior sets are described. A detailed report is given on the materials, tools and methods used in the preparation and finishing of backings for various purposes. Historical aspects and present problems confronting the scenic artist are included."
"The photographic properties of electrons accelerated by potentials below 50 kv have been investigated, with the general problem of data recording in mind. Recording systems using electrons directly for making the exposure offer advantages, particularly in speed, photographic resolution and absence of phosphor grain, over systems using conventional cathode-ray-tube photography. A strictly experimental system of this type has been developed for TV film recording."
"Classical principles of condenser design are cited as a point of departure for discussing Luneburg's criterion for assessing uniformity of illumination on the basis of calculations made from lens data. Attention is called to pitfalls, in the form of physical impossibilities, which can be avoided early in a design effort. A discussion of those features of an illuminating system that distinguish between an easy and a difficult design is included, along with some techniques for relieving the difficulties. Also included is a discussion of the influence of various types of light sources on the design."
"An electrostatically focused and magnetically deflected vidicon produced improvements in geometry and corner focus, in addition to providing a lightweight small diameter camera package. The tube, together with lightweight and small deflecting yokes, is well suited for transistorized cameras and employs a low heater-power gun for minimum current drain and low temperature gradients. The performance and design of the tube are described and compared to those of the magnetically focused vidicon."
"An outstanding gain in picture quality is realized with a new camera negative film, designated as Eastman Color Negative Film, Type 5251. This film is intended to replace the present Type 5250 film of the same name. It has the same speed as the present film but has substantially lower granularity and certain other characteristics that lead to better color reproduction in the final prints. Processing and printing procedures are the same as those required for the present film. Projection demonstrations illustrate the improvement in picture quality obtained through use of the new material both for prints made directly from the original negative and for prints made from a color duplicate negative."
"A new color print film, designated as Eastman Color Print Film, Types 5385 (35mm) and 7385 (16mm), has been designed to replace the present Type 5382 and Type 7383. The new film has approximately four times the effective printing speed of present materials with no sacrifice in granularity. Prints made thereon also show a slight improvement in picture definition. The increased speed is expected to benefit laboratories by providing greater production output or by overcoming difficulties associated with limited printer illumination levels. The film also incorporates modifications that result in better color reproduction."
"An explosive flashlight has been developed at Armour Research Foundation for use as an ultra-high-speed photographic light source. The flashlight consists of a long Plexiglas cylinder $\\frac{1}{4}$ in. ID by $\\frac{1}{2}$ in. OD; the inside wall is partially lined with Du Pont EL 506A-8 sheet explosive and the interior is filled with argon gas. The duration of illumination is controlled by the length of the cylinder; the light reaches the required intensity in 10 μsec and has no effective tail. The light intensity is sufficient for microsecond color photography. — The light source also has the advantages of being (1) easily handled (because of its light weight and the safety of Du Pont sheet explosive); (2) easily preassembled and stored; and (3) waterproof. Since the duration of illumination can be varied, the flashlight is an appropriate light source for photographic applications where the light duration must match varying event times. This flashlight has been used as a light source for the Beckman & Whitley Model 189 Framing Camera."
"The following topics are dealt with: temperature classification; insulating materials; insulation systems; temperature measurement; and equipment rating."
"Usual Temperature and Altitude Service Conditions-Equipment conforming to this Standard shall be suitable for operation at its standard rating, provided that:(a) The temperature of the cooling air (ambient temperature) does not exceed 40C if the equipment has copper-to-copper contacts or equivalent.(b) The temperature of the cooling air (ambient temperature) does not exceed 55C if the equipment has all contacts silver surfaced or equivalent, and in addition has all conducting joints, including terminal connections, either (1) Separately held mechanically, and either soldered or silver surfaced, or (2) Brazed, welded or silver soldered and provided that such operation does not result in temperatures in excess of 90C for class O, 105C for class A or 130C for class Β insulations.( c ) The altitude does not exceed 3300 feet (1000 meters)."
"The current issue of this Standard is a revision of the previous issue C62.1-1957 to change many of the definitions, to add a new definition titled \"Virtual Duration of Wave Front\" which changes the method of measuring time to crest value, to eliminate the word \"type\" from arrester classification designations as superfluous, to add a 10 kv distribution arrester and 90 kv intermediate and station arresters to the list of standard ratings, to change the standard ratings above 90 kv to multiples of 3, 6, and 12 kv, and to make many editorial changes for purposes of clarification or conciseness."
"This pamphlet serves as a guide in the preparation or revision of standards for testing or performance of apparatus or materials of specific types or fields of use. If a particular existing standard calls for other provisions, the existing standard should be followed. The values given are not mandatory, but are recommended for use in preference to other values unless there are good technical or economic reasons for using others. The values recommended have in general been selected to agree with well established practices particularly in the power and industry fields. Provisions are made for a great variety of conditions and for widely different apparatus and materials, some of which may be of practical importance only under unusual circumstances. In an individual standard, only those quantities of real practical importance in the particular case should be used. When ranges are suggested, it is generally with the thought that acceptance tests may be made within that range. Tests may be made outside the range, if acceptable, and agreed-upon correction factors are available."
"This standard covers all types of indoor and outdoor potheads for alternating-current circuits (see Table 3 for voltage ratings). So-called through-type potheads are not within the scope of this Standard. Potheads and component parts shall be capable of withstanding the tests specified in this Standard, when mounted for testing ill accordance with arrangements specified in the Test Code (Appendix I)."
"Presents the title page to the paper presented at this conference."
"The general format of the Digest has changed only slightly from last year. We have a single chapter encompassing “Molecular and Ionic Interactions in Chemistry.” One other change is to list the names in the references by last name first instead of first name or initial first. This change is made for ease in finding a reference."
"Presents the table of contents from this conference."
"No major breakthroughs are reported by our authors this year, although the total volume of the literature continues to rise. Considerably increased activity has been observed in certain areas, but this is the result of discoveries in the past. Thus, the frequency doubling of coherent light in piezoelectric crystals, discovered in 1961, has added impetus to the already fast-growing laser field. The discovery of the amplification of sound in semiconductors, also made last year, has resulted in a rash of papers in this area."
"The Electronics of Laboratory and Process Instruments, Griffiths and Lee1, provides material for the scientist, engineer, or technologist, with a background in general physics, to gain a working knowledge of the operation of some electronic instruments in general use in chemical and control laboratories."
"The order in which compounds are listed for this year's chapter is different from the past year's, being arranged by carbon and hydrogen numbers. However, cross reference lists are provided to facilitate searching for a particular chemical group. Chemical Abstracts for 1962 was the only guide used to find the references, and in most cases the values cited have been taken from the original literature."
"Past writers of this chapter have commented upon the difficulty of appropriate selection for the material to be covered. In concurring with this observation, I should further like to express my regret for the instances in which the usefulness of this article may have been curtailed by the particular selection made here. In reviewing a rapidly expanding field whose boundaries are at the same time coalescing with those of many related areas, omissions are inevitable, and coherence is likely to be perforated by discontinuities."
"The following papers which are not reviewed in the present survey, were presented at the symposium on Electrical Conductivity in Organic Solids held at Duke University, Durham, North Carolina on April 20-22, 1960."
"The 4th volume of Progress in Dielectrics1 was published in 1962 and this contained a very useful article by Dakin and Berg on the theory of gas breakdown.The important basic processes and breakdown mechanisms were discussed and attention was directed to conditions of technical importance. The article included important references to the literature published up to 1960. Radiative and collision processes involving atoms and molecules have been examined in some detail in a book under the editorship of Bates2. Of particular interest is a chapter on attachment and ionization coefficients by Prasad and Craggs3."
"Two discoveries noted in 1961 caused a flood of papers in 1962. Frequency-doubling of coherent light in piezoelectric crystals captured the imagination of scientists everywhere, and resulted in an almost unparalleled concentration of effort. In fact, it was felt necessary to devote a whole section to laser experiments with piezoelectric crystals. The other discovery was the amplification of sound in semiconductors, which was thoroughly described; other related phenomena were investigated."
"The monumental volume of polymer literature in 1962 has required rather severe selection. An effort has been made to include items of interest to those working with dielectric materials or in electrical manufacturing, and to exclude multiple coverage of the same material, unless the latter is included in a useful review article. A few references are included to new polymers of interesting structure but unknown physical and electrical properties. It is felt that the needs of the majority of readers are best served by a classification based primarily upon uses, properties and methods rather than upon chemical structure. Most resins will be found so classified. A division based upon chemical types has been used only for articles covering a variety of properties or uses for one class of polymers. Extensive cross references are provided under each heading."
"In this chapter, literature concerned with the dielectric properties and insulating applications of polymer films and fibrous materials is reviewed. In addition, articles concerned with the structure, stability, and environmental interaction of such materials are reviewed when the information may be pertinent to the understanding and use of insulating materials."
"For the preservation of consistency, this Chapter includes essentially the same topics contained in the Chapter on Liquid Dielectrics of the 1961 Digest. Certain 1960 and 1961 references have been included, which as far as could be ascertained, do not appear in the two previous Digests."
"A text emphasizing silicate technology, Ceramics, Physical and Chemical Fundamentals, was written by Salmang1. Chapter 12 is devoted to electrical insulators. Haase2 published Keramik, a text on ceramic technology containing a treatment of electrical ceramics with special reference to German practice. Progress in Ceramic Science - Vol. II, edited by Burke3 contains a chapter by Kingery on the thermal conductivity of ceramic dielectrics, including single crystals, polycrystalline bodies, and glass. Singer4 reviewed recent developments in the low-loss ceramics steatite, high-alumina, forsterite, wollastonite, anorthite, and synthetic mica."
"This chapter is a digest of the literature of 1962 on the applications of insulating materials and dielectrics to electrical machinery and devices. In addition to describing many of the uses to which insulating materials were applied, much of the literature dealt with the testing and evaluation of materials, insulating systems and electrical devices. Insofar as these play a vital part in the everyday work of the insulation engineer, they also make up a good part of the literature included here."
"The following topics are dealt with: inertial navigation equipment; accelerometer; and gyrocompass alignment and gyroscope."
"The purpose of this Standard is to formalize existing standards for 5-level perforated tape used in communications; to include standards for 6-level, 7-level, and 8-level tape which will be compatible with these 5-level standards, in order to prevent confusion and minimize possible obsolescence of existing communications apparatus; and to serve as a basis for an American Standard covering perforated tape for communications use."
"It is the purpose of this Guide to describe and discuss the present state of the technique of measuring ground resistance and impedance, earth resistivity, and potential gradients resulting from currents in the earth and the prediction of the magnitudes of ground resistance and potential gradients from scale model tests.1 Factors governing the choice of instruments and the techniques for various types of work are covered, such as the purpose of the measurement, the accuracy required, the time and instruments available, and the nature of the ground or grounding system under test."
"Nomenclature for alternating-current system voltage should include designations for nominal system voltages and, associated with each nominal voltage: (1) an identification of the minimum and maximum acceptable limits for the system operating voltage under favorable and tolerable conditions, and (2) an identification by voltage rating of devices and equipment to be applied on each system.The AIEE Industrial and Commercial Power Systems Committee has documented preferred system voltage nomenclature for industrial plant and commercial building power systems in Tables 1(A), 1(B), and II. It is intended that this information be useful to plant engineers, power-system engineers, application engineers, consulting engineers, electrical contractors, and equipment manufacturers in understanding current system voltage nomenclature. In addition, a comparison is made to current electric utility power-system practice. This report represents the unanimous agreement of the Working Group with the approval of the Industrial and Commercial Power Systems Committee. Every attempt was made to incorporate preferred practice as well as to include existing practice in industrial and commercial use, recognizing also electrical utility use. It is the objective that the preferred practices in this report be followed, and that due consideration be given in any Standards revision."
"The Standards of AIEE, NEMA, and ASA plus the purchaser's specifications determine the specific requirements for impulse tests. This Guide will not change the Standards in any way, but adds background information which will aid in the interpretation and application of these Standards. These Standards now provide for some alternate ways of conducting some tests or parts of tests. These alternates have been developed by different testing laboratories with consideration for their individual problems of transformer design, test facilities, etc. It is the object of this Guide to discuss these differences and to show how effective failure detection can be achieved with the testing techniques employed. Although the Guide is written primarily for power transformers, it is applicable generally to distribution and instrument transformers."
"High voltage disconnecting switches are assigned certain ratings by the manufacturer and standard tests are conducted to assure the user that the switch, when new, will perform within the ratings shown on the nameplate. It should be recognized that the switch in service will perform within these ratings only if properly operated and maintained. It cannot be stressed too strongly that prescribed safety rules should be adhered to at all times when operating or maintaining high voltage disconnecting switches near energized equipment or conductors."
"This Standard represents the progress made to date in evolving graphical symbols for use in preparation of logic diagrams for systems of binary-state devices. The Standard contains two alternate but overlapping sets of symbols. Since agreement on a common set of symbols could not be obtained, no preference is implied between the two sets presented herein. This represents a solution that seems best under circumstances that presently prevail. It is anticipated that the Standard will be reviewed at the Task Group level at regular intervals, and eventually agreement will be sought for a set of graphical symbols based on a common symbology. It is hoped that groups that have not been represented heretofore will participate at Task Group level in the preparation of future revisions."
"Over the past several years, outdoor metal-clad switchgear has reached a position of widespread application comparable to that of indoor gear. Its satisfactory record for many years in cold, temperate, and hot climates has contributed to this increased usage. However, there are conditions affecting its application which are different from those for indoor gear and warrant special consideration.This was realized and a study of the situation was undertaken by the AIEE Switchgear Assemblies Subcommittee. It was first determined that temperature data were not available on fully loaded units in the field. Outdoor laboratory and field testing was then tried, and it became evident, due to uncontrollable conditions, that accurate and complete data suitable for establishing the current-carrying capability of outdoor metal-clad switchgear could not be obtained. Next, indoor testing simulating outdoor conditions was resorted to. Further valuable data were accumulated, but there is still no absolute relationship between results obtained indoors and conditions existing outdoors. However, based on these investigations, sufficient data are now available for the preparation of a Guide for using outdoor metal-clad switchgear in various climates."
"New definitions of terms associated with telemetering are proposed only when considered necessary and where no known suitable definition exists. No effort has been made to include all terms defined in existing formal glossaries, such as American Standard Definitions of Electrical Terms, ASA C42. It is realized that many terms defined in other publications apply to telemetering as well, and it is expected that these documents will assist in the standardization of telemetering nomenclature."
"This standard applies to tests for high voltage fuses I above 600 volts) , secondary fuses, distribution enclosed single-pole air switches, and accessories, as follows: (1) Enclosed, open, and open-link types of distribution cutouts and fuses for alternating-current distribution systems. (2) Secondary fuses, 600 volts and below, used on supply circuits. Cartridge-type fuses, rated 600 volts and below, and screw plug fuses are not included. (3) Distribution oil cutouts. (4) Distribution enclosed single-pole air switches. 15) Power fuses for systems or circuits above 600 volts. (6) Outdoor and indoor fuse disconnecting switches. (7) Fuse supports, fuse mountings, fuse hooks, fuse tongs, and fuse links, all of the type used exclusively with products listed in (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6). (8) Removable switch blades for products listed in (1) and (3)."
"This standard applies to high voltage fuses (above 600 volts), secondary fuses, distribution enclosed single-pole air switches, and accessories, as follows: (1) Enclosed, open, and open-link types of distribution cutouts and fuses for alternating-current distribution systems. (2) Secondary fuses, 600 volts and below, used on supply circuits. Cartridge-type fuses, rated 600 volts and below, and screw plug fuses are not included. (3) Distribution oil cutouts. (4) Distribution enclosed single-pole air switches. (5) Power fuses for systems or circuits above 600 volts. (6) Outdoor and indoor fuse disconnecting switches. (7) Fuse supports, fuse mountings, fuse hooks, fuse tongs, and fuse links, all of the type used exclusively with products listed in (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6). (8) Removable switch blades for products listed in (1) and (3)."
"This standard applies to high voltage fuses (above 600 volts) and accessories, as follows: enclosed, open, and open-link types of distribution cutouts and fuses for AC (alternating-current) distribution systems. Fuse supports, fuse mountings, fuse hooks, and fuse tongs, all of the type used exclusively with products listed in. Removable switch blades for products listed in."
"This standard applies to links for high voltage fuses (above 600 volts) for enclose, open, and open-link types of distribution cutouts for ac distribution systems."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: distribution & transmission division; rotating machinery division; insulating materials education division; and electronics division."
"Summary form only given. Ever since 1935, when their development was announced by Westinghouse, dry-type power transformers have become increasingly important in the distribution of electric power. From the common beginning of ventilated dry-type transformers, there has evolved a wide variety of related lines of equipment. The best known of these is the open dry-type transformer, which uses class B and C solid insulations along with ambient air as the coolant. Related to these ventilated units are sealed dry-type transformers which use class H insulations and nitrogen as the coolant. Also related are the ventilated class H units which have become more common during the past few years."
"Asbestos-reinforced plastics, rigid shapes and pre-pregs, are widely accepted for high temperature service. These materials are being used, for example, as missile parts because they have good ablation characteristics at burn-out temperatures, and good physical strength and stability up to the thermal decomposition temperatures. On the other hand, rigid asbestos laminates have traditionally been held in low esteem by the electrical industry, primarily because of poor electrical properties. This is exemplified in the NEMA Standard for Industrial Laminated Thermosetting Products which states for Grade A, Asbestos Paper Base Laminates: More resistant to flame and slightly more resistant to heat than cellulosic laminated grades because of high inorganic content. Not recommended for primary insulation for electrical applications involving commercial power frequencies in excess of 250 volts. Small dimensional changes when exposed to moisture."
"Over the years there has been a continual increase in the rating requirements for metal-clad switchgear. Both the continuous ratings and the interrupting values have been pushed upwards in order to keep pace with the growing needs of industrial and utility electric power systems. Each rating increase has generally led to the need for better insulation for one or more of the following reasons: higher voltage, increased operating temperature, greater short-circuit forces, improved reliability, and increased operator safety."
"Recent years have seen the advent and application of many new and valuable insulating materials. We have seen new applications for older materials and increased emphasis on certain insulating properties such as surface track resistance and operation at higher temperatures. These new materials and new applications should provide the users of high voltage equipment with electrical apparatus which is more reliable and which requires less maintenance. However, this can only be achieved through careful study and control of all of the properties of the insulating material important to the application. For example, care must be exercised to insure that good surface tracking resistance of an insulation is not achieved at the cost of other dielectric properties. A material application, or substitution, without sufficient study of all of the properties can create new problems and in some cases provide a dielectric structure more prone to failure even though \"improved\" materials are applied. One important property, insulation dissipation factor, (often called power factor), whose neglect may lead to insulation failure in a number of ways, has been under study and control in the application of insulation to switchgear for a number of years. This report will deal with that activity."
"The application of electrical insulation by means of a dip coat process provides switchgear manufacturers with an economical method of applying insulation to both regular and irregular configurations. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the application of dippable insulation, the range in properties available in these materials and typical applications of current use."
"Glass reinforced polyester laminate has enabled important advances in medium voltage switchgear construction in the past few years and has become the workhorse of the industry. The recent advent of this material in channel and angle form greatly adds to its versatility and will increase the safety, reliability, and economy of this switchgear."
"The paper-and-oil insulation system of distribution transformers, which has served the industry well for many decades, is now being challenged by resin encapsulation. It is not yet clear whether encapsulated transformers will eventually supersede oil-filled pole-type designs, or will be limited to specialty applications such as installations in or adjacent to buildings. A field trial of encapsulated transformers is in progress to gain experience in manufacturing, to proof test radical design concepts, and to promote study by the industry of the application potentialities and desired characteristics for encapsulated transformers."
"HT-1 is the designation for an experimental high temperature resistant polymeric material under development by the Du Pont Company. It is being developed to fulfill the need for a product which combines durability under high temperature conditions with those mechanical and electrical properties required for acceptable performance in a wide range of industrial end uses. HT-1 can be produced as filament yarn, staple fibers, paper, and in thick or boardlike structures. On the basis of experimental product evaluations and encouraging market prospects, a pilot plant for production of the material is being constructed. This unit will have a nominal capacity of 1MM pounds per year of product and is expected to be on stream about the end of 1962."
"Since the announcements in mid 1961 that certain electrical equipment manufacturers had succeeded in encapsulating distribution transformers with an epoxy resin system, it has become a well known and widely discussed fact that a major breakthrough has been achieved in the field of power distribution equipment. After many years of searching for high quality insulating resins and unit designs to replace the conventional massive and heavy oil-filled tank, epoxy resin systems meeting Class B requirements, and higher, have been developed which are rated at 80° C average winding temperature rise with dielectric properties equivalent to those of conventionally constructed transformers."
"A group of insulation products based on a polyimide polymer have been introduced to the electrical industry gradually since late 1959. This group of products, sold under the trade name of \"Pyre-M.L.®,\" includes wire enamels, coated glass fabrics, and an insulating varnish. The polyimides were selected for commercialization as the most thermally stable type of polymer yet characterized in the continuous program of polymer research carried on at the du Pont Experimental Station in Wilmington."
"A great deal of work has been done, and standards have been developed for the testing of enameled magnet wire in air (1), and for the evaluation of complete insulation systems (2) for induction motors, transformers, and similar electrical equipment. These techniques apparently give excellent correlation with field results when applied to equipment having stationary windings and operating at temperatures which do not exceed the ratings of the material used. When an attempt is made to use these techniques in evaluating materials for portable tool motors, however, the results do not correlate with the field experience. The most frequent source of motor burnout in a portable tool motor is turn-to-turn shorts in the armature. Virtually all portable tool motors are series wound for AC or DC operation. No-load speeds are in the vicinity of 20,000 tor 30,000 RPM. The rotating armature windings are random wound on high speed winding machines, resulting in many high pressure crossover points in the armature conductors. Armature temperatures can momentarily greatly exceed the temperatures for which the materials are rated. Class \"C\" temperatures (over 220°C) are possible. During these short periods of over-temperature, the windings are subjected to the high no-load speeds, vibration, and voltage, which, combined, can cause insulation breakdown in turn-to-turn shorts. On the other hand, portable tool motors have a short life expectancy in the neighborhood of 500 to 1500 hours, as contrasted with the expected life of 20,000 or more hours on induction equipment. The vast differences between conventional induction motors for stationary equipment and series motors for portable tools may be attributed to the portability requirement of the latter. In order to develop the necessary power to perform the required work, with a minimum weight, portable tool motors must be designed with electrical and mechanical components worked to the limits of their capabilities. Having less mass, these motors are subjected to more rapid temperature rises, when overloaded, than larger stationary motors of the same power. Furthermore, there are no standard loads for portable tools, the loading being literally in the hands of the operator. Variations in the materials cut, the sharpness of the tool, and other unpredictable conditions, assure the motor designer that any load from idle to stall is a possible condition of operation for his portable tool motor. For the above reasons, selection of an insulation system for portable tool motors is quite a different problem from that encountered in other motor design work. Because we frequently encounter high temperatures for short periods of operation on portable tool motors, we are especially interested in knowing what happens to an insulating material when exposed to temperatures higher than its rating for short periods of time, and at the same time subjected to high centrifugal forces and vibrations. It is this specific area of insulation study which requires a specialized approach to testing and evaluation of materials for series motors in heavy duty portable tools. R. B. Carmer and E. W. Daszewski, of Essex Wire Corporation (3) have shown that insulating films on magnet wires, when subjected to extreme temperatures, exhibit characteristics which are not predictable by extrapolating the conventional straight-line life-temperature curves obtained by the twisted pair(1) method. Certain Class \"A\" (105°C) films show better endurance than certain Class \"F\" (155°F) films in the high temperature regions."
"One of the major factors governing the selection of magnet wires for rotating machinery designed for higher temperature operation is thermal stability of the insulation."
"These preliminary results indicate wide differences in thermal endurance between the insulation systems evaluated. These facts must be considered in selecting insulation systems for railway operation if continuity of service and low maintenance costs are to be maintained. Tests are continuing and will provide additional information about the performance of traction motor field coil insulating systems. While field service is the final proof of the reliability of insulation, this functional test procedure will be invaluable in evaluating present and new field coil insulation systems. Since it is unfair to expect the railroad companies to accept new insulation systems without functional data to substantiate the choice of materials, to supply these data becomes the duty of insulating material suppliers and coil and motor manufacturers."
"The demand for higher reliability in electrical and electronic components, coupled with the advent of many new magnet wire insulations and epoxy formulations, has made it advisable to look at epoxy encapsulated coils used in the electro-mechanical, electrical and electronic fields in terms of the complete systems. (The term \"system\" is used here to mean a specific insulated magnet wire encapsulated in a specific epoxy formulation and related internal insulations)."
"Full scale production conversion to a new Class B field coil insulation system for industrial d-c motors and generators was completed at General Electric Company in Erie, Pennsylvania, during the summer of 1960. This system provides a heavy epoxy coil coating applied by a closely monitored and controlled dipping process. The encapsulated coil is then molded to the pole piece to provide a rigidly tight assembly."
"At no time in the past have fractional horsepower motors been applied in so many different ways with so many environmental conditions, each of which offers new and different challenges to the motor's insulation system. There are motors operating today under circumstances which would have been prohibitive only a few short years ago. As one looks into the future for fractional horsepower motors, there is little doubt that the manufacturer of insulation materials, the developer of insulating processes and the design engineer who incorporates these materials and processes into his product all carry a tremendous responsibility. Though the accomplishments of the past have been outstanding, in no area can there be any resting on these laurels. We must continually ask ourselves bold questions with regard to the design and use of insulation for fractional horsepower motors. Only the boldest of answers will satisfy these questions."
"An armature varnish is a special type of impregnating varnish. It gives outstanding bond strength to the windings of the wire around the iron core as the armature rotates at speeds of 20,000 to 30,000 revolutions per minute. This paper suggests how this type of varnish can be formulated, tested and applied to armatures that are used for small, high speed motors, such as vacuum cleaners and hand tools. It is based on the co-operation of the varnish supplier and representatives of motor manufacturers."
"Research and development in synthetic fiber papers, started by the authors' company in 1955, has been directed for the past four years toward flexible sheet insulation for use in electrical equipment. This paper is a progress report on the work done to date."
"The conventional ground insulation system for F.H.P. motors consists of individual slot cell liners and endpunching insulators separating the magnet wire from the magnetic core structure. There has not been a basic change in this ground insulation system for several decades. This suggests that the Insulation Engineer: 1. has established the ultimate ground insulation system; 2. is limited by the availability of suitable electrical insulating materials; 3. has been concentrating his efforts on the design technique of substitution rather than on basic functional design criteria."
"For some time, the manufacturers of electrical motors have searched for an integral insulation system to replace paper slot inserts and fiber end laminations. By way of illustration, there have been many attempts to design a suitable insulation of this type. Some of the more notable methods tried have been resinous thixotropic dip compounds, molded inserts of organic materials, spraying, and elaborate methods of applying thixotropic pastes by a knife coating means. With the advent of the fluidized-bed process and specially formulated epoxy resin powders, the electric motor manufacturers now have a productive method and excellent insulating materials for applying integral insulation."
"The development of more accurate and versatile test instruments and the increasing interest in the extension of rotating equipment life through the use of preventive maintenance have resulted in many changes in rotating machines to facilitate maintenance and improve reliability. Most users of electrical equipment are familiar with at least the more fundamental tests and theories and, as a result, are able to conduct tests and interpret observed data in a manner which will estimate equipment condition and predict its approximate useful life. One of the simplest and most common tests is the reading of insulation resistance to ground values on a regular basis. This is ordinarily done with a hand-cranked, motor-driven, or rectifier-powered ohmmeter capable of reading resistances in the order of megohms. The advantages of this type of meter and testing are: simplicity, low initial investment, and its adaptability to nearly any type of maintenance program. Merely reading insulation resistance is not sufficient, however, unless the readings can be interpreted properly and used beneficially in gaining some reward such as prolonged or improved equipment life."
"The insulation user is waiting patiently for the perfect insulation - a material that has the dielectric of synthetic films; that will withstand temperatures of mica; that is as resilient and flexible as silicone rubber; that is as tough as epoxies or polyesters. An insulation in the form of a liquid or semi-liquid with an infinite pot life, that a component can be dipped into and will air-dry in fifteen minutes and be ready for installation into a motor or generator. There is no such insulating material available today, and it is very doubtful that there will be one in the near future. However, there are materials available that will fill all of these requirements, and it is the responsibility of the design engineer to know these materials, test and evaluate these materials, and fit them into an insulating system that will do the job in a machine for a particular application for which the machine was designed. This then becomes the over-all insulation system."
"As a result of recent development efforts by magnet wire manufacturers, new film insulations with improved physical, electrical, chemical, and thermal properties are now available to the electrical industry. Examples of these are modified polyvinyl formal, over-coated polyester, acrylics, epoxies, polyurethanes, and others."
"The development of the polyester nonwoven mat has culminated many years of searching for a high performance backing suitable for flexible electrical insulation. With the use of polyester fibers, a backing superior to cotton in moisture and thermal resistance was possible. The polyester nonwoven mat also overcame the deficiencies of glass fabric in conformability and retention of dielectric strength after crease. These desirable characteristics have given the insulation systems based on polyester nonwoven mat a major position in today's insulation market."
"The importance of polymeric insulation in the electrical industry is shown by the many hundreds of published papers concerning the AC electrical conduction (or dielectric loss) of such materials. In contrast, not much attention has been given to the study of DC conduction with which we shall be exclusively concerned in this paper. Difficulty in the interpretation of the DC measurements is primarily responsible for this; however, some progress has been made in this direction and the present state of the art will be summarized in this paper."
"This paper attempts to summarize the basic molecular mechanisms which control the dielectric properties of glasses and glass-ceramic materials. An analysis of these polarizations reveals that alkali ions are the principal constituents which determine the dielectric loss properties. In glassy materials containing alkali ions in rather large quantities, these ions control the losses over most of the frequency spectrum. The mean of the relaxation frequency is somewhere in the vicinity of 1CT3 cycles/second depending upon temperature, glass structure, and the amount of alkali present. The polarization over most of the spectrum at room temperature is of the orientational type. At elevated temperatures, interfacial polarization losses predominate. The losses are, however, still identifiable with the alkali ions."
"High voltage testing of insulated wire and cable for extended periods of time is injurious even though the insulation does not fail. This deterioration of the product in testing can be avoided if testing of valid samples to destruction is acceptable. Also by testing samples to destruction, an appraisal of the quality of the material can be made which is much more discriminating than the common procedure of carrying out tests on all of the material at a level below the failure voltage. A proposed procedure and statistical treatment of data is given for destructive tests on small samples of insulated wire."
"During the last two decades, in particular, there has been an increasing realization of the importance of the effect of corona discharges on the practical life of electrical insulation under electric stress. During this time there have been numerous papers published particularly in Great Britain and the United States, as well as some significant contributions from other countries, all discussing the decline in a-c electric strength with time of voltage application and its relation to Corona Discharges. In spite of this large volume of literature on the subject, there still seems to be some confusion among insulation application engineers as to what corona is and what it means. Also there has been a notable lack of unanimity, even among the experts in corona studies, regarding definition of terms and methods of measurements. There is progress in resolving this problem in AIEE and ASTM Committees.This paper will present a simple description of what corona discharges are and where they occur. It will outline the electrical quantities characterizing the corona pulses and their measurement. Finally, it will describe how the corona discharges attack electrical insulation and cause, in the case of organic plastics in particular, a large decrease in electric strength with time of voltage application."
"For almost half a century temperature classification of electrical insulation has been a primary basis for the rating of electrical equipment and apparatus. In 1913, Lamme of Westinghouse and Steinmetz(1) of General Electric, recognized in a joint AIEE paper that electrical insulation is expendable at a rate which is variable with operating temperature. Their work laid the basis for the establishment of a system of temperature classification which was later officially recognized in AIEE No. 1. The original concept for the selection of these limiting temperatures was that the electrical and mechanical properties of the insulation must not be impaired by the prolonged application of the limiting insulation temperature. However, as time went on it became apparent that changes in characteristics of insulation take place slowly at these limiting temperatures. Thus, the concept of thermal endurance developed gradually and became coupled with temperature limitation."
"In the last decade the electrical industry has become increasingly conscious of temperature classification of insulation. AIEE #1 \"General Principles Upon Which Temperature Limits are Based in the Rating of Electrical Equipment\" has recognized in recent revisions that temperature classification by chemical composition is inadequate. Therefore, AIEE #1 provides that insulation may be classified thermally, not only by chemical composition, but also by experience and by accepted tests. Also recognized are the differences between insulating materials and insulation systems as applied to equipment. It is with these accepted tests on insulation systems that this paper is concerned."
"Many engineers are familiar with the early ratings of materials as defined in A.I.E.E. #1, the present emphasis on systems, and the determination of system life by approved test procedures. The material definitions were found wanting in transformers, since the life of oil insulated transformers operated under full load continuously was found to be very short as long ago as 1925. At the same time, the life was found to be lengthened very greatly by using nitrogen above the oil and by the careful use of materials considering both their solubility in oil and compatibility with each other. At a later time, similar considerations were found to exist for dry type transformers. Enclosure and the exclusion of oxygen, the choice of material used depending on its actual operating temperature and function, and the avoidance of materials adjacent to each other which were chemically incompatible, were all found to increase life. In other words, defining the materials used is not now adequate, and as a result, some method of test to show that the assembly is both mechanically and chemically stable is required. For the purposes of this test, a model or the actual equipment is required. The assembly is now termed an insulation system, and test procedures for these must be established, according to present recommendations. Tests on test tube samples, although useful in comparing materials, are definitely not acceptable in place of a system test."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a method for screening insulation systems for their temperature capabilities."
"In this paper, we will confine our attention to a new method for the testing of slot cell sheet stock insulation components. However, the test procedures may be eventually extended to evaluating other forms of insulation materials. The purpose of this paper is to describe a program of study of oxygen diffusion and oxygen permeability in sheet stock insulation materials. The technique of investigation is new and unproven, and the authors may make errors in interpretation. However, if other investigators will be stimulated to use and improve this technique of study and evaluation, this exposition of testing procedures will have served its purpose."
"The Navy has been performing spot checks of solenoid coil insulation systems in accordance with a modification of a test(1) consisting of dielectric strength, insulation resistance, heat and moisture resistance. These tests have usually been performed at one temperature. The results were then compared with the results obtained with a typical Class A motorette system. However, these tests were limited in their usefulness since only one temperature point was obtained. In addition, the results were based on ground failures while it was evident that some coil systems would fail a turn-to-turn test from the flaking and cracking of the film insulation on the conductors."
"Considerable data are now available relating to the thermal endurance of coated fabrics as a means of temperature classification for the purpose of end use. These data have been largely based on the method of ASTM 1830-61T employing curved electrodes. In order that similar information might be available for users of coated sleeving, an investigation was conducted to develop a method that would subject coated sleeving to thermal and mechanical stresses essentially similar to those employed for coated tapes, with the purpose of so equating these effects that differences in the geometry of the sleeving and tape specimens would not be a major factor in the final classification."
"Experience has shown that an analysis of test results based on a simple comparison of calculated averages can be misleading. The thermal evaluation literature shows that the insulation systems are compared by a linear relationship between the logarithm of life versus the reciprocal of the absolute temperatures. AIEE #1F describes method to obtain the most probable values of the constants in the equation for the thermal life-line. Often several life-lines are compared graphically without considering whether or not the underlying assumptions for the chosen statistical method is fulfilled. Therefore, in certain cases this advanced analysis can also be misleading."
"I am not saying anything new when I say that d-c electrical conductance or conductivity (reciprocal resistance or resistivity) of electrical insulating materials is not generally a property of major concern to the user of these materials. In fact, the conductance of an insulating unit is usually several orders of magnitude smaller than is required for efficient use. Only in those cases where extremely small currents are involved do the actual values of the conductances become important as such. The author discusses ASTM D 257 conductance measurement techniques."
"This paper is concerned with the aspects of conditioning pertinent to electrical resistance measurements as covered by the scope of Standard Methods of Test for Electrical Resistance of Insulating Materials (ASTM Designation: D-257). Attention is therefore directed to d-c testing of electrical insulation. Further, the primary interest will be in general engineering practice with solid insulations and, to a lesser extent, with liquids; gasses will be excluded. Such theory as contributes to an understanding of testing practices will be discussed. It is to be hoped that a discussion of electrical conduction has aided an understanding of the effects of conditioning on the resistance of insulators; that a discussion of resistance measurements has provided an awareness of the errors that may be introduced when tests are made on conditioned specimens, and that means for avoiding the errors are understood; finally, that requirements for suitable conditioning chambers and procedures in their use are adequately described."
"The thought has been expressed that the manufacturer and user of insulating materials, who may use electrical resistance measured in accordance with ASTM D-257(1) as one means of evaluation and control, may not be familiar with the d-c tests that these materials are subjected to after assembly into insulation systems in apparatus. One of the purposes of this paper is to review d-c tests as they are used in the field to evaluate the condition of the insulation in power apparatus. It is largely in power equipment such as rotating machinery, switch-gear, cable and transformers that such field tests can be economically justified (2)."
"Insulation resistance is defined as the ratio of the direct voltage applied to two electrodes in contact with or embedded in a specimen to the total current between the electrodes. Test values, therefore, are highly dependent on the geometry of the electrode-specimen system and the volume and surface resistances of the material under test. Also, the numerical results obtained are extremely sensitive to the test environment, the insulation resistance of the test equipment, the magnitude and stability of the voltage, and the time of electrification. Since test values are directly comparable only when geometry, humidity, voltage, temperature, material history, cleanliness, conductor configuration, ad infinitum, are identical, it is safe to say that direct application of test values on materials rarely can be utilized."
"In an earlier article(1) the relationship between the Electrical Research Association (E.R.A.) and the British Standards Institution (B.S.I.) regarding the production of standards for insulating materials was outlined. Briefly the arrangement is that preparatory research work on methods of test, and the acceptable level of performance required, are done by the E.R.A. and the resulting proposals are then considered by the B.S.I, and published as a British Standard after a draft has been issued to industry for comment and any adverse comments resolved. This comment stage is the nearest approach in the United Kingdom to the A.S.T.M. practice of issuing a tentative method. This close association between the production of standards and research work means that information produced in the course of investigations of problems encountered by industry influences standards quickly and so disseminates the results of research throughout industry (perhaps without industry fully understanding the benefits it is receiving)."
"Mica paper was invented at almost the same time in the United States and in France. It was during the war and that is probably the principal reason why its development was delayed."
"Spectacular developments have been witnessed in the latest years in the insulation of large rotating machines such as turbine generators or water-wheel generators in Japan. Among others, application of synthetic resin to stator coil insulation and improvement of corona prevention deserve particular attention."
"Medium frequency electric heating techniques are more and more used by metallurgists to process metals. Schematically, these installations consist of a crucible placed in the middle of a coil in which a medium frequency (MF) current flows."
"The ultimate choice of insulating materials for use in an insulation system for a particular type of electrical equipment is the responsibility of the design engineer. In a partially-developed country like Brazil, however, factors governing this choice may involve so many fields that well-oriented teamwork is sometimes necessary to gather all the information required for a sound decision to be reached. The factors to be considered are, of course, the same in any country, cost usually being the deciding factor. The difference lies in the fact that local conditions may give entirely different weights to the various factors and to the various components of the total cost."
"If we could project ourselves into the future, say twenty or thirty centuries from now, and then look back, we would realize that the 20th century was outstanding not because it gave birth to the atomic age or the space age but mainly because of the development and growth of research and development, and especially applied research and development. That is, atomic energy and the conquering of space as well as many other great achievements were merely the result of organized research and development. Correspondingly, new developments and trends in resins for electronic packaging and their processing techniques and equipment are also the results of research and development. As research and development continues to expand, we have an ever increasing choice of new materials, processes and processing equipment."
"The object of this work is to find or develop an epoxy resin system capable of impregnating and embedding magnetic devices wound with various size wires. The resin system should be capable of meeting the environmental requirements of the various military specifications such as MIL-I-16923-C, MIL-E-S400 and MIL-T-27A. In addition, it must have acceptable physical and electrical characteristics. The properties of flame retardance, and very low electrical loss at 1 Kc, 160°C are most important."
"In the past year a new class of epoxy resins has come onto the market. These resins which go under the name of Oxiron® are epoxidized polybutadienes. In addition to having the oxirane oxygen groups, they also possess unsaturation and therefore the methods of curing them can be quite diverse. The great versatility of this resin has been discussed in previous papers(1, 2, 3, 4) as well as its application to specific end uses such as laminates(5). At the present time we propose discussing the use of these resins for electronic packaging."
"This study was initiated as part of an overall program to develop some basic information regarding the properties of flexibilized epoxy compounds and to attempt to relate these properties to the composition of the compounds. An additional objective has been to establish the inter-relationships that may exist among these properties. In this study, attention was directed toward the measurement of the tensile strength, per cent elongation, dissipation factor and volume resistivity of specially compounded epoxy systems. Flexibilized epoxy formulations comprising a liquid epoxy resin, a liquid acid anhydride, an epoxy reactive flexibilizer and a tertiary amine catalyst were prepared. The composition was varied by anhydride type (two different anhydrides were employed), by flexibilizer concentration, and by curing agent to epoxide ratio. Two different cure schedules were used to study the effect of composition and cure variables on the ultimate properties."
"The demands of the developing aerospace technology stress the need for lightweight, compact, reliable components for its various electronic systems. The encapsulated magnetic component represents one of the most reliable methods for the compact packaging of transformers and other inductive components. Encapsulation processes which are easily adapted to the fabrication of complex shapes will be demonstrated in this paper."
"Developments in resilient epoxy resin systems have a marked influence upon the selection and application of encapsulants for magnetic components. The designer is prone to think in terms of a resilient insulating material which accommodates the mechanical and thermal stresses arising during the performance of magnetic circuits. Resiliency in an epoxy electrical insulating material is not gained without sacrificing some other properties. It may be necessary to compromise some physical or chemical resistance requirements when selecting the final material in order to achieve optimum combinations of physical and electrical properties. There are numerous resilient epoxy systems from which to choose and for a given set of performance requirements, an optimum material may be selected."
"Miniaturization has become a prime design goal especially for airborne electronic components. Generally, this means increased electrical stresses which require both redesign of the insulation system and the introduction of improved materials. To meet these dielectric strength requirements, there has been increased reliance on epoxy embedding compounds. As in the case of any relatively new insulation concept, there is a tremendous need for additional design data. This is especially true in the case of dielectric strength since much of the available data is difficult to relate to a completely solid insulation system."
"Several test methods which have been found to be reliable and correlate with performance on electrical equipment have been presented. These methods cover many of the performance properties which are required of powders and powder coatings and are practical to set up and perform. The apparatus and test equipment required is found in many laboratories or is readily available. Only a small number of test pieces is required for covering all the tests. Many may be performed on the sample test bar prepared by method E8B19. In the interest of adopting functional standard test methods which will be accepted by both suppliers and consumers, it is hoped that the methods presented in this paper will be tried, modified where necessary to meet general practices, and incorporated into industry standards."
"The tantalum electrolytic capacitor can be considered as a parallel plate capacitor in which tantalum metal is one electrode, a tantalum oxide film is the dielectric, and the tantalum oxide/electrolyte boundary is the other electrode. This model is useful for many purposes, although it is obviously oversimplified and does not take into account such phenomena as the assymetry of the system with regard to the effect of applied voltage, and neglects important parameters in the practical design of these capacitors. The tantalum electrode can take many physical forms, such as foil, wire, evaporated films, or, most commonly, a porous pellet made by pressing and sintering tantalum powder. The electrolyte can be solid or liquid, and must have a relatively high conductivity. Examples of liquid electrolytes used are sulphuric acid or lithium chloride solutions. The only solid electrolyte in commercial use is manganese dioxide formed on the surface of the tantalum oxide film by pyrolysis of manganese nitrate solutions. The dielectric is the vital part of the capacitor, and is a thin film of amorphous tantalum oxide, formed by anodic oxidation on the surface of the tantalum electrode. The desired characteristics of the capacitor are high capacitance per unit volume, low dissipation factor or equivalent series resistance (ESR), low leakage current (i.e. the current which flows when a specified direct voltage is applied across the capacitor), and high reliabilityunder conditions of use. The factors which determine reliability are extremely' complex, and will not be further discussed, except inasmuch as there is probably a correlation between reliability and leakage, although this is by no means proved. The experimental results presented in this paper were obtained as part of a program to determine the factors affecting the capacitance, ESR, and leakage of the sintered powder type of tantalum anode, in liquid electrolyte systems. Most of the general trends observed are applicable to solid electrolytes, or to different forms of tantalum anode, such as foil or wire. The properties of capacitance, ESR, and leakage are in many ways interrelated, and in fact the design of a capacitor involves making a compromise between them. However, for convenience in presentation, they will first be considered separately, and then the interrelationships discussed."
"Investigations originally stimulated by an interest in the passivation of silicon surfaces have culminated in a high stability capacitor with a silicon-dioxide thin film as the dielectric. This paper presents some characteristics of the silicon-dioxide thin film alone, and of a silicon/silicon-dioxide capacitor. The capacitor can exhibit either a highly stable capacitance or a capacitance which is frequency and bias-variant, depending on the resistivity and conductivity type of silicon used."
"The results of statistical studies on the preparation and evaluation of thin film capacitors are presented and discussed. The dielectric material used was silicon monoxide (SiO.) Data on single layer capacitors are presented followed by results and discussions of multilayered thin film capacitors. Thin films of SiO (1000 to 20,000 Angstroms) were vacuum deposited in stacked layers numbering up to seven (7) separated by aluminum film electrodes, onto supporting substrates of different surface characteristics. Results demonstrate the feasibility of multilayering thin film capacitors by vacuum deposition techniques in the order of the above thicknesses and indicate potential application to the Signal Corps MicroModule program."
"Because I find it difficult and almost impossible to separate the responsibilities of the distributor to the manufacturer, from those of the manufacturer to the distributor, I was tempted to change the title of this paper to \"The Dynamics of the Distributor/Manufacturer Relationship\" — I feel very strongly that the inter-relationship makes it almost impossible to consider them as standing completely alone. We have instead a continuous, dynamic situation of cause and effect. When committed to a nation-wide distribution program, the manufacturer finds that intelligent consideration of his wants can only be undertaken in terms of their practical effect on his distributors."
"As stated by the preceding speaker, Mr. Webb, it is extremely difficult to separate the responsibilities of the manufacturer to the distributor from those of the distributor to the manufacturer. Each wants a completely honest arrangement, where loyalty, integrity, sincerity, reliability and desire for creative accomplishment are watch words, not only between the participating organizations, but also between the individuals who work together to carry out the function of any programs established. There must be full cooperation expected and gained between the organizations at all operating levels."
"Change is the subject of my talk — that is, change that seems to be taking place in the channels of electrical wholesale distribution; or perhaps more graphically, how the sands are shifting m the channels of electrical distribution."
"I welcome this opportunity to participate in the Fourth Electrical Insulation Conference, and especially in this meeting devoted to the interest of marketers."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: electrical insulation and dielectric properties."
"This Appendix may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings. "
"This paper gives briefly the most important results of the research conducted in the Insulated Oils Section of the Laboratory of the Institut Montefiore in Liège. More details about this research will be found in references 1 and 2."
"It is well established that the apparent viscosity of an electrically conducting polar liquid increases when the liquid is subjected to a uniform electric field transverse to the direction of flow. It has also been established that the increase in viscosity is practically independent of electrode polarization processes. Evidence has now come to light which leads the way to a whole new series of critical experiments. It has been found that the increase in viscosity of n-amyl acetate is very nearly proportional to the electric current flowing transversely to the direction of flow."
"It is possible to measure capacitances and loss tangents at 100 c.p.s. under dc stresses of at least 4-7 volts/mil and to obtain results equivalent to those for the same material with less initial ionic impurities."
"There has been no lack of theories of electrode polarization in liquids, solids and gases. A recent review of the literature on this subject is provided by Macdonald and Barlow1. The present work considers the static polarization problem in liquids in which the electrodes are plane, parallel, blocking, and separated by a finite distance. The liquid is assumed to possess two kinds of ions bearing charges of equal magnitude but opposite sign. Recombination and dissociation effects are assumed negligible. The analysis was developed for dielectric liquids; however, the results are of somewhat wider utility."
"The change in d.c. resistance, capacitance and dissipation factor of insulating materials has long been recognized as a means for following changes in resin cure. Moreover, modern measurement techniques now make possible practical factory control methods using very small electrodes for small encapsulated circuits and other types of electrodes on large cast resin structures."
"In the past few years it has become well established that presently available carbon black papers when used to screen the conductor or insulation of a high voltage cable increase the initial dielectric loss of that cable. Kitagawa1 developed a formula which relates this increase to the resistivity of the carbon black paper. This formula can be expressed to a first approximation, as Δ tan δ = ω CR where C is the capacitance of the insulation and R is the series resistivity of the carbon black layer. In the work discussed last year, we showed that the resistivity formula did not provide an adequate explanation for the increase in dielectric loss due to carbon black paper."
"Dielectric materials and components embodying them can be had today at reasonable cost with assurance of property reproducibility and reliability to tolerances realistic for operating equipments. They will be available more readily and will be utilized more widely when we can monitor quality more efficiently."
"As the need for electric power increases throughout the United States, the space available for transmission of this power becomes more and more difficult to find. For this reason there is an increasing tendency for utilities to use cable instead of open wire line for transmission of electrical energy."
"It is necessary to make measurements of both mechanical and electrical properties on insulating materials to provide information for the use of these materials at cryogenic temperatures. A start has been made in this direction. It should be emphasized that mechanical flexibility may be very limited at cryogenic temperatures. Usually electrical properties are very good and the extremely low losses may prove to be of engineering importance."
"During the past 12 years, only two thermoplastic linear polyesters capable of forming films suitable for electrical insulation have been commercially available. These are poly(ethylene terephthalate) and another polymer in which a considerable portion of the terephthalic acid in the poly(ethylene terephthalate) configuration is replaced with isophthalic acid. As far as electrical uses go, however, poly(ethylene terephthalate) has been used almost exclusively. This paper introduces a new linear polyester, poly(1,4-cyclohexylenedimethylene terephthalate), designated hereafter as T16, which was designed with outstanding chemical and electrical properties. This polymer is formed by reacting terephthalic acid and 1,4-cyclohexanedimethanol. In Figure 1, the repeating units of T16 are compared with those of poly(ethylene terephthalate). It is readily seen that the big structural difference is the presence of a cyclohexane ring between the two methylene groups. This bulky ring and its attendant forces impart a lower density, a higher melting point, and substantially better hydrolytic, chemical, and electrical properties to T16."
"The ultraviolet photopolymerization of several simple unsaturated organic compounds has been studied with respect to the formation of a dielectric film on metallic film surfaces. The monomers gave films which were used as the dielectric medium in a number of test capacitors. Photopolymerization was carried out at a monomer partial pressure of a few rum Hg, the light source being a medium-pressure Hg arc. The test capacitors were made on a glass substrate by evaporating a Pb film, photopolymerizing the monomer to produce a dielectric film on the metal surface, and then evaporating a second Pb film."
"A cell was designed and constructed to measure the electrical properties of solid dielectric specimens over the frequency range 102 to 106 cps and in the temperature interval 25°C to 700°C. The cell, of the three-electrode guardring type, was calibrated in a resistance heated furnace containing air at a pressure of 10-5 mm Hg. The associated electrical measuring devices included a General Radio Capacitance Bridge type 716-C, a General Radio Guard Circuit type 716-P4 and supplementary generator and detector equipment."
"The study of the long-time effects of humidity change on the dielectric properties of dielectric materials was for the most part made on disk specimens from 2 to 5 mm thick which were cut down to a diameter of about 4 cm for measurement in micrometer electrode holders and on which evaporated metal (usually gold) electrodes were applied. Most of the results described in this paper were obtained on specimens of this type using a frequency of 1000 c/s at 23°C."
"Modified aromatic imide polymers have been prepared by the reaction of pyromellitic dianhydride with various aromatic diamines. The initial product is a polypyromellitamic acid, which is soluble in polar solvents, such as dimethylacetamide and dimethyl sulfoxide. When cured by heat, the polymer is converted to an insoluble polyimide. The cured resin is linear, consisting of a series of benzene rings alternating with various linking groups. In addition to the cyclic imide groups derived from the pyromellitic dianhydride, other connecting groups can be included as part of the diamine reactant. A variety of modified polyimide resins have been prepared in this way and evaluated for thermal stability by measuring weight losses of one mil films on aluminum at 325°C. Based on this test, an approximate order of thermal stability for the linking groups is: imide > ether, sulfide, direct phenyl-phenyl bond > amide, ester > methylene > isopropylidene."
"It is generally accepted that, for capacitors, the relation between stress and the time at constant temperature is Vnt = constant. Through the Eyring Model for reaction rates, this relation which has been usually considered to be completely empirical is shown to have a theoretical foundation."
"Recently developed transformer bridges have made it possible to easily make measurements of capacitance to a few ppm (parts per million), particularly at audio frequencies. The question naturally arises: can dielectric constant and phase angle measurements be made with comparable accuracy?"
"The instrument described is intended for the measurement of the characteristics of internal corona in the electrical insulation of high voltage power system equipment. It is equally useful for testing samples of material and the insulation of many types of electronic component."
"For some time it has been recognized that in the Townsend mechanism of breakdown, radiation is the only mechanism that appears to be fast enough to account for the speed of breakdown. Considerable attention has been directed to photoemission but this has been unable to account for observed phenomena. Recently data has been obtained which makes it possible to make quantitative determinations of photoionization. This paper describes calculations made using a digital computer to apply the available data on photoionization to the Townsend breakdown of gaps of the order of 1 cm at atmospheric pressure."
"When the voltage across a gas tube is increased to the “breakdown voltage”, the gap becomes a good conductor. Although the breakdown voltage may be accurately calculated by use of the Townsend breakdown condition, the actual breakdown transition processes have not been well understood."
"All of the data given in this report are the result of hundreds of flashover tests with no resulting physical damage to the test specimens. Each Vd and V value given represents an average of ten or more successive tests. More work is planned to lend further credibility to the reasons mentioned for the Vd/V values obtained. Impulse and non-uniform tests are contemplated together with photo-multiplier techniques to measure the pre-breakdown discharges in the series gap. All of the necessary figures cannot be included here due to space limitation, but will be included in a final published report when the work is completed."
"The impulse and 60 cycle breakdown voltages of SF6 for small spherical electrodes for both the gas and liquid phases are reported. The probable breakdown mechanisms and criteria for estimating the limiting values of breakdown fields are discussed. The results of our impulse breakdown tests for the pressure range of 9 to 380 psia on 3/4 inch diameter spherical electrodes for gaps from 0.04 to 1.2 inches are shown in Figure 1. The gap was irradiated for the gas phase, but not for the liquid phase. It is interesting to note that no discontinuity was found in the impulse breakdown voltage in passing from the gas to the liquid phase, a circumstantial evidence that the breakdown mechanism is similar in the two phases."
"It has long been recognized that corona discharge, in addition to representing a power loss, causes damage to insulation, which may result in eventual failure. Even in equipment designed to be corona-free, flaws or defects, or abnormal conditions which result in high voltages, may produce corona. Moreover, if there would be assurance that corona would be suppressed, various combinations of the alternatives of smaller size, higher operating voltage or longer life of equipment would be possible."
"D. C. voltage fields up to 2.5 million volts per inch were applied to glass samples. It was discovered that the resultant discharge current was modulated by an extremely large number of small individual discharges. These small discharges were monitored on an oscilloscope, and their quantity was recorded by an electronic counter."
"Engineering data for designing corona free insulation systems is needed. These should be based on an understanding of physical events rather than empiricism. Such formulae for solid (dry) systems have been proposed by Halleck1; this report explores limitations in their range of application. The work of Mason, Hall and Russeck, Devins and others showed that in essentially uniform fields, the corona starting voltage of a gas gap between dielectrics is the same as the breakdown voltage of the same gap between metal electrodes. Thus corona start was directly related to Paschen's law, and the engineering computation reduced to determining the applied voltage which would cause Paschen's law voltage to be exceeded."
"In this investigation the behavior of electrode edge corona on insulation surfaces has been explored under several conditions of extreme environment. A majority of tests have been made with a thin electrode adhered to the dielectric, such as an evaporated metal electrode, but some tests have been made with much thicker square edged electrodes resting on the surface. The corona threshold voltage is not very different with unequal evaporated metal electrodes from that previously reported for equal square edge electrodes. The threshold voltage is, as theoretically expected, a function of the ratio of the dielectric thickness to the dielectric constant."
"Trees can propagate in epoxy resins at stresses below 100 vpm. Resistance to treeing probably can not be correlated with other commonly measured breakdown properties. Continuing study is necessary to determine (a) the service conditions in which treeing is an important consideration, and (b) the range of test conditions which reliably rate this characteristic of materials."
"Some years ago, Weber and Endicott1,2,3 published a series of papers on breakdown in transformer oil between parallel plane electrodes. The distribution of breakdown was found to conform closely to a particular extreme value distribution, and since the standard deviation was found to remain constant, a simple formula for calculating the dependence of the mean breakdown voltage on electrode area (or oil volume) was derived."
"Higher AC corona threshold levels can be obtained for plastic films by using metalized coating on the film with suitable liquid or gas impregnation. Further increases may be obtained by corona bombardment in the presence of fluorinated gases. Although this work was done with capacitors, the techniques should be applicable for other electrical apparatus where corona can occur."
"The field due to a line source of magnetic current situated in a lossless plasma region above a perfectly conducting screen is considered when a uniform static magnetic field is impressed throughout the plasma region parallel to the direction of the line source. It is shown that under certain conditions surface waves are excited on the screen. The dependence of the efficiency of excitation of surface waves on the distanced d of the line source from the ground screen is examined. Also, the asymptotic series for the radiation field is derived, and its leading term is shown to vanish for a particular value of d. Under these conditions a strong surface-wave field is maintained near the guiding surface."
"Definitions given herein apply specifically to semiconductor components used for rectification or control of electric power, or both. For the purpose of this standard, a semiconductor rectifier component is a semiconductor rectifier cell, rectifier diode, or rectifier stack. Note that the name of the actual semiconductor material (selenium, silicon, etc.) may be substituted in place of the word \"semiconductor\" in the name of the components.Only those definitions likely to be needed by the user are included."
"The present tables are intended as successors to the tables compiled and issued by the IPCEA in 1943. Those were based on work by the former National Electric Light Association (NELA). The Foreword to those tables may well serve for the present tables."
