"This paper considers the circuit synthesis of a particular type of voltage-to-frequency converter with a predetermined, but arbitrary, voltage-to-frequency characteristic. The basis of this converter is a relaxation oscillator consisting of a linear energy storage network, a combined signal and bias voltage source which provides power to the oscillator, and a single four-layer diode or similar relaxation switch. The paper first attempts to show what forms of characterization such a circuit might reasonably be expected to give in a voltage-to-frequency conversion. A more rigorous argument follows where it is shown that the voltage waveform out of such a network is a linear function of both the signal voltage and the diode current, the current being treated as an impulse discharge from some effective capacity. The sum equation, thus derived, can be solved using a remarkable theorem about the Möbius function of number theory to give the exact form of the desired impulse response of the linear network. As an example of the application and practical limitations of the approach, a network for a fractional root converter is derived and discussed in terms of a completed square-root converter."
"By locating the principle pole and zero of the relevant bilinear function and utilizing some lesser known theorems in Euclidean geometry a simple method is outlined for the evaluation of common design formulas for active bilateral two-port networks. The method is particularly suitable where simultaneous criteria involving power gain, voltage gain or other transfer ratios, stability or impedance level, must be satisfied in the presence of a variable parameter. Various transformations and their merits are outlined, one of the most important being a method for employing the Smith chart in the above evaluations. The relationship of this method to known Euclidean graphical procedures, e.g., the image circle and the Linvill chart is given, indicating these to be special cases within the more general theory."
"In a mixer, modulator or parametric amplifier the quiescent state (no signal) is a driven state, for the local oscillator, carrier, or pump is always on. Thus asymptotic stability in the sense used by control engineers is not applicable. The usual linear circuit stability criterion-every bounded input gives a bounded output-is also unsatisfactory for physical circuits containing nonlinear elements because we know that there are bounded inputs that can burn out the nonlinear element. Consequently this paper begins with the stability criteria: 1) operation is always within the allowable dynamic range of the nonlinear element; 2) a periodic steady state with the same period as the pump (LO or Carrier) is approached asymptotically. The class of circuits discussed consists of a single nonlinear element in an arbitrary linear, time-invariant circuit. For this class a set of conditions that guarantees stability is derived. Special emphasis is placed on circuits where the nonlinear element is reactive because these elements present additional mathematical problems. An example is given to show the applicability of the conditions to a specific circuit."
"This theoretical analysis finds the steady-state and transient second-subharmonic oscillations of a parametric oscillator described by\\ddot{q} + 2k\\dot{q} + (1 - \\delta) q + bq^2 = (3 + \\delta) \\cos 2z. Harmonic balance yields expressions, with experimentally observed double-valued properties, for the steady-state subharmonic amplitude in terms of pump amplitude and frequency. Reducing the pump frequency below twice the forced resonant frequency (i.e.\\delta< 0) provides larger subharmonic amplitude at the expense of a larger minimum pump amplitude required for oscillation. The transient, analyzed by harmonic balance assuming a slowly varying subharmonic amplitude, is portrayed by trajectories in the in-phase vs quadrature amplitude plane. Those singular points which are closer to this plane's origin than the steady-state points are classified using an index theorem. The following results explain the \"hysteresis\" effects in the double-valued steady state: The origin is a saddle point (unstable) when it is the only such singularity; it is either a stable node or focus when two other such singularities appear, these being saddle points. Numerical computations of trajectories for parameters giving a saddle-point origin show that although a measure of the 10-90 per cent response time is given by\\tauIn 9, (\\taubeing the time constant at the origin, measured in subharmonic cycles), this response time does not increase proportionately to\\tauas the pump frequency is decreased. The ratiob/2k = 2provides unexcessive overshoot in attaining steady state without severely degrading\\tau. Experimental checks of the transien and steady state are presented."
"The estimation of carrier frequency and subcarrier epoch in a coded-\"noise\" communication system is discussed. These are the parameters which constitute synchronization of the system. The estimation process is resolved into a sequence of detections, and the distribution of the time necessary to achieve an estimation to within a preset accuracy is given. Various electronic detection methods are considered; in particular, an interesting application of sequential detection is described. This paper treats only the synchronization mode of the receiver. No message information is transmitted until synchronization has been achieved, at which point the receiver enters the communication mode."
"VHF air-ground-air teletype communications by ionospheric scatter propagation have been shown to be feasible. Field strength measurements and baud error data were obtained over a 1500 statute mile flight path across the auroral zone. No degradation of system performance during periods of intense magnetic disturbances was observed; most auroral displays were accompanied by signal enhancement. System performance was evaluated using three orders of frequency diversity and up to six orders of space diversity. Successful teletype operation requires at least two orders of diversity to overcome the severe rapid fading inherent in ionospheric scatter propagation. Synchronous reception was used for the experiment and is recommended for operational systems. An air-ground-air system employing antennas, transmitters and receiving techniques currently available is shown to provide an extremely reliable teletype channel to distances of the order of 1200 statute miles."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Given a communication system of stations and capacitated channels in which there is associated with each channel a bounded nondecreasing cost per unit of information flow, flow patterns are found that maximize the information rate between a given pair of terminal stations at minimum over-all cost."
"Much time and study is being devoted to the improvement of Vocoder speech quality and intelligibility. One factor which is being neglected, however, is the effect of transmission errors on the intelligibility of Vocoded speech. To evaluate this effect, a full duplex 16-Channel Philco Vocoder is employed. Errors are inserted into the PCM output of the transmitter at various rates and in a random fashion. Intelligibility tests are run to determine the loss of intelligibility with increasing error rates. Curves are plotted showing these effects for a number of speakers. Fixed position errors are also inserted within the pitch portion of the bit frame and similar intelligibility tests are run. Results for the random insertion of errors indicate that an error rate of one to two per cent (1 to 2 bits per 100) is tolerable before any appreciable loss in the zero error PB word intelligibility of 82 per cent is apparent. At a transmission error rate approaching five per cent (5 incorrect bits per 100), the Channel Vocoder is capable of a PB word intelligibility of 70 per cent, corresponding to a sentence intelligibility of 90 per cent. Comments on the loss of speech quality with increasing errors are also given. Error insertion in the pitch portion of the frame indicates a surprising ability of the Channel Vocoder to tolerate error while maintaining intelligibility."
"Connected linear graphs are introduced as symbolic models of communication systems. Their nodes of rank one, two, and larger symbolize terminal stations, repeater stations and exchanges of different sizes, respectively. Their branches symbolize circuits, lines or trunks. Connectivity between these system elements imposes a quantitative relationship between the types and numbers of system elements. Matched sets of system elements are sets which meet specific requirements regarding the number of terminal stations which must be interconnected, the number of circuits which can be used or the desired degree of invulnerability of a communication network. From these relationships an algorithm has been developed for the tabulation of matched sets of symbolic system elements (i.e., nodes), and tables of matched sets of nodes have been prepared both manually and with an automatic computer. The use of these tables is explained by practical examples dealing with synthesis problems of communication systems, which have to meet such requirements as described above. An algorithm is presented which permits the direct computation of matched sets of nodes of different ranks for: 1) trees containing specified numbers of terminal nodes; 2) trees containing a specified total number of nodes; and 3) networks with specified indexes of connectivity. Tables are given of matched sets of nodes computed with a 220 Burrough's computer and corresponding networks are shown. Applications of these tables to the synthesis of communication systems are discussed and practical examples using these tables."
"A probabilistic communication network is one in which the nodes and links are subject to random failure (or destruction). For a class of such probabilistic networks-in which user traffic demands are converted and stated in terms of required number of circuits or trunks between each node pair-an optimum method of design and utilization (or control) is described. A linear programming model of the communication network is formulated. The solution yields the initial link capacities and the network restoral (or control) doctrine for maximizing the network performance ratio. Estimates are made of the computational complexity as a function of network size. Both off-line and real-time computer-controlled implementations are described. Several simple numerical examples are presented to illustrate the methods employed."
"The purpose of this theoretical investigation is to study the effects of fading rate on the performance of binary digital communications systems. The performance of three systems is evaluated from the aspect of probability of error per information bit when the desired and undesired signals are subject to statistically independent Rayleigh fading. Diversity reception is not included in the system comparison. The results, which apply only for a nonselective fading environment, of this investigation are the following: The effect of fading rate on communication system performance was evaluated. The information bit error probability function was explicitly related to the signal envelope and phase fluctuations. A Rayleigh-type fading with arbitrary fading rate was assumed for the signal in order to get an understanding of the system performance in a fast fading environment. Three basic types of communication systems were investigated. The first system, called the quadrature detection system, employs large-bandwidth signal duration product (WT) with quadrature detection. The next two systems employ a WT product approximately equal to one. These last two systems were the noncoherent frequency-shift keyed (FSK) and the differentially coherent phaseshift keyed (DPSK), also known as the phase comparison-type system. (Section I.) The comparison of three systems illustrating the effect of Rayleigh signal fading on the mean error probability(\\bar{Pe})showed that the phase comparison system was most critical to fast fading while the noncoherent FSK was somewhat better than the quadrature detection system. The figures show that, for a fading signal bandwidth information bit duration (BT) product of one half, the phase comparison system rapidly degraded to a\\bar{P}eof one half. The other two systems showed a slower rate of degradation as the BT product increased. The quadrature detection system and the FSK receiver with incoherent detection are not identical but are equivalent for slow fading. The performance of these two systems as a function of BT is definitely different. Also, the methods of improving the performance of both systems in a fast fading environment are completely different. The graphs of error probability covering ranges of 102are of practical interest because they illustrate the comparison of the different systems as a function of fading rate and are necessary for an experimental evaluation of the systems. The exact expressions for error probability are given for evaluating any of the three system performances for ranges not covered in the graphs. (Section II.) In the error probability analysis, the basic function which is considered is the conditional probability of error per information bit averaged over the additive noise for a given desired and undesired signal envelope and phase fluctuations. This conditional probability of error will vary from one information bit to the next and, therefore, it must be considered to be a random process. Since this conditional error probability is a random process, it is important to determine its distribution function. It is shown, for the quadrature detection system, that there is a rapid degradation of the quartiles as the BT product increases, whereas the spread of the distribution decreases. An attempt was made to do a similar analysis on the other systems but the analytical problems were more difficult and time did not permit a solution. (Section III.) Received December 19, 1962. RCA Defense Electronic Products Division, Moorestown, N.J. An increase in transmitted signal power always results in a reduction in errors in the quadrature detection and FSK (filters sufficiently separated so there is no intersymbol interference) systems,but in the presence of fading there is a limit on the degree of error reduction which can be attained in the phase comparison system. In the presence of fading these theoretical results show there exists some signal level above which the error rate for the FSK system is less than that for the phase comparison-type system. These conclusions have been verified by field tests. (Section IV.) The performance of the phase comparison systems depends upon the phase stability of the propagation medium. Since these phase stabilities have not been investigated in any great detail, the complete capabilities of the phase comparison systems cannot be made for the various media. (Section V.) The shape of the spectral density of signal fading can have a significant effect on error probability performance. The single-tuned fading spectrum gave the worst error probability performance, the Gaussian spectrum was in the middle and the ideal band-pass spectrum had the least severe effect. (Section VI.) Energy detection of noncoherent FSK signals shows a very significant improvement in system performance over envelope detection in a fast fading environment. In addition, energy detection could result in better performance in a fast fading environment compared to a slow fading environment. This is completely reversed from the envelope detection system. (Section VII.) In quadrature detection using orthogonal coded-type waveforms, it is necessary to have maximum correlation over the entire waveform for minimum error probability. Fast fading will destroy this correlation and thereby increase the error probability. Improved performance may be obtained by subdividing the information bit so that the correlation of the subdivided waveform is high. The correlator outputs of this subdivided information bit are squared and added. The resulting error probability will show a significant improvement in performance in a fast fading environment compared to the nonsubdivided information bit technique. (Section VIII.)"
"In the following study radio emissions from the sun are considered under the separate headings of 1) the quiet sun component, 2) the slowly varying component, and 3) the catastrophic component. An attempt is made to establish some statistics as to the percentage of time that the sun is likely to produce interference in radio communications at frequencies within the \"atmospheric window\" and an optimum working frequency range for use in space communications is deduced. An account is also given of the association between solar radio emissions and ionospheric disturbances."
"The literature on systems design for the transmission of high speed digital data in the \"megabits per second\" range over UHF links is scarce and somewhat contradictory. Essentially, the designer is confronted with an optimization problem of finding the best compromise between radiated bandwidth, power balance, and output SNR, the latter being directly related to the error rate. Confining the analysis to frequency modulation, the available parameters are: transmitter frequency deviation and transmitter band limitation in video and RF stages, receiver predetection band characteristic and noise bandwidth, degree of amplitude limiting and finally receiver postdetection band limitation. The mutual relationship between these parameters and their optimization is analyzed. The effects of intersymbol interference, FM transient characteristics, and FM improvement threshold are discussed, and a simple mathematical expression for strong signal conditions developed by assuming quasi-static conditions in which the carrier is kept at a constant off-tune position. The results are discussed and possible ways of improvements are indicated."
"Synchronization of communications receivers can require lengthy sync search procedures. In order to establish theoretical guideposts for evaluating synchronization systems, an idealized model is assumed in which: 1) Sync exists in one, and only one, of a large number of discrete time cells, 2) the a priori probability distribution of sync position is known and 3) samples taken from any time cell are normally distributed. An optimum search procedure samples at any instant the cell most likely to contain sync based on all previous samples. This minimizes the average synchronization time, or, for a fixed synchronization time, it minimizes the probability of missing sync. The minimum theoretical average sync time is obtained for Gaussian and uniform a priori distributions. For a fixed synchronization time, the minimum theoretical probability of error is given as a function of sync time for the Gaussian and uniform a priori distributions. An equation for the average search time for a practical nonoptimum search procedure is derived which can be applied to any symmetric unimodal a priori distribution. For a Gaussian a priori distribution the expected value of search time for this procedure converges rapidly to optimum."
"This paper compares several techniques of diversity combination without placing the usual restriction requiring the mean signal-to-noise ratios on the various diversity branches to be equal. The probability distribution of the postcombination SNR is calculated for various cases, and it is shown that the shape of this distribution curve is not greatly affected either by the choice of diversity technique or by reasonable unbalance in the mean SNR's on the various diversity branches. Various diversity techniques are compared by calculating the number of decibels by which transmitter power would have to be increased to achieve performance equivalent to that of the maximal-ratio combiner, which is the optimum. The same comparison is shown to hold, at the low SNR's that are of greatest practical interest, for a number of different types of fading, including Rayleigh fading of unequal mean strengths on the various branches, correlated Rayleigh fading, and certain nonRayleigh types. Constant-gain combination, which is a generalization of equalgain combination, is discussed. It is shown that the gains in the different diversity branches should be adjusted to make the noise powers equal before combination."
"This paper discusses the delay probability distributions of store-and-forward (S/F) traffic sent over the same trunks as direct traffic. The operating principles for mixing are the same as described in a previous paper, i.e., the S/F traffic is held back until the trunk group is not congested with the direct traffic: a specified number of trunks are held in reserve for the possible arrivals of direct traffic. In this study, only that portion of the total S/F message delay caused by the presence of the direct traffic on the trunks is investigated. The effect that the S/F traffic has on the distribution of delays is assumed negligible. Because of this assumption, the results apply when the load of the S/F traffic is small compared to direct traffic or, when the load of S/F traffic is appreciable, the results apply to a small portion of the S/F traffic which, because it enjoys the privilege of priority, is placed at the head of the queue. A method of computation and some specific results are presented. The numerical results are for trunk groups of from 2 to 48 trunks. Exponentially distributed holding times of the direct traffic are assumed."
"This paper surveys some recent advances in coding, feedback, and two-way communications. It considers the usefulness of feedback relative to coding, the kind of feedback system to use, the advantages of combining feedback with coding and the characteristics of a system that results therefrom. It then takes up the question of how feedback for error-control purposes can be incorporated into a two-way communication system and the effectiveness of block codes plus feedback in combatting burst-type noise. Finally, the paper presents a brief discussion of existing feedback systems using some of these principles."
"A feedback communications system has been designed, constructed and tested for data transmission over toll-grade telephone circuits. The coding technique employed promises an ultra-low data error rate capability; however, it is shown that such reliability can only be assured when considerable attention is also given to the problems associated with bit and block synchronization. This paper describes the decisions which have been made in the design of the system in terms of telephone circuit characteristics. These characteristics were drawn from many thousands of hours of actual on-line testing. The effects of impulse and random noise are outlined, the hazards of long-term circuit dropouts are detailed and some solutions to these problems presented. Test results of a preliminary error-detection system and a discussion of the techniques used in the prototype feedback system conclude the paper."
"An analysis of the interchannel crosstalk in time division multiplex systems is given. The results apply to systems with a general linear transmission channel and with arbitrary sampling waveforms. The general result is obtained in closed form. This is then applied to the particular case of multiplexing with rectangular waveforms and a single pole transmission channel. A normalized plot of crosstalk vs system parameters for such systems is presented."
"This paper discusses a simple, easily implemented form of retransmission error control; namely, the use of vertical and horizontal block parity checks. The method discussed provides a level of error rate performance which is far better than that which can be expected from the equipment into which it must operate. For instance, for a random bit error probability of 104, a 22 × 22 bit block yields an output error rate of4.4(10)^{-14}, with an efficiency of 87 per cent. This form of retransmission error control, therefore, represents the basic method against which other methods can be compared and evaluated. An analysis is presented which determines the parameters for optimum performance for both random and bunched errors."
"The performance of coding schemes can be expressed by two criteria: the useful transmission rateR, and output character-error probabilityP. Both quantities are expressed in a form applicable to a binary forward channel coupled with an arbitrary feedback channel. Using these criteria the 3-out-of-7 ARQ code is compared with various error-correcting and detecting alternatives of the Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem codes of length2^{m} - 1, wherem = 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. It is found that for a specified binary element-error probability Peone can often find a Bose-ChaudhuriHocquenghem code which is considerably superior. If the element errors are independent of each other a purely error-correcting arrangement looks attractive. If the errors are correlated (i.e., occur in bursts) error detection holds more promise.A (255, 187)code, which is used to correct up to 8 errors and to detect others, shows a superiority which extends over all significant values of Pe."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A statistical model for the occurrence of errors in data transmission over telephone circuits was recently proposed by Berger and Mandelbrot. In their model the intervals between successive errors are distributed independently according to the Pareto distributiont^{-\\alpha}. This paper presents an analysis based on the Pareto model and compares the results with published measurements on telephone networks. Statistics, such as the probability of zero, one or two errors in a block of digits, and the probability of error-free transmission runs for no-error correction or single-error correction codes are derived. Comparison with experiments indicates that the Pareto distribution provides an excellent representation of the error statistics."
"The presence of frequency-selective fading in a communication channel limits the maximum data rate capability of conventional communication systems. Surprisingly little analysis has been carried out to determine the effect of frequency-selective fading on digital (or analog) communication systems. This paper considers the effect of frequency-selective fading on the binary error probabilities of incoherent and differentially coherent matched filter receivers employing postdetection diversity combining. In the analysis it is assumed that the fading is slow enough so that over a few bits at least the channel transfer function remains constant. In addition, it is assumed that the amplitude and phase fluctuations on a received carrier have the same statistical character as those of narrow-band Gaussian noise. The general analytical results are specialized to the cases of frequency-shift keying using incoherent detection, and phase-shift keying using differentially coherent detection for the case of a Gaussian frequency autocorrelation function. For these special cases, signal-to-noise degradation curves are given as a function of the ratio of the binary data rate to the correlation (or coherence) bandwidth. Two types of FSK are considered, phase-continuous and phase-discontinuous. In phase-continuous FSK there is no discontinuity in the phase of the transmitted waveform at the markspace or space-mark epochs. Such an FSK system results when the mark and space frequencies are obtained by frequency modulating an oscillator. In phase-discontinuous FSK phase discontinuities exist at the transition epochs. Such an FSK system results, for example, when the mark and space frequencies are derived by switching between two independent oscillators. An interesting result of the analysis is that the differentially coherent PSK system and the phase-discontinuous FSK system degrade considerably more rapidly with increasing (normalized) data rate than the phasecontinuous FSK system. The existence of an irreducible error probability is demonstrated for the incoherent and differentially coherent matched filter receivers. Thus, in general, an increase in transmitted signal power cannot reduce the error probability below a certain value depending upon the ratio of data rate to correlation bandwidth and order of diversity. Theoretical curves of irreducible error probability are given for the incoherent FSK and differentially coherent PSK systems."
"This paper is concerned with the design of communications networks that have a high probability of surviving the terminals which they serve when both the network and the terminals are subject to bombardment. The probability of survival of a communications network can be increased by either hardening the elements of the network, adjusting the location of the elements or adding additional redundant elements to the network. The choice of technique in any given case is based on cost. The designer's problem is to specify the physical hardness and location of each element of the network so that the network cost is minimized and the network as a whole possesses a probability of survival which is compatible with that of its terminals. The purpose of this report is to suggest an approach to the design of such networks."
"The current global telecommunications plant, an estimated 50 billion dollar investment, is built around the 4-kc channel and frequency division multiplex (FDM). The characteristics of this 4-kc channel are uniquely suited to telephone communications at continental distances (mean of 2000 miles with a dynamic range varying from 200 to 6000 miles) and all but ignore predominately digital communications. The characteristics of the present plant also ignore the possibility of a high percentage of intercontinental connections (mean of 6000 miles and a dynamic range varying from 1500 to 15,000 miles). Intercontinental communication is not limited by feasibility, but by appropriate planning and generally poor signal quality, i.e., low signal-to-noise ratios for speech and high error rates for digital communication. This paper considers the characteristics of digital communications resulting from increases in intercontinental traffic, and indicates the effect of impact of these characteristics on future telecommunication networks."
"The communications potential of radio wave propagation through rock strata in the earth's crust is discussed. Included are geological and geophysical considerations pertinent to communications system design. Expressions are given for radio wave attenuation and wavelength, performance factors of bare and insulated linear antennas, and transmission loss between antennas immersed in dissipative media. Results of calculations are presented in graphical form and a sample of their application to a short transmission path is illustrated. Practical considerations in the design of communication circuits are discussed."
"The best possible group synchronization process is the one that selects the most probable starting position of a sync pattern known to have been inserted into the transmission format. Such a device involves computation of an inverse probability function in each possible location of the sync position. The computer proves to be impractical to instrument, in general, but for a waveform such as PCM with equal positive and negative pulses it reduces simply to a cross correlator as the signal-to-noise ratio increases. This suggests a new and practical philosophy of group synchronization based on statistical hypothesis testing. Practical group synchronizers based on this new philosophy are described that approximate the ideal and their performances are analyzed for a PCM waveform, for hypothesis tests for least squared error, maximum cross correlation and maximum digital cross correlation."
"Given a communication system in which there is associated with each channel a channel capacity and a channel reliability, algorithms are developed for finding routes between a given pair of stations, with maximum capacity and with reliability not less than some prescribed minimum value."
"An experimental appraisal of the Cherry-Gouriet proposals, for the bandwidth compression of television signals by variable-velocity coding, has been made. A flying-spot variablevelocity scanner was built for this purpose. The encoding of the signal in this system is done by a nonlinear feedback loop. Qualitative studies on the stability of the loop have been made. It has been found that the effect of the source noise on the encoder performance is extremely important. It is concluded that owing to the limitations of the devices, the variable-velocity scanner is not practically feasible for television transmissions. However, this system seems ideally suited for LF transmission of pictures. The potential bandwidth compression of the B.B.C. test card C has been determined from its run-length statistics. An open-loop system of bandwidth compression has been described which uses variable-rate sampling. Using the statistics obtained from the test card C, the storage requirement of the open-loop system has been assessed."
"Performance evaluation of a binary-data phasecoherent system is presented for the case when interference is confined to the non-Gaussian component of atmospheric noise. As a first step, a mathematical model of the non-Gaussian component of atmospheric noise in narrow bandwidths is formulated which, for high instantaneous noise voltages, coincides exactly with the empirical atmospheric noise data. Second, the upper and lower bounds on the average bit errors of a phase-coherent system perturbed by the non-Gaussian noise component are derived as functions of the noise parameters. Third, a technique is developed whereby the effects of the entire atmospheric noise can be approximated by a combination of the non-Gaussian and Gaussian components with different power densities."
"This paper is concerned with a communications system havingmchannels and serving a multitude of low-traffic sources. The system incorporates a waiting list havingqplaces. Calls arriving when allmchannels are busy, and up to(q - 1)other calls are already waiting, will be put on the waiting list and will be served in order of arrival. When the waiting list is filled, additional arriving calls will also be permitted to wait. When a place on the waiting list becomes available, one of these remaining waiting calls, chosen at random, will be admitted on this list. The delay distributions for this partly ordered service are investigated in this paper. Results are presented in a number of graphs."
"The structure of optimum receivers for multilink diversity reception of analog, nonlinear modulated signals is outlined. The receivers are optimum in the sense that they are maximum a posteriori probability estimates (an unconditional maximum-likelihood estimate) of the signal over a finite time interval. For the single link case, Youla has developed a pair of integral equations which specify the optimum estimator. For the multiple-signal, multiple-link case, the corresponding two matrix integral equations have been developed by Thomas and Wong. In both cases, the authors treat the AM case in detail and indicate that the equations for the PM case suggest mechanization schemes. This paper is, in essence, a study of the multidimensional implementation schemes and some of their ramifications. Several useful modulation schemes are discussed. For the multilink PM case with additive white Gaussian noise, we show that the optimum demodulator reduces to a generalized maximal-ratio combiner cascaded with an optimum one-dimensional demodulator. The optimum one-dimensional demodulator contains a nonrealizable filter in the feedback loop. By replacing the loop with an iterative structure the nonrealizability is eliminated. Next, a common multiple-carrier modulation schemePM_{n}/PMis discussed. The optimum demodulators are shown. Once again, these loops contain nonrealizable filters. Here it is also possible to replace the feedback structure with an iterative structure to eliminate the nonrealizability. Alternately, one can use realizable filters and have a suboptimal demodulation scheme. In currently used demodulation schemes, the threshold of the main carrier is a primary system limitation. A heuristic explanation of the apparent threshold improvement of these suboptimum demodulators is given. An extension of the analytical development from no-memory modulation schemes such as PM to integral modulation schemes such as FM requires some justification. However, in most modulation schemes, the modulation waveforms are passed through pre-emphasis networks before being modulated onto the carrier. For this case, we show that our estimators are essentially optimum for the multilink FM, and FM,/FM case."
"The paper analyzes a procedure for quantizing blocks ofNcorrelated Gaussian random variables. A linear transformation(P)first converts theNdependent random variables intoNindependent random variables. These are then quantized, one at a time, in optimal fashion. The output of each quantizer is transmitted by a binary code. The total number of binary digits available for the block ofNsymbols is fixed. Finally, a secondN \\times Nlinear transformation(R)constructs from the quantized values the best estimate (in a mean-square sense) of the original variables. It is shown that the best choice ofRisR = p^{-1}, regardless of other considerations. IfR = P^{-1}, the best choice forPis the transpose of the orthogonal matrix wich diagonalizes the moment matrix of the original (correlated) random variables. An approximate expression is obtained for the manner in which the available binary digits should be assigned to theNquantized variables, i.e., the manner in which the number of levels for each quantizer should be chosen. The final selection of the optimal set of quantizers then becomes a matter of a few simple trials. A number of examples are worked out and substantial improvements over single sample quantizing are attained with blocks of relatively short length."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Instantaneous companding is a useful technique for the improvement of the transmission quality of PCM systems. In this paper various nonlinear encoding and decoding techniques without using diode compandors are stated with a focus on the logarithmic decoders, which are composed of cascaded attenuators. Hyperbolic sinusoidal law is also derived from the logarithmic law and is obtained by an attenuation line decoder. These nonlinear laws are attained on the attenuation-linear basis. Likewise, various passive decoders on the immittance-linear basis can be considered. In this case the nonlinear law is expressed by a rational function of the digital variablex. Also a decoder based on the multinomial expansion is introduced, whose nonlinear law is given by a polynomial ofx. It is shown that the hyperbolic sine curve provides more uniform signal-to-noise characteristics for some range of the mean speech volume, while the modified hyperbolic law yields as high signal-to-noise ratio as is obtained by the exponential law without great loss in the signal-to-noise ratio for louder speech. A few experimental studies of these decoders are described."
"In a wide-band communication system the additive disturbances in the channel are less likely to be white Gaussian noise than in narrow-band links. This paper considers the operation of linear receivers for wide-band systems and illustrates how linear receivers can be made more optimum by incorporating a nonlinear transformation which precedes detection. Narrow-band AM stations are assumed to be the only additive disturbance in the channel. Adaptive techniques are also suggested which will yield near optimum operation under varied types of interference."
"Several authors have shown methods for calculating the long-term fluctuation of noise power of multihop systems in which the propagation loss has a log-normal distribution such as in troposcatter FM. However, these methods involve exponentials, the computations are necessarily laborious and time-consuming, and the formulas do not readily reveal the effects of changing parameters. These shortcomings are remedied by two pairs of homographs which eliminate the laborious exponential computations and permit the noise performance calculation to be made within seconds. The nomograms display the effects of varying parameters and clarify the understanding of noise addition. Supplemental data is given reviewing the basis for the calculation, and also in order to enable the reader to extend the nomograms to any other range."
"The nonideal slicing characteristics of pulse regenerators contribute to the error rate of a binary pulse transmission system. The slope at the center of the regenerator slicing characteristic and the tails of the characteristic have great effect on the error rate. In general, for a given signal-to-noise ratio, the steeper the slope of the slicing characteristic, the lower the error rate will be. The characteristics studied are symmetrical but different shapes are considered. The results have been obtained by using computational models and are for base-band pulse transmission. To achieve a specified error rate, a regenerator slicing characteristic with a slope of 1.5 at the center requires an SNR that is about 4 db higher than that needed with an ideal slicer. Slicing characteristics with steeper slopes require smaller increases in the SNR. Slicing characteristics with slopes of 10 and higher can, for all practical purposes, be considered as ideal. In system studies, a nonideal regenerator can be replaced by an ideal regenerator and a proper penalty in the signal-to-noise ratio. For a given slicing characteristic, the signal-to-noise penalty is essentially independent of the SNR in the region of interest."
"A system of time-division exchange is proposed in which the time slots are independently assigned to the originating and terminating subscribers and are interchanged, in setting up connection, by means of an appropriate delay or memory device. Such a system, which is economically feasible if the code modulation techniques are employed, increases the efficiency by avoiding time slot mismatch loss and simplifies the time slot assignment procedure. The functions required to perform the time slot interchange and the approach to realize the principle are described. The system of time slot interchange in an experimental delta-modulation timedivision exchange is also described, which has been constructed to demonstrate the feasibility of the principle. The system employs a magnetostrictive delay line with multiple output taps as the delay device, the outputs of which are switched by means of a magnetostrictive memory to perform the time slot interchange."
"Analytical and experimental studies have been made on RF noise generated by two types of ion propulsion engines, namely the cesium contact ion engine and the Penning discharge engine. An analytical determination of noise generated by neutralized ion beams is made in which the following mechanisms are considered: electron-ion collisions, acceleration of electrons at the plasma boundary, ion-atom collisions, cathode shot noise, ion acceleration, black body radiation from ion emitter surface, and noise growth radiation. No noise was experimentally observed from the cesium contact engine over the frequency spectrum of 38 to 2200 Mc, but the Penning engine exhibited electron cyclotron radiation. Preliminary conclusions of this study are that reliable communications systems with a vehicle involving a Penning discharge propulsion engine should probably be operated above the cyclotron and plasma frequencies."
"A nonlinear filter is investigated and its effectiveness in improving signal detectability in the presence of certain types of non-Gaussian noise is determined. The filter consists of a zeromemory nonlinear device followed by a low-pass filter, the nonlinear device being designed on the basis of only the first-order statistics of the interfering noise and of the sum of signal and noise. The class of noise used in the study is that obtained by passing Gaussian noise through a zero-memory nonlinear element. Because of this the non-Gaussian process can still be characterized by relatively few parameters. The results of the study indicate that, when the noise probability density function is sufficiently different from Gaussian, a considerable improvement in detection reliability can be obtained. When the noise is Gaussian the filter reduces to a linear one."
"a very special case of the synchronization problem is considered. The information-bearing signal is a rectangular waveform and is tmnsmitted through a channel perturbed by a stationary white Gaussian noise. A sinusoidal synchronizing signal is assumed to be transmitted separately from the informationbearing signal and is also perturbed by an independent noise. The Bayes receiver is considered for the detection of the informationbearing signal, s and a synchronizer with a narrow-band filter and an ideal phase detector is assumed."
"The effects of filtering a random binary sequence with certain finite memory linear and nonlinear filters are considered. Of interest are the statistical properties of the filtered sequence such as the power spectral density and amplitude distribution function, as well as methods for recovering the original sequence. Applications of these techniques to communication systems are discussed."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method to shorten the time required for the frame separation in the time-division-multiplexed delta modulation system is described. Employing successive \"1\"s as the sync pattern, the system detects the sync channel out of the delta modulated information pulses which occur at the rate of one half in average. Using a memory device with the capacity of one frame, the detection is performed by taking successive frame correlation of each channel in parallel. For example, in the system with 20 channels, the frame separation is established in approximately six frame periods. The system includes such facilities as to stabilize the frame separation against the error of the sync pattern and against the occurrence of the information pattern similar to the sync pattern. A possibility for shortening further the time required for the frame separation is also described. The method is to modify, at the transmitting end, the information pattern when it appears the same as the sync pattern. The proposed system is also applicable to such cases when the sync pattern consists of several bits by providing a shift register to detect the pattern at the input of the memory device."
"The purpose of the panel is to spread knowledge and shed light on the problems of synchronization and to take steps toward the formulation of a theoretical framework which will also assist the practitioner. We are engaged in an attempt to point out to practicing engineers some of the things which are already well known and relatively obvious from a theoretical standpoint so that, hopefully, the time lag can be greatly reduced between the development of interesting theoretical results such as comma-free codes for the relatively noiseless channel and comma-free orthogonal codes for the Gaussian noisy channel, to name but two examples, and to implement these theoretical results in practical communication systems. From my own standpoint, the chairman feels that the most significant thing which this panel can accomplish is to cause a general awakening among engineers to the fact that there is a synchronization problem, and that it exists both as a theoretical and as a practical problem, and to stimulate thinking in both circles with the ultimate view toward finding a common framework in which the theoreticians are happy to work and from which the practical communications system designers can readily borrow. I believe that this is a goal which is obtainable and one toward which many in the audience here today are capable of contributing. The topics discussed are: synchronization in data communication; on synchronization in communication theory; synchronization and bit timing; and word synchronization over noisy channels."
"The spectrum of a sinusoid, angle-modulated by a stationary Gaussian random process (GRP) of almost arbitrary spectrum, is investigated. Such a GRP provides a convenient model for voice signals, TV signals, and complex communication signals of other types. It is shown that the rms bandwidth of the modulated wave is the product of the rms bandwidth of the modulating wave and the rms angle modulation. In the frequency modulation case, this result says the rms bandwidth of the modulated wave is 1/2π times the rms frequency deviation. A general expansion for the shape of the spectrum of the modulated sinusoid is derived. In certain limiting situations, in addition to reducing to known results, this expansion provides a practical means of obtaining the spectrum in intermediate cases. Examples are presented, showing the spectrum of a sinusoid modulated by 1) a lowpass GRP with rectangular spectrum and 2) a bandpass GRP of Gaussian spectrum."
"Error rates are computed for a binary data transmission system subject to both Gaussian and impulse noise. The rates are displayed as a function of\\lambdaT, whereTis the signal duration and λ-1is the average time between noise pulses. Poisson-distributed impulse noise and periodically recurring noise pulse clusters are considered. Error rates are computed for cases in which 2 per cent, 5 per cent, 10 per cent, 30 per cent, 50 per cent and 100 per cent of the total noise power is impulse noise power, and for signal-to-noise ratios that would give error rates of10^{-4}, 10^{-5}, 10^{-6}and 10-7if the noise were 100 per cent Gaussian. A linear receiver and correlator are assumed and the assumption about the distribution of the correlator output caused by impulse noise is varied to illustrate how this assumption affects the error rate. Stretch transformations are used to modify the error rate curves presented according to system and noise pulse-width parameters. Simple graphical techniques are described for the construction of approximate error rate curves. The computed error rates illustrate, for data transmission systems subject to impulsive interference, the reduction in error rate that can be realized by increasing the signal duration. The simultaneous transmission of orthogonal signals is discussed. This makes it possible to use signals having a long duration without reducing the data rate or causing intersignal interference; this can be done without requiring additional bandwidth."
"Considerable attention has been given in the past to the design and specification of optimum (a posteriori probability computer) receivers. In this paper we consider the problem of communicating through the Rayleigh-Fading-Multipath channel with additive noise. The a posteriori probabilities necessary for specifying different receiver modes for various forms of a priori channel knowledge are derived. System performance is analyzed and computed for several modes of operation and the results presented in graphical form, allowing one to determine the importance of making measurements on the unknown channel state."
"The transmission of high-speed digital data over long-haul military and commercial communication facilities has been a difficult problem for system designers because there are so many different types of communications facilities with widely differing characteristics which must be considered. Additionally, the system designer must consider the type of digital data modulation which best serves his purposes, the economics of the various approaches and a host of related problems such as clocking,, synchronization, standardization, etc. The major obstacle to progress in this area has been the reluctance of individuals to assign numerical values to telephone circuit parameters. It is the purpose of this paper to assign numerical values to all the parameters that are of concern in the data transmission problem and to show how the various parameters are interrelated and how the information can be usefully applied towards a system design. The paper is concerned with data transmission over voice channels having a nominal bandwidth of 3 kc and over the 48-kc group allocations found in most frequency division multiplex systems. The first portion of the paper is devoted to a discussion of the many factors that must be considered. This includes delay distortion, noise, multipath distortion, bandwidth and amplitude response, transmit level, level variations, frequency translation errors, synchronization, standardization, cost considerations and facilities characteristics. The latter portion of the paper shows how these factors can be used to solve problems related to the transmission of high-speed digital data over military and commercial communications facilities."
"It is shown that the problem of finding the most reliable route between two stations in a communication system can be reduced to the problem of finding the shortest path between two nodes in a weighted linear graph. The known methods for finding the shortest path in a linear graph are extended to apply to any communication system, and simplified algorithms and computer subroutines are presented."
"The engineering of telecommunications networks proceeds from an estimate of potentially offered loads in the descriptive form of input-output tables, through a functional design stage, to the redevelopment of inadequate existing facilities or, occasionally, the implementation of entirely new ones. Networks are, by definition, highly structured entities. Thus, the intermediate stage in the engineering process is one of analysis of demand statements for embedded but not directly evident structure. This paper introduces a gross measure of organization or structure, then describes an arithmetic procedure for the detection of structural pattern in interaction systems. It concludes with illustrative examples and a program for further research. While the problem examined here is framed in the telecommunications environment, the argument is not particular to communications and may, therefore, bear on social, transportation and like interaction systems. Since organizations are control systems characterized by their information flows, these can be studied as information networks."
"This paper treats the modulation of light by means of electro-optic modulators and the detection and analysis of the modulation by means of photocell detectors. The problem of electro-optic modulators is formulated in terms of the anisotropic materials used to create the modulation effects. This formulation is used to derive the harmonic structure for a variety of electro-optic modulators. Comparisons are then made between the frequency and power responses of the various modulators."
"This paper is concerned with various aspects of the characterization of randomly time-variant linear channels. At the outset it is demonstrated that time-varying linear channels (or filters) may be characterized in an interesting symmetrical manner in time and frequency variables by arranging system functions in (timefrequency) dual pairs. Following this a statistical characterization of randomly time-variant linear channels is carried out in terms of correlation functions for the various system functions. These results are specialized by considering three classes of practically interesting channels. These are the wide-sense stationary (WSS) channel, the uncorrelated scattering (US) channel, and the wide-sense stationary uncorrelated scattering (WSSUS) channel. The WSS and US channels are shown to be (time-frequency) duals. Previous discussions of channel correlation functions and their relationships have dealt exclusively with the WSSUS channel. The point of view presented here of dealing with the dually related system functions and starting with the unrestricted linear channels is considerably more general and places in proper perspective previous results on the WSSUS channel. Some attention is given to the problem of characterizing radio channels. A model called the Quasi-WSSUS channel is presented to model the behavior of such channels. All real-life channels and signals have an essentially finite number of degrees of freedom due to restrictions on time duration and bandwidth. This fact may be used to derive useful canonical channel models with the aid of sampling theorems and power series expansions. Several new canonical channel models are derived in this paper, some of which are dual to those of Kailath."
"Consideration is given to a transmission technique which is based on the combination of frequency-shift keying (FSK) and time-shift keying (TSK). In the resulting frequency and timeshift keyed (FTSK) transmission, the two possible states of a binary waveform are represented by the order of two pulses which occur on different frequencies, for instance, f1and f2. For example, if the ordered pair(f_{1}, f_{2})represents a Mark, then(f_{2}, f_{1})represents a Space. The power spectrum, as well as the performance of both coherent and noncoherent systems in an interference environment, is investigated. The following cases are considered: 1) white noise interference, with and without fading and 2) CW interference. It is shown that with white noise interference and no fading, the performance of a coherent FTSK system is identical to that of coherent FSK and TSK systems operating at the same data rate. Under similar conditions, the performance of a noncoherent FTSK system would be slightly degraded (less than 1 db for digit error probabilities less than 10-1) compared to that of noncoherent FSK and TSK systems. FTSK's dual frequency diversity is shown to provide a substantial antifading capability to both coherent and noncoherent transmissions. Furthermore, it is observed that FTSK offers the potential for: 1) complete rejection of CW and other forms of narrow-band interference, 2) simplified postdetection signal coupling circuits, 3) enhanced performance of digit synchronization circuits and 4) error detection and correction."
"A particular class of optimization problems, in which the system equations and index of performance are linear in the control variable, is examined in detail. Pontryagin's Maximum Principle seems to indicate an optimal control of the bang-bang type for this class of problems. However, it is shown that the optimal control may actually consist of intervals of variable control effort (called \"singular control\") combined with intervals of bang-bang control. The conditions which characterize singular control are derived. Some techniques are given which may be helpful in detecting and calculating singular controls in this class of problems. In general, it cannot be stated a priori that singular control will necessarily constitute part of the optimal control. Two examples are worked out in detail to illustrate application of the techniques given in the paper."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An analytical method is proposed for practical design of electrohydraulic servomechanisms with near time-optimal response. The method, a dual-mode approach, involves opening the valve ports as wide as possible during the initial acceleration, followed by controlled closure during deceleration. The decelerating motion of the actuator load is critically controlled so that the actuator acts on the verge of cavitation. The proposed method leads to a simple dual-mode controller which can be implemented by a reasonably small amount of hardware. When a typical system was simulated on an analog computer, the results substantiated the validity of this design method."
"This paper presents a digitally oriented technique for the control of processes in which a primary characteristic of the process is a set of pure transport delays associated with the input/output dynamics of the process. The paper is divided into two major sections: A section which formulates the continuous control problem into discrete form. Thus the problem becomes amenable to computational solution on a digital computer. A section which provides a theoretical solution to the minimum-finite-settling-time regulating problem. The development of the theory indicates the similarities between control of processes with and without pure transport delays. In this respect, the paper represents an extension of recent ideas presented in the area of multivariable saturating systems."
"General rules are proved for minimal time control of a linear system with the constraints that both the manipulated variablem(t)and its derivative\\dot{m}(t)are amplitude limited: 1)\\dot{m}(t)is always at its extreme value unlessm(t)is at its extreme value, 2) for normal systems the minimal time path is unique and consequently optimum switching boundaries can be defined, and 3) the choice of\\dot{m}(t)maximizes a Hamiltonian with a modified adjoint function. The above rules are applied to third-order control systems with decidedly favorable results."
"Three practical identification techniques are analyzed, and the time required by each of these techniques to estimate, in the presence of noise, the impulse response of an unknown system, within a specified accuracy, is determined. The identification time can be expressed in each case as the product of twice the gain-bandwidth product of the system being identified, divided by the variance of the estimate times the output SNR. The equivalence of the three methods is discussed and it is shown that the identification time of these methods represents the minimum identification time when a priori knowledge about the unknown system is not available."
"This paper treats the problem of minimal time control of a class of pulse-width-modulated (PWM) regulator systems with plants described by a nonlinear second-order differential equation. For the type of nonlinearity considered, it is found possible to carry out the necessary phase plane constructions by making use of the geometric properties of the solutions of the plant differential equation. The resulting optimal strategy is quite simple and is similar to the one for PWM systems with linear second-order plants whose transfer functions have nonpositive poles and no finite zeros [3]."
"Experimental frequency response data obtained from a linear dynamic system is processed to obtain the transfer function as a ratio of two frequency-dependent polynomials. The difference between the absolute magnitudes of the actual function and the polynomial ratio is the error considered. The polynomial coefficients are evaluated as the result of minimizing the sum of the squares of the above errors at the experimental points. The polynomial coefficients are computed numerically using an IBM 704 FORTRAN program. The magnitude and phase angle of the transfer function are evaluated at the various frequencies, using the computed polynomial ratio; and are compared with the observed data. The method presented here gives an analytic description of the complex transfer function superior to that given by minimization of the \"weighted\" sum of the squares of the errors in magnitude."
"This paper illustrates the use of optimization theory in the synthesis of a linear time-varying feedback control by carrying out the design of an aircraft landing system. The optimization method employed is the Parametric Expansion Method. A number of different controls are synthesized by selecting different functional forms for the weighting factors appearing in the error index formulated from the performance requirements. These controls are compared by presenting the landing trajectories of the aircraft."
"This work considers a two-input linear time-invariant discrete system whose state transition equation is given byX_{k+1} = AX_{k} + Du_{k+1}whereA = n \\times nconstant nonsingular matrix; xkis ann-rowed state vector of the system att=kT;Dis ann \\times 2constant control matrix with columns d1and d2; andu_{k+1}is a 2-rowed control vector with componentsu^{1}_{k+1}andu^{2}_{k+1}. The control vectoru_{k+1}is restricted to be an admissible control, i.e.,|u^{i}_{k+1}| \\leq 1fori=1, 2andk=0, 1, .... The two-input minimal time regulator problem may be stated as follows 1) Given any arbitrary initial state of the system, find admissible control vectorsu_{1}, u_{2}, ...which will bring the system to equilibrium (i.e., the statex=0) in the minimum number of sampling periods. 2) Determine an optimal strategy, i.e., determine a vector valued functionu^{0}(x)of the statexsuch that if the system is in statexat a sampling instant,u^{0}(x)is an admissible optimal control for the next sampling period. First, the general necessary and sufficient conditions for the system to be controllable with admissible controls are established. For a controllable system it is shown that the optimal strategy at each sampling instant requires the following: For each componentu^{i}_{k+1},i=1, 2,there exists a unique(n-1)-dimensional hypersurface\\varepsilon^{i},i=1, 2. The optimal strategyu^{0}(x_{k+1})is then a simple nonlinear function of each of the λi's where λiis the distance of x0from\\zeta^{i}along a direction parallel toA^{-1}d_{i}, fori=1, 2. This optimal strategy therefore satisfies the operations of the feedback computer in order that the system returns to equilibrium in minimum time after any arbitrary disturbances. The results of this work are applicable to all discrete systems of the above form which are controllable by admissible controls irrespective of whether the eigenvalues ofAare distinct or multiple, real or occur in complex conjugate pairs. Furthermore, the theory is directly extendable to the case whereD=n \\times mconstant matrix andu_{k+1}is anm-rowed control vector;m > 2, subject to the admissibility constraint|u^{i}_{k+1}| \\leq 1, i=1, 2, . . ., m."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A technique for determining the dynamic response characteristics of time-varying linear systems is presented. A model composed of a parallel connection of filters whose impulse responses are orthogonalized exponential functions is used. The input to the system is fed to each of the filters. The coefficients of linear regression of the system output on each of the filter outputs are determined. Time-varying characteristics are measured by determining successively the coefficients from short samples of the input and output signals of the system. Many of the statistical properties of regression coefficients are known and can be used to estimate the length of sample of input and output signals required to determine the coefficients with given variance. The measurement technique has been implemented on a high speed digital computer. Results obtained by applying the technique to measurement of a variety of digitally simulated filters and to measurement of human pilot control characteristics are presented."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A simple procedure for direct synthesis of linear feedback systems which is applicable to either continuous or sampled data processes is derived. Given the transfer function of the process to be controlled and constraints on desired closed-loop dynamics, the procedure yields an exact analytical solution for the transfer function of the required compensator without recourse to graphical techniques. Suitable constraints include specification of any or all closed-loop poles and/or specification of the position, velocity, or acceleration error constant. Design for specified rise time, overshoot, mean-squared error, etc., may be accomplished by using an iterative routine. The procedure is ideally suited for implementation by digital computer and has been applied to a simulated adaptive flight control system which required that the entire compensator design procedure be executed by a computer without the aid of human intervention."
"The determination of a stability domain of a control system, the motion of which is described by nonlinear differential equations, is often the object of intensive experimental and theoretical attack. This paper, partly tutorial and partly a presentation of new results, describes a method for obtaining a solution to this problem proposed recently by the Russian mathematician, V. I. Zubov. The tutorial part outlines the fundamental principles of V. I. Zubov's procedure for constructing Lyapunov functions for non-linear systems. If the construction problem can be solved, it leads to a Lyapunov function which uniquely defines the exact boundary of the stability region. For the application of the method, several simple examples are treated in which the exact stability region is found in analytic closed form. Since the construction procedure requires the solution of a linear partial differential equation, there are many cases for which an exact analytic solution is not possible. In some of these cases, however, it is possible to construct an approximate series solution which is always at least as good as the usual quadratic form Lyapunov function. The series construction procedure has been programmed (in IBM 7070 FORTRAN language) for a broad class of differential equations of the second order. A simple example solved by the digital computer program is described."
"In a recent paper Benedict and Bordner derived the relationship between α and β for an optimized \"\\alpha=\\beta\" sampled-data tracker. This note shows how the optimization condition is modified when acceleration terms are included and the tracker becomes an \"\\alpha=\\beta=\\gamma\" tracker. The optimization relationship between\\alpha, \\beta, \\gammais2\\beta - \\alpha (\\alpha + \\beta + \\frac{1}{2}\\gamma) = 0."
"The sensitivity of sampled-data systems to plant variations and load disturbance is examined with reference to two fundamental configurations. It is shown that the sensitivity function of a sampled-data system containing no continuous feedback is theoretically limited if the plant possesses low-pass response characteristics. Since the limitation imposed by sampling can be removed by continuous feedback, consideration is given to a sampled-data system containing a continuous minor-loop feedback path. A sensitivity function is derived which measures the individual effectiveness of the inner and outer loops in desensitizing the system, thereby providing the basis for a realistic design approach. This sensitivity function is applied to a design example."
"A class of limit cycling feedback control systems is investigated using a simple and practical analytic tool to determine input-output dynamic response characteristics. The nature of the dynamic response adaptivity of such systems is shown. A model is derived for the dynamic response characteristics of the amplitude of the limit cycle. Experimental verification is given for each of the principal theoretical results."
"A procedure is presented for finding the best (minimum mean-square error) filter out of a class of dual-mode (adaptive) filters when the input consists of a sample out of an ensemble of fixed order polynomials plus \"almost white\" noise. The discussion is based on sampled data filtering with the error being observed only at uniformly spaced sampling instants. The filters are non-linear, and consist of two linear discrete subfilters and an input-sensitive decision element which switches between them. The linear subfilter design procedures used here are modifications of the Zadeh-Ragazzini approach to polynomial filtering. The modification makes the resulting filters unbiased estimators over an ensemble of polynomials of a given degree rather than unbiased for each polynomial of a given degree. Simultaneous optimization of the filter functions and switching rule results in transcendental equations which must be solved by trial and error. An efficient iterative procedure for searching out the solutions is presented."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The problem of designing a single-axis rigid-body flight vehicle attitude controller to minimize control fuel consumption is formulated in the framework of system optimization theory. A performance measure which consists of the integral-square position and rate errors plus control fuel expended, with arbitrary relative weighting factors, is employed. The Pontryagin Maximum Principle is invoked to show that the controller which minimizes this measure is of the bang-off-bang type. The calculations are carried through and an explicit design solution given for the problem of a minimum-fuel space-vehicle attitude control."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Review of the various aspects of biological control systems and their relation to feedback theory is presented in this paper. To systematize the study of biocontrol systems the material is classified into the following topics: 1) General Human Operator Dynamics; 2) Neuromuscular Systems; 3) Eye Dynamics; 4) Respiratory and Circulatory Systems; 5) Biological Process Control; 6) Central Nervous Systems and Brain. Each of the above topics is summarily discussed and each is separately documented with the pertinent literature and research activities. In the conclusion of the paper the connection between the recent theoretical work in feedback control and the problems of bio-control systems is discussed. It is hoped that with this survey a new burst of research activities on the part of control scientists in the challenging field of biocontrol systems will be materialized."
"A procedure for the design of a digital controller to compensate a certain class of linear time-varying processes is presented. The process time variation may be rapid compared to the input signals and is assumed to be caused by modulation of a plant with known parameters by a number of correlated random disturbances. Correlated additive noise may also be present. Plant identification is performed using state variable estimation techniques, while correlation of the random disturbances allows future plant behavior to be predicted. The adaptive controller is designed to optimize the predicted plant behavior over the near future, with controller redesign taking place as new information becomes available from the estimator. Test signals are not required if the plant statistics are known."
"A direct synthesis method is presented for obtaining a discrete compensator to produce a finite-settling-time transient in response to a prescribed input with no intersample transient terms after the finite settling time. The method is applicable to a single constant-frequency sampler in a feedback system with any type of hold for any polynomial input. The method uses a fictitious sampler at the output with sample timeT/mto scan the intersample times and to obtain criteria for deadbeat transients. The criteria are derived from root locus considerations but are applied to Laplace transforms containing both functions ofsand functions ofzso that the only operations are analytic ones."
"While studying the responses of the oculomotor system to horizontally moving visual stimuli some interesting learning patterns were observed. Responses to Gaussian random noise, sine, and square-wave inputs were investigated. Based on small-signal, linear analysis, the system's transfer function was computed on the basis of both sinusoidal and random inputs. Assuming unity feedback, the open-loop transfer function was also computed for both of the above inputs. It is shown that the anticipatory behaviors observed during the tracking of periodic inputs, can be attributed to a prediction operator. This operator is determined by comparing the open-loop transfer functions for both stimuli. It is shown that the effect of this operator is a significant increase in low-frequency gain, and considerable phase-lead; monotonically increasing with frequency."
"When an uncorrelated, wide-band Markov noise process contaminates the input signal to a linear sampled-data feedback system, the extreme values of the mean-square true error and the mean-square apparent error are shown to occur for most practical purposes at the same value of the scalar loop gain. The gain parameter in an adaptive system may therefore be adjusted for minimum mean-square true error by minimizing the corresponding apparent error. An actual practical example is used to illustrate the result."
"The purpose of this paper is to develop a matrix representation for linear multivariable systems which describes bilateral properties like output interaction and can be used to simplify the analysis of systems composed of interconnected multivariable elements. This representation is analogous to the circuit parameters used to describe two-port communications networks. Examples of the application of the proposed matrix to a physical system are given and certain properties are discussed which can be described in terms of either the system matrix or the principle of invariance."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Nonlinear systems of the form\\dot{X}(t)=g[x(t);t]+u(t), wherex(t), u(t), andg[x(t); t]arenvectors, are examined in this paper. It is shown that if\\parellelx(t)\\parellel = \\sqrt{x_{1}^{2}(t) + ... + x_{n}^{2}(t)}is constant along trajectories of the homogeneous system\\dot{X}(t)=g[x(t); t]and if the controlu(t)is constrained to lie within a sphere of radiusM, i.e.,\\parellelu(t}\\parellel \\leq M, for allt, then the controlu^{\\ast}(t)= - Mx(t} /\\parellelx(t)\\parelleldrives any initial state\\xito 0 in minimum time and with minimum fuel, where the consumed fuel is measured by\\int \\liminf{0} \\limsup{T}\\parellel u(t) \\parelleldt. Moreover, for a given response timeT, the control\\utilde(t) = -\\parellel\\xi\\parellel x(t)/T \\parellel x(t) \\parelleldrives\\xito 0 and minimizes the energy measured by\\frac{1}{2}\\int \\liminf{0} \\limsup{T}\\parellelu(t)\\parellel^{2}dt. The theory is applied to the problem of reducing the angular velocities of a tumbling asymmetrical space body to zero."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"One of the major problems in missile control is the change in missile dynamics caused by changing aerodynamic parameters. The method of control described herein possesses control capability for a wide range of aerodynamic parameters utilizing only information derived from the state variables of the system. Liapunov's second method was used to derive the form of the control signal. The analysis was based on the control of an autonomous, stable plant. However, with only a slight change in the form of the signal, it was possible to stabilize a forced unstable system. The control signal was constructed by summing the weighted states of the plant and using this to trigger a bistable amplifier. The output of the bistable amplifier was summed with the command to the system. The analysis and analog computer study used a 3rd-order linearized model of typical missile dynamics. The computer study has shown that it was possible to control this model for a wide range of aerodynamic parameters. The advantages of this controller over more sophisticated adaptive control systems that might yield similar control characteristics are its simplicity and its all-electrical nature."
"In many control system applications an adaptive system is required to accommodate changes in plant dynamics. A self-adaptive system described herein adjusts two control system parameters to maintain the closed-loop response essentially constant in spite of large changes in the plant gain and pole-zero locations. The adaptive system uses a high-frequency dither frequency to interrogate the state of the control system. Two self-adaptive performance criteria (SAPC) adjust the two adaptive parameters. One SAPC is based upon the amplitude response to the dither frequency and the other is based upon the phase response. The adaptive loop associated with the amplitude SAPC adjusts the control system loop gain; the adaptive loop associated with the phase SAPC adjusts a variable compensation network. A method is developed for analyzing the stability and performance of the self-adaptive parameter adjustment loops. The stability analysis includes the interaction between these adaptive loops. This two-parameter adaptive system is applied to a specific example to illustrate the techniques developed in the paper."
"The total variance of important output quality characteristics of continuous-sheet processes serves as a valuable qualitative guide for process control. Where significant correlation exists between a machine adjustment and a single component of the quality characteristic variance, quantitative decisions resulting in specific machine adjustments can be made. For improved control to be realized in such situations, however, the control system must be capable of performing real-time calculations of appropriate variance components. This paper presents three measurement-computing systems for the real-time, in-line calculation of the profile (cross-sheet), machine direction, and random components of variance of the output of a continuous-sheet process. A general analysis-of-variance model is developed in terms of actual sensor outputs and scanning patterns and then adapted for each of the three systems presented."
"A fairly new type of compensator for carrier control systems consists of a passive electric network that contains one or more periodically-conducting branches. This type of compensator (referred to as a demodulating compensating network) is superior to other types, used previously, in terms of size, weight, cost, and sensitivity to variations in carrier frequency. Although a detailed analysis of the operation of a demodulating compensating network is usually very tedious, it is possible to describe the effect of such a network in a feedback control system very simply by the use of an equivalent time-invariant passive electric network. A procedure for designing a phase-lead demodulating compensating network to meet specifications on system performance is presented in this paper. In essence, this procedure consists of the following steps. First, the uncompensated frequency response of the system is examined. Then an acceptable and realizable phase and/or gain characteristic is selected. Finally, by the use of design curves, the parameters of the demodulating compensator required to provide the desired frequency response are determined. Numerical examples are included to illustrate the application of the design procedure, and experimental results are reported to reveal the value of the procedure."
"Delta modulation has often been viewed as a type of PCM and has been analyzed by probabilistic methods. This paper views delta modulation as a hybrid PDM/PAM system. A nonlinear feedback model is constructed and subjected to digital computation on an IBM 650. Computation is enabled by trapezoidal convolution, an approximateZ-transform method for solving dynamical systems. Responses to various steps and ramp inputs for unity and nonunity feedback are considered. Dead space is also introduced into the nonlinearity in the forward link. A series of computer runs is condensed and observations are reported. A typical observation is that a trade-off exists between average error and noise and that both may not be minimized by any one of two versions of the delta modulator."
"This paper describes an all-electronic analogue of the complex plane in which singularities are positioned by potentiometor settings. Although the basic principle is old, a new method of determining the argument of a function is presented and its implementation discussed. A machine called the Pole-Zero Analogue Computer was constructed to test the method and perform various operations such as the plotting of root loci, Nichols loci and equipotential lines. Other functions which can be performed include the plotting of magnitude, logarithmic-magnitude, phase-slope and phase characteristics of filters or linear systems in general. All of these applications are discussed and test results are presented."
"In this paper a study of the self-sustained oscillations in systems which contain a nonlinear element of the piecewise linear type with or without memory is presented. A method is developed by which one may systematically detect possible symmetric limit cycles, and subsequently identify the oscillations completely. Vector-matrix techniques are employed to transform certain points between regions of the phase space. The boundaries of the regions of phase space correspond to the break points of the piecewise linear characteristic. A set of equations which determine points on a possible closed trajectory are derived using the transformations. Certain switching conditions which are necessary for the existence of an oscillation are applied to these equations. From the solution of the resulting equations, points on the closed trajectory are determined. Using the values of the coordinates of these points, one computes the waveform of the oscillation. Applications of the method to control systems with various configurations are discussed in theory and illustrative examples are presented."
"The purpose of this paper is to give a coherent picture of the process-parameter estimation. It offers a philosophy by introducing a \"generalized model.\" From this, two classes of schemes can be derived. In each class there is quite some freedom with respect to the choice of elements of the scheme, the choice of the error criterion, and the choice of signal representation (continuous, sampled, quantized, etc.). These choices account for a whole range of estimating systems. The dynamic properties of many of these systems can be studied by the approach presented in this paper. The extension to estimation of nonlinear processes is also discussed."
"An analytical approach based on the work of Wiener is taken to develop an expression for an optimum linear feedback control system that will minimize the random variations in the flux of a nuclear power reactor. The optimization criterion is the minimization of the mean-square value of these random variations. In determining the optimum control system transfer function, an acceleration constraint is placed on the control-rod drive mechanism. To demonstrate the technique presented, an optimum control system transfer function is derived for the experimental boiling water reactor (EBWR) under specified operating conditions. The changes in the mean-square value of reactor flux caused by varying acceleration constraint level is discussed. Results show that a considerable reduction in the mean-square value of the random flux variations can be obtained through external control."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The problem of finding periodic solutions of relay (or \"flip-flop\") systems with dead zones is considered. A method for approximating such solutions is offered here, in which the original problem is reduced to a similar problem for an ideal relay system. The reduction is effected by \"sloppy superposition,\" i.e., by modification of the principle of convex superposition in piecewise-linear systems. A successful application and a possible extension of the method are mentioned briefly."
"This paper is concerned with the control of two distinctnth-order linear systems described in the standard state vector notation. Since both systems are ofnth order their state vectors can be placed in the samen-dimensional phase space. A problem is formulated in which it is desired to transfer each system from separate initial states to some undetermined but coincident state (state vector rendezvous). This goal is to be accomplished in minimum time while the input vectors of both systems are amplitude constrained. Complete necessary and sufficient conditions which must be satisfied by time-optimal solutions are developed, and additionally, a technique for computing the optimum controls is given."
"This paper presents a complete solution for the optimum linear system which operates onnstationary and correlated random processes so as to minimize error variance in filtering or prediction. A simple closed-form answer results if the matrix\\Phi(s)of spectra of the input signals can be factored such that\\Phi(s) = G(-s)G^{T}(s)whereG(s)andG^{1}(s)represent matrices of stable transforms in the Laplace variables. A general factoring procedure for rational matrices is presented.G(s)can be viewed as the system which would reproduce signals with the spectrum of\\Phi(s)when excited bynuncorrelated unit-density white-noise sources. In the case of a multidimensional filter, whenG(s)is separated by partial fractions into two terms,S(s) + N(s), having 1hp poles from the signal and noise spectra, respectively, the optimum unity-feedback filter is shown to have a forward-loop transference ofS(s)N^{-1}(s)."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes a series of systematic steps to synthesize a multivariable controller. It is a particularly useful technique when there is required partial or full noninteraction in conjunction with invariance of certain of the outputs with respect to disturbance vectors. This is a structure oriented method where the critical plant parameters and variables are reflected in the controller structure. The resulting controller structure permits a simple final field adjustment of controller parameters during the initial operation period. In addition, these same properties allow adaptive methods that require adjustment of very few of the parameters in response to environmental or plant changes. The problems of physical realization of controller elements and of achieving the desired control specifications are handled by a technique that may operate on the structure as it is derived. These operations clearly show the alternatives available, both in structuring and in realizing elements. These features indicate that algorithms to aid the design procedure would be quite possible for use on digital computers."
"The very successful performance attained by the TRADEX UHF Transmitter in the TRADEX RADAR represents a significant step forward in transmitter capability over previous super-power efforts. Prior to the TRADEX application, UHF super-power was limited to brute-force installations, where long range was of prime importance and relatively coarse target data were perfectly acceptable. The TRADEX RADAR, in addition to maintaining a requirement for operation at extremely long ranges, incorporates several unique, highly sophisticated concepts."
"Since the inception of modern plasma research, microwaves have played an important role. It has first served as a diagnostic tool to determine such properties of the plasma as electron density, collision frequency and electron temperature. Second the plasma with an applied magnetic field has served as a medium with interesting propagation properties, which may be exploited for various microwave devices."
"The theoretical problem discussed here is best illustrated by Figure 1. We wish to find the propagation constant of electromagnetic waves down a parallel-plane waveguide filled with a plasma magnetized parallel to the conducting planes and perpendicular to the direction of propagation. The geometry of this problem is shown in this figure along with the relationship of the components of the dielectric constant K, K , and K/sub o/ to the plasma parameters. If the boundary value problem for this case is solved under the assumption of no variation of the fields in the \"x\" direction, three solutions are obtained. Two of these solutions can be shown to be related to the well known \"ordinary\" and \"extraordinary\" waves in an infinite plasma. The third solution has no counterpart in an infinite medium."
"Breakdown below the normal threshold can be induced in a waveguide system by the presence of a hot surface because the adjacent layer of heated gas is more readily ionized. Under uniform conditions the breakdown electric field strength is inversely proportional to absolute gas temperature. However, if the layer of hot gas is sufficiently thin, the rate of electron diffusion out of the region of ionization tends to restore the breakdown threshold. Thus breakdown can be controlled because the thickness of the film of hot gas is a function of the velocity of the gas across the hot surface. To take advantage of this effect cool gas may be forced across the hot surface with the added benefit of cooling the hot surface."
"E. M. T. Jones has considered the general synthesis of transmission line filters consisting of short-circuited, quarter-wave stubs spaced a quarter-wavelength apart on sections of transmission line, each of undetermined characteristic impedance. He has shown that the insertion loss function, P/sub L/, of a symmetrical filter of this type will take the form P/sub L/=1+Q/sup 2//sub n+1/ (w)/(1+w/sup 2/)/sup n/ , where Q/sub n+1/(w) is an even or odd polynomial of degree, n + 1, in w with real coefficients, and n is the number of quarter-wavelength series-sections of transmission line. He has also pointed out how equiripple performance can be achieved for arbitrary bandwidth and tolerance by means of an ingenious potential analogy suggested by V. H. Grinich. The Grinich transformation is rather involved, with the result that Jones limited his calculations to the coefficients of Q/sub n+1/(w) for only a single bandwidth ."
"Coupled-transmission-line directional couplers of the simple quarter-wavelength type have theoretically perfect isolation and input match. The coupling varies sinusoidally with frequency, giving a useful bandwidth of approximately 2:1, but much greater bandwidths may be obtained by cascading sections. Thus for example a coupling of 3 db /spl plusmn/ 0.4 db over a 5:1 band may be obtained using a symmetrical three-quarter wavelength coupler. However this is not optimum in the sense of having maximum bandwidth for a given coupling tolerance, owing to the restriction placed on the coupling function by making the two outer elements equal. When the three elements are allowed to be all unequal, then it is possible to obtain an optimum Tchebycheff coupling characteristic with two ripples."
"Consider the filter configuration consisting of a number of shorted quarter wave stubs spaced a quarter wavelength apart on an otherwise uniform transmission line. What tapering of the characteristic impedances of the stubs will yield a maximally-flat transmission characteristic?"
"In microwave technology, resonant cavities may be coupled through a hole in a common wall. The general principles of such coupling are well known."
"Approximate techniques accurate only for filters with narrow stop-bands have previously been used for the design of band-stop filters. In this paper, exact synthesis techniques due to Ozaki and Ishii are adapted for the straight-forward design of band-stop filters having stop-bands of any desired width ."
"Equal-element band-pass filters provide the lowest midband insertion loss possible with a given number of resonators and a specified rejection bandwidth or skirt response. Losses can often be reduced by 1 to 2 db. A technique applicable to narrow-band equal-element filters has been developed that holds for both large and small dissipation factors. Using this technique, circuit constants can be determined for filters having from two to eight coupled resonators. Formulas are given for lumped-constant and strip-transmission-line circuits."
"Summary form only given, as follows. This paper will review the microwave areas in which semiconductor diodes of various types and transistors are currently being used. Included will be such areas as amplifiers, harmonic generators, switches, detectors and mixers, limiters and duplexers, attenuators and phase shifters. The extent of importance of contributions to the entire microwave field will be discussed."
"The equivalent circuit of a diode in a waveguide is difficult to determine because it is embeded in the circuit of supporting devices such as dielectric spacers and posts. The influence of these supporting devices can be eliminated by fabricating the diode directly in reduced height waveguide. Diodes in cartridges can also be made to approximate this situation."
"The authors had previously reported that the silver bonded germanium diode was suitable for a parametric amplifier and we have succeeded in parametric amplification at 11GC using this type of diode, and obtained a noise figure of 3.5 dB at room temperature."
"PIN diodes are useful in high power switching applications because their microwave impedance is essentially a controllable conductance in shunt with a nearly constant capacitance. The diodes are made by diffusing heavily doped N+ and P+ layers into a /spl pi/-type body. When reverse biased the R. F. impedance is determined by the /spl pi/-region capacitance in series with a small resistance. If a forward bias current is applied, the /spl pi/-region is progressively filled with carriers and the device becomes a conductance increasing to a maximum value of about 10 mhos . It is this high conductance which accounts for the high power rating of PIN diodes."
"This paper utilizes wideband matching theory to derive the maximum bandwidth capabilities of fast-acting, broadband multithrow diode switches, and filter techniques to closely realize them. Using these filter matching techniques, a 1:16 multithrow switch was constructed and evaluated. It achieves less than 1 db insertion loss, 1.3:1 input VSWR and 27 db isolation from dc to 750 mc which agrees closely with the theory. Switching times as small as 40 nsec have been observed. These results represent a significant advancement in the design of fast-acting diode multithrow switches."
"The parametric amplifier described has met several conditions which, to the writers knowledge, have not been realized heretofore in an integrated amplifier assembly suitable for system application."
"The development of microwave microcircuit utilizing uncased semiconductor chips and thin films promises a revolution in the design and construction of microwave circuits. The more intimate contact between the semiconductor device and circuit, without constraints of the package, will allow the attainment of device performance never before achieved. The construction of rf circuitry in a standardized micromodule form will allow rf circuitry to be compatible with standard microelectronic packaging techniques and similar in cost to low frequency circuits."
"A general discussion of harmonic generation, mixing and detection through use of parametric or tunnel diodes is given. The efficiency, noise factor and sensitivity of such devices are presented. In particular, the circuit design and its associated diode fabrication, together with recent experimental results at millimeter wave frequencies are described. Based on be general considerations, similar experimental results can be anticipated in the submillimeter wave region."
"This paper is concerned with analytical and experimental results for pumped tunnel diode frequency converters with idlers. The notation used in analyzing pumped varactors is appropriate for this analysis since idling circuits are utilized in conjunction with a pump or local oscillator. Pumped tunnel diode converters with idlers do not perform circuit functions that could not conceivably be performed by pumped varactor circuits with idlers. Tunnel diode converters with idlers are capable of performing similar circuit functions with simpler circuitry (being a pumped conductance device) and with considerable savings in pump power. An experimental tunnel diode converter with idler has been operated in the 2000 Mc region to obtain total power gains greater than 30 db with a pump power requirement of 100 microwatt. Comparable varactor converters would require at least an order of magnitude more pump power."
"Two tunnel diodes amplifiers were built, one covering 2-3 kmc and the other 3-4 kmc. In each case, the limit on bandwidth was the frequency band of the circulator used with the amplifier. As shown in the photograph below, the amplifiers were combined in a diplexing circuit to make a single two-port amplifier with better than I2 db gain over the octave 2-4 kmc."
"In a harmonic generator, the following principles constitute desirable design criteria: 1 ) Provide an impedance match at the input; 2) provide an impedance match at the output; 3) prevent the output from reaching the generator; 4) prevent the input from reaching the load; 5) prevent other harmonic currents from flowing except in reactive idler terminations; and 6) operate the diode at the optimum point on its capacitance-voltage characteristic."
"It is possible to derive a very general expression for the voltage wave emergent from one part of a multiport microwave junction, which itself contains sources, and to the arms of which are connected general microwave two-ports themselves terminated by active sources. This expression may be specialized to a class of microwave radiometers, consisting of a three-port junction, to the arms of which are connected, through general microwave two-ports used for measurement, respectively a microwave source to be measured, a standard source in terms of which the measurement is made, and a receiver. The analysis is sufficiently complete to identify clearly many conditions which bear on the accuracy of measurement of the unknown source, and to quantitatively evaluate them, or to keep them below some tolerable contribution."
"A new radio frequency rotary joint with high-power capability which lends itself to stacking for multichannel service has been developed. Many present designs are either limited in power handling capability, or are plagued with electrical resonance, and higher order waveguide mode problems."
"The planar Fabry-Perot resonator is a well-known device, both in the optical region and at millimeter wavelengths. Culshaw has demonstrated the excellent performance that may be obtained in the millimeter wavelength band and has indicated that such resonators would be very attractive at even shorter wavelengths. Several years ago one of the authors proposed a focused Fabry-Perot resonator in which the plate would be spherical in shape and would be located along constant phase contours in the field of a focused antenna. Attempts to operate such a device failed, probably due to the fact that the very high mechanical and control requirements were not met. Culshaw quite independently, has discussed a similar focused resonator, but apart from indicating that it might resonate, no estimated performance figures were given. More recently, he has published a detailed theoretical analysis of the planar resonator and has shown that it is exactly equivalent to the focused resonator. The authors have recently successfully operated a focused resonator, and the details of this work will be described in this paper."
"Electro-optic light modulation utilizing the Pockels effect in potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) or similar materials usually requires either a high modulating voltage or a long crystal structure depending upon the particular modulation technique utilized. An electro-optic interference filter modulator has been developed which operates at greatly reduced voltages and power having a compact structure and the potential of high modulation rates."
"Ferrites are used at frequencies between 100 Mc and 300,000 Mc in nonreciprocal attenuators (isolators), circulators, nonreciprocal phase shifters, power limiters, microwave switches, modulators, frequency multipliers, parametric amplifiers, sideband generators and variable attenuators and phase shifters. These applications fall into two categories: (1) unique functions such as those performed by the ferrite isolator and circulator where other types of devices are clearly inferior; (2) marginal functions such as the ferrite limiter or switch where a gas or semiconductor device would ordinarily provide superior performance. Ferrite devices of both categories have been improved recently. Those that perform the unique functions have been made to operate in new kinds of microwave systems or at higher power levels or at ultra-high frequencies or at millimeter wavelengths. Those that perform marginal functions have been adapted to work in specialized systems where they have provided higher power-handling capacity or longer lifetime or lower cost or smaller size or shorter recovery time or smaller insertion loss, but rarely more than one of these in each case."
"Circulator action can be obtained with a symmetrical 4-port H-plane waveguide junction containing a central composite post of ferrite and a conducting material, e.g. brass, and this paper gives some details of the experimental investigation which has led to completed devices in three frequency ranges, 3 Gc/s, 9 Gc/s and 20 Gc/s."
"This paper describes a traveling-wave-maser (TWM) system that obtains its magnetic field from a superconducting air-core solenoid. A photograph of the system is shown in Figure 1."
"The purpose of this investigation was to determine the technical feasibility and the attainable sensitivity of a \"self-stabilized\" oscillator-spectrometer system in terms of a generalized sample-carrying feedback element to replace the conventional spectrometer systems. This new \"self-stabilized\" oscillator-spectrometer has a microwave amplifier with a generalized network element in the positive feedback loop causing oscillation to occur at the network's central resonant frequency, with essentially instantaneous frequency stability. This eliminates the need for electronic frequency stabilizing equipment. With the paramagnetic test sample located in the H field of the generalized feedback element, the network's attenuation and phase characteristics are altered when paramagnetic resonance occurs. The resultant problem is to determine the effect this charge has on the oscillator's amplitude and frequency of oscillation. From this, the system's ultimate sensitivity is determined from a consideration of the noise within the oscillator loop."
"This paper attempts to illustrate the need for controlling phase shift introduced by components in large systems. The author will draw heavily on recent experience in the communication system field; specifically, the control of phase in the design of long haul microwave relays utilizing frequency modulation, such as the Telstar and Relay satellite systems."
"A survey of selected developments in microwave phase measurement techniques is presented. General characteristics such as precision, accuracy, and versatility are compared briefly. Particular attention is given to errors inherent in the different techniques. The general problem of loss of accuracy due to mismatches when a component is moved from one system to another is also treated.Some comments are made on problems associated with swept-frequency techniques."
"Recent significant developments in lasers will be discussed. Such new devices as the Raman and semiconductor laser will be described with a brief review of new techniques in the gas and crystalline types of devices. Work in non-linear optical effects will be reviewed with emphasis on the similarity in techniques between microwave and optical theory and experiment."
"This paper will discuss latest techniques for optical modulation and demodulation."
"Recent activity in the study of high frequency elastic waves (ultrasonic waves) has resulted in an expanded knowledge of the elastic properties of materials at high frequencies and in new types of ultrasonic devices utilizing these properties."
"Ultrasonic waves traveling in certain directions in piezoelectric semiconductors can be amplified by application of an electric field. The conditions for amplification are that the average drift velocity of the charge carriers exceed the velocity of sound and that the carriers travel in the same direction as the sound. Ultrasonic amplification has been observed in single crystal CdS, CdSe and ZnO from frequencies of 10mc/sec to over 1000 mc/sec. The gain is large enough (up to 0.3db per wavelength) to stimulate effort on devices like electrical amplifiers, long loss-less ultrasonic delay lines, etc., especially in the VHF, UHF region. Characteristics of ultrasonic amplifier devices, such as frequency limitations, power requirements, stability, and noise, will be discussed."
"The PTGMTT SYMPOSIUM DIGEST serves as a convenient, timely record of the disclosures of the most recent advances in the microwave art at the 1963 PTGMTT NATIONAL SYMPOSIUM."
"Presents general conference information of the PTGMTT National Symposium."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents an index of the institutions whose authors' papers are published in the conference."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Your Symposium Steering Committee and the Los Angeles, Santa Ana, and Orange-Belt Chapters of the IEEE Professional Technical Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques extend to you a cordial welcome."
"Condensed program, May 1963 PTGMTT National Symposium."
"The sensitivity of RADAR detection systems has increased about 35 db during each of the past two decades. Although there has been no specific indication that this sensitivity vs. time trend has leveled off, practical considerations of cost and complexity will undoubtedly influence this trend. The increases in sensitivity that have been achieved to date result from the use of larger antennas, higher powered transmitters, improved receivers and sophisticated data processing techniques. During the next decade electronically steered, multi-element array systems offer promise of providing additional increases in system sensitivity. These new systems, by the adaptive use of optimum scanning patterns and modulation waveforms, offer possibilities for more efficient utilization of power and time. The characteristics of several contemporary RADAR systems will be described."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"During the past four years these transactions have grown. We now have more issues, more articles, more letters, and more pages per year. In this growth we have not forsaken quality for quantity--the percentage of manuscripts rejected after review has also increased. Whether the present trend will continue in the future is doubtful. Certainly we cannot expect an indefinite number of original contributions on waveguide filters, parametric amplifiers, and ferrite devices. The theory and techniques in these areas are maturing. Gradually, new subjects and also new authors must take over the pages of future issues. At this time, when editor and editorial board are changed, it is well to look beyond the quantity and quality of our present publication at the basic factors shaping the future of our transactions."
"A 24-Gc traveling-wave tube of the type ECL-1180 /24W80 was used for generating nanosecond carrier pulses. The helix of the traveling-wave tube was modulated by a 40-Mc high voltage sine wave. Duration, power and carrier frequency shift of the output RF pulse were examined quantitatively with respect to the modulating voltage. It was found that the delay time of a traveling-wave tube has a large effect on the characteristics of the output pulse. The theory of transmission line modulators was developed to explain the pulse shaping mechanism in the traveling-wave tube. Observations of output pulses were made with three measuring devices, i.e., video-sampling oscilloscope with crystal detector, interferometer, and spectrum analyzer. The interferometer was found to be useful for measuring half-amplitude duration of carrier pulse. Output pulses with half-amplitude duration of as short as 1 nsec were observed."
"The diffraction loss of a new low-loss waveguide for millimeter and shorter wavelength, called the beam waveguide, was measured. The loss measurements were made using a resonator technique. The beam waveguide resonator derived from the beam waveguide consists of confocal paraboloids and is itself a very useful millimeter and sub-millimeter wave circuit component having already found application in some optical masers. Measurements made to determine the reflection loss of the resonator end plates also resulted in information on the loss of 90/spl deg/ bends in the beam waveguide. The results of the loss measurements made on the beam waveguide, in the frequency range near 9 Gc, are in good agreement with theoretical values given by Goubau."
"A homogeneous coupled line configuration realizing the characteristics of an all-pass network in the distributed network sense is useful for delay equalization in the UHF range. All-pass networks of first and second order are presented, while nth-order networks may be realized directly or built out of first- and second-order networks, analogous to the lumped-constant element network technique."
"A class of sharp cutoff filters using combinations of lumped constant and distributed constant reactance have been analyzed and a test made of one type. The filters are developed in accordance with image parameter theory and are m-derived. Both high-pass and low-pass types are analyzed. The improvements over previous sharp-cutoff image parameter filters are predictable band limits and more predictable response. The derivations hold for all frequencies and are not approximations good only for short lengths of distributed constant reactance. Also, this class of filters have much sharper cutoffs than can be obtained with an equivalent number of sections designed using modern network theory. Some of these filters have fairly flat response close to the sharp-cutoff and are useful as end-matching sections. Curves and design equations are presented for three types---two high-pass and one low-pass filter. A seven-section high-pass filter was designed and tested. Its cutoff rate was 87db in a 3 per cent bandwidth located in the 300-Mc region. The pass-band width was greater than 30 per cent."
"The problem of impedance matching between two waveguides filled with different dielectrics is discussed, and the conditions for broad-band matching are determined. Experimental results are presented for standard waveguides matched to guides filled with dielectrics having permittivities /spl epsi/ as high as 100/sub epsi0/. Present applications include matching devices for X-band coupled-cavity transmission masers which employ ruby and alumina sections (/spl epsi/ /spl ap/ 10/sub epsi0/) . Future applications include matching devices for masers utilizing rutile (/spl epsi/ as high as 250/spl epsi0/)."
"The radiation characteristics of a line source of magnetic current embedded in a homogeneous electron plasma of infinite extent are investigated for the case in which a uniform magnetic field is impressed externally throughout the medium in the direction of the source. The single-fluid theory of magnetohydrodynamics is employed. A very simple model is assumed for the plasma. Under this assumption, it is found that there are two modes of propagation of waves of small amplitude. By examining the behavior of these modes in the limiting cases of vanishing external magnetic field or infinite source frequency, they are identifiable as the modified forms of the usual plasma and optical modes which exist in an isotropic electron plasma. The dispersion relations for these two modes are discussed. The power radiated in each of the two modes is also evaluated. It is found that the power radiated in the optical mode is always lower than that due to the line source in free space, whereas the power radiated in the plasma mode is higher than that value for certain ranges of the source frequency."
"Design techniques and a simple empirical formula for the design of band rejection radial-line coaxial filters are presented. The appropriateness of these filters for parametric work is discussed and a particular structure employing these filters to provide a high performance harmonic filter structure for rectangular waveguide is presented."
"Periodic structures of conducting cylinders have been used as radiators (Yagi antennas), and, more recently, as slow-wave lines in traveling-wave tubes and masers. In this report it is shown that a nonresonant structure may have interesting capabilities as an open surface-wave transmission line. By means of a relatively simple matching network, efficient excitation of a surface wave on the periodic line is obtained. Response is flat over a 20 per cent frequency range at X band for several combinations of cylinder lengths and spacings. Total insertion losses are less than 3 db and largely independent of length of transmission line. Conducting cylinders are embedded in styrofoam. The effects of bends and twists in the line have also been investigated. It is shown experimentally that a guided wave on this periodic structure can follow a circular path having 1.5/spl lambda/ radius of curvature with very little loss. The plane of polarization can be rotated 90/spl deg/ by inserting a short twisted section. By terminating the transmission line with short circuits at both ends, a discrete series of transmission maxima is observed. Since these resonant peaks of transmission are of high Q factor, the dispersion characteristic of the line is obtained with very good accuracy. This type of open transmission line may offer advantages over heavy-weight and bulky conventional waveguides for some specialized applications."
"A practical method of designing wide-band parametric amplifiers operated with a circulator is described. For amplifiers with an initially series-tuned varactor, it is possible to find simple relations between Butterworth and Chebyshev responses of lowpass filters and desired gain responses of maximally flat or equalripple type. These relations are shown to hold for most practical varactors. For amplifiers with an initially series-tuned varactor, simple expressions for the limiting gain bandwidth product are given. It is also shown how filters should be chosen to give stable amplifiers."
"Scattering processes in semiconductors are often studied by observing scattering averages with measurements of various dc transport phenomena. With microwaves, the observation frequency can be of the order of the scattering frequency so that the corresponding microwave transport property may be complex. Thus, in studying detailed scattering mechanisms, a microwave transport experiment contains potentially more information than the analogous dc experiment. This paper discusses perturbation techniques which are useful in determining the microwave conductivity and low-field Hall effect of a bulk semiconductor contained in a waveguide from measurement of the properties of the transmitted wave."
"This paper determines the minimum insertion loss and the minimmn VSWR of a waveguide resonator constructed by spacing two, unequal, reactive, primarily-shunt, Iossy, reflecting elements approximately one-half-wavelength apart on a lossy transmission line. The requirement that the resonant loss be small, 10 db or less, limits the size of the loss parameters and permits an approximate solution of the problem within an error of the order of 1/Q/sub L/. These formulas can be expressed in terms of two \"coupling coefficients. \" Contrary to the familiar formulas derived from the low frequency analogue, however, these coupling coefficients depend, in general, on the parameters of both reflecting elements. Formulas for the loaded and unloaded Q of the resonator are derived. In general, it is not possible to determine the unloaded Q of the resonator from its loaded Q except by a limiting process. Within the order of the approximation involved, series losses cannot be distinguished from shunt losses. Accordingly they can be lumped together and one is led to the fact that a Iossy admittance inverter consists of a lossless admittance inverter surrounded on both sides by series losses. This is used to justify the application of the idea of \"predistortion\" to the design of narrow-band, Iossy, waveguide filters."
"The usual power loss method of evaluating the damping constant and Q of cavities and the attenuation constant of waveguides, as caused by finite wall conductivity, breaks down in the case of degenerate modes and fails to predict the coupling between degenerate modes. By means of variational formulations for the lossy case it is shown how the usual power loss method maybe generalized to treat the case when there are degenerate modes present. The generalized method turns out to be a particularly simple extension of the usual procedure."
"In his recent letter on the measurement of phase shift and attenuation of active two ports Alday has submitted material which the author believes should not remain unchallenged. His notion of the addition of power in his system is an erroneous one, so that what he claims to be a measure of attenuation is in fact a measure of a quantity which is not an attenuation at all. It is, as will be seen, a quantity which qualitatively follows the \"ups and downs\" of a peculiar attenuation."
"I wonder if any of your readers can help me to find out whether the method described below has ever been proposed in the literature to measure the output impedance of signal sources in the frequency range above 300 Mc. Although it is realized that this method is in close relationship with Chipman's method, to the author's best knowledge it has not been proposed for the measurement of active two-terminal impedances, i.e., signal generator output impedances in particular."
"The purpose of this communication is to report the design and development of a compact UHF multidiscriminator unit. This device offers possible new applications in the microwave systems. Fig. 1 shows the circuit of a single discriminator. A typical discriminator essentially consists of two capacity-loaded strip-line cavities. The strip-line configuration offers compactness and ease of fabrication. The center conductor of each cavity is a printed circuit strip. One side of the strip is connected to the RF circuit as in a conventional coaxial cavity. The other side of this strip is connected to a microwave diode such as a 1N833. One diode is tied to the discriminator output terminal, and the other diode is grounded to the cavity wall with positive polarities of the diodes jointed together by an RF choke (see Fig. 1). The tuning of each cavity is provided by a trimmer capacitor (such as the JFD piston type). Thus, the discriminator can be tuned over a wide range of frequencies simply by varying the capacitance of the trimmers."
"The long-line method herein described provides a rapid, simple, and fairly accurate measurement of resonant frequency and loaded bandwidth of a one-port cavity which is tightly coupled to its transmission line. Such tightly coupled cavities are often used as signal couplers in beam-type electron tubes. The cavity itself has a very high unloaded Q, and the beam loads the cavity to give a loaded Q approximately equal to the external Q (i. e., the beam is matched to the coupler's transmission line)."
"In an earlier issue of these transactions Brown and Clark brought an unpublished phenomenon into discussion with their correspondence, \"A Unique Solid-State Diplexer:\" When a ferromagnetic oxide with small linewidth (yttrium-iron garnet substituted with aluminium in their experiments) is applied to a Y-junction circulator at a frequency lying just below the ferromagnetic resonance then circulation takes place in the opposite sense to that for a frequency just above the resonance."
"Resonant slope (or resonant dielectric) amplifiers are of interest because of their high-input impedance and low-frequency capability. The desire for a resonant slope amplifier, and the ready availability of microwave components in the Boeing Applied Physics Laboratory, led to the development of such an amplitier using a microwave pump frequency."
"The 90/spl deg/ hybrid and the 180/spl deg/ TEM magic tee can, at least theoretically, be made to work over bandwidths of 10 to 1, and more. The device described is not limited to 90/spl deg/ or 180/spl deg/. It provides a phase shift between its outputs that is not only constant with frequency, but also capable of being set at any value. In addition, the ratio of the powers delivered to the outputs may be set as desired."
"The solution of many problems in microwave theory, particularly those relating to waveguides having curved boundary surfaces, is dependent upon a determination of the zeros of the Bessel function equation J/sub p/(x) N/sub p/(kx) - J/sub p/(kx) N/sub p/(x) = 0 where J/sub p/ and N/sub p/ are respectively the Bessel functions of the first and second kinds, of order p. In a majority of the cases arising in waveguide theory, the parameters k and p are real and positive, but may be fractional or integral."
"It is well-known that the efficiency of a two-arm waveguide junction (2-port) depends upon the reflection coefficient /spl Gamma//sub L/ of the load with which one of the arms is terminated. The efficiency is known to vary between the limits 0 and /spl eta//sub m/ (maximum efficiency) as /spl Gamma//sub L/ assumes all possible values within the unit circle. However, there seems to be no published analysis from which one can determine the particular /spl Gamma//sub L/ giving maximum efficiency if the characteristics of the waveguide junction are known."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current members."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the years 1953-1956."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"With our last issue, Donald D. King completed his service to our professional group as transactions editor for the past three years. However, Don is continuing to play an active role in the Group, as this year's Vice Chairman of the Administrative Committee."
"This paper describes the design and measured performance of an L-band model of a high-power wide-band low-pass waffle-iron filter. Three different waffle-iron filters with staggered stop bands are connected in series to give a combined stop band that extends from 2.2 Gc to 13.7 Gc. where the attenuation is 60 db or greater. The waffle-iron filter attenuates all propagating waveguide modes which can propagate at frequencies in the above stop band. In the pass band the waffle-iron filters are matched to full size L-band waveguide using quarter-wavelength stepped transformers. The pulsed power-handling capacity without breakdown is measured to be over 1.4 Mw peak power with air at atmospheric pressure filling the filter."
"An analysis is made of the operation of a 3 port Y-junction ferrite circulator wherein it is assumed that the ferrite cylinder can support the propagation of a bound surface wave. The incident wave guided by the air-dielectric interface of the ferrite cylinder is taken to be linearly polarized parallel to the ferrite axis and after incidence on the cylinder is assumed to divide and propagate in opposite directions about the cylinder as two linearly polarized signals. By appropriate selection of ferrite cylinder diameter, permeability, magnetizing field and saturation magnetization, constructive and destructive interference of the RF components are shown to occur at the two output ports. The conditions for reinforcement and null at the outputs are discussed and compared with published experimental data. It is possible to predict the occurrence of ferrite circulator diplexing reported by Brown and Clark although good quantitative comparison is lacking. The theoretical dependence of ferrite diameter upon free space wavelength is computed and compares satisfactorily with recorded experimental data. The experimental observations that greater circulator bandwidths are achievable when below resonance magnetizing fields are employed are shown to have a theoretical basis. In addition, interrelationships among the designed variables: saturation magnetization, applied magnetic field, ferrite resonance linewidth and circulator insertion loss are noted in the theoretical results."
"The advantages of using a particular dc forward bias in maintaining receiver sensitivity for fairly large reductions in local oscillator power are experimentally verified. Definite improvement of performance is obtained over broad band operation where L.O. power level may vary considerably. For each of the mixer diodes investigated there is a particular optimum bias for each diode type where both the input signal level and local oscillator RF impedances as well as the IF impedance are practically stationary with respect to very large changes in local oscillator power level. At optimum bias, signal frequency RF and IF impedances were found to vary by only about ten per cent for L.O. power reduced from 1 mw to 1 /spl mu/w. This results in considerably less reduction in tangential signal sensitivity over that obtained in the unbiased or overbiased condition."
"The phase, attenuation, and impedance characteristics of coaxial lines are discussed in some detail, stressing the improvements which can be obtained by removing conductor material that is not effective in the main part of the frequency interval for which the line is used. The ensuing attenuation is higher for the low frequencies but lower for the high frequencies, in comparison with the solid conductor line. The corresponding phase (that is, total phase minus the constant delay) is substantially more linear than for solid conductor lines in the frequency interval of interest. The real part of the characteristic impedance is more independent of frequency than for the solid conductor case. The reactive part of the characteristic impedance increases faster for low frequencies, but can be very nearly represented by a pure capacity, thus enabling a more ideal and simple line termination with lumped elements."
"Variable directional couplers can be constructed by placing a movable dielectric slab in the region of the coupling aperture. The coupling and directivity are a function of the position of the slab. For a two hole coupler, the change in coupling depends principally upon the variation of the field intensity at the coupling apertures. The directivity is solely a function of the difference in phase constants of the two waveguides. For a long, slot narrow wall coupler, the coupling is a function of both intensity and phase variation. Some applications of this device to microwave measurements are described."
"This paper discusses the construction of millimeter wave Fabry-Perot resonators, using both planar and spherical reflectors. It also discusses the equivalent circuits of planar reflectors and the method of obtaining efficient power transfer into the resonators."
"This communication describes a novel type of phase modulator based on the injection locking principle. The particular device described utilizes a klystron but the technique is not restricted to the microwave retion of the frequency spectrum. The technique may be applied to any oscillator that has a voltage tuning characteristic. The frequency of most oscillators is somewhat dependent on the voltages applied to various parts of the oscillator circuit and heretofore many techniques have been devised to overcome this effect. The injection locked phase modulator makes use of the voltage tuning effect which may be inherent or induced by inclusion of a voltage variable capacitor, or other device."
"There are situations in microwave resonance studies when the microwave power level must be kept very low in order not to seriously disturb the systems being studied. Electron spin resonance of many systerns at low temperature where saturation effects occur and cyclotron resonance of carriers at low temperatures when it is important not to heat the carrier systems appreciably, are two examples of such situations. Operation at these low power levels creates a demand for an increase in sensitivity of the detection system for the microwave spectrometer. Usually this is accomplished by employing a superheterodyne detection system in place of the more usual video detector. The complexity of such an arrangement led us to consider the possibility of using a reflex klystron to amplify the microwave bridge output signal prior to the video detector."
"In a recent paper an analysis of calorimeter error due to standing waves in the measured section of waveguide appeared in"
"In a recent paper on Fabry-Perot type resonators, Culshaw makes reference to a note of mine to the effect that one of the rather lengthy formulas (5 ) in my paper is incorrect. I should like to point out the errors as they appeared in our internal research report."
"This communication presents a calculation of the electromagnetic wave propagation constant /spl beta/ in a coaxial cavity partially loaded with ferrite and dielectric materials. The cavity was designed to operate around 600 Mc. The advantage of using a coaxial cavity compared to a rectangular cavity at 600 Mc is the fact that a coaxial cavity is much smaller than a rectangular cavity. Electronically tuned cavities have been built utilizing ferrite materials in the X-band frequeucy range. However, until recently no ferrite materials have been produced that could be used feasibly in the UHF frequency range. Tuning cavities with ferrites has certain advantages that some other electronically tuned cavities do not have with regard to power relations. For example, cavities have been built that are electronically tuned with the use of varactor diodes. These types of cavities cannot tolerate medium power levels, whereas, ferrite materials can withstand higher powers."
"In these transactions Shulman studied the conditions for maximum power transfer. It should be noted that in the Comptes rendus de l'Academie des Sciences (Paris, France, vol. 252, pp. 689-691; January 30, 1961) we studied this problem in the general case on the Smith Diagram. The method developed gave the solution of the problem directly, without any cut and try."
"It is known that reflex klystrons are usable as microwave detectors. When the repeller current was plotted against acceleration grid (which is anode) voltage, Koctienko, Deviatkov, and Lebed found discontinuities. Whitford did not find these discontinuities for the 726A reflex klystron. Koctienko, et al., explained that the discontinuities were attributed to the appearance and disappearance of the virtual cathode when the klystron began or stopped oscillation. Whitford explained that the beam current density of the 726A reflex klystron was sufficiently high to maintain the virtual cathode at all times."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Microwave Field and Network Techniques"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Direct-coupled resonator filters in transmission line are discussed. The resonators consist of sections of transmission line coupled either by series capacitances or shunt inductances. Over narrow frequency bands, such filters show characteristics similar to those of lumped-constant filters and their design is straightforward. The design of direct-coupled resonator filters over wide (as well as narrow) frequency bands is presented here using the quarter-wave transformer as a prototype circuit. Several numerical examples (with fractional bandwidths between 10 per cent and 85 per cent) are worked out to illustrate the method. It is shown that the response can be improved by optimizing the line impedances."
"The name \"intrinsic attenuation\" is suggested for the concept originally called \"intrinsic insertion loss\" and reasons for the proposed change are given. Formulas are given to permit calculation of this quantity, given the scattering coefficients of the network. The use of lossless tuners to obtain a bilaterally matched nonreflecting network is described, and the expected reduction in attenuation is discussed. A graph is presented for rapidly estimating this reduction in attenuation, given minimum information about the network. Experimental results for badly mismatched coaxial attenuators show that the losses in the tuners may in some cases prevent one from realizing any reduction in attenuation."
"Leaky-wave absorption filters have been found advantageous for the suppression of spurious energy of high-power transmitters. However, although there are experimental data of the properties of several specially constructed leaky-wave filters, there are apparently little data relating the effect upon the attenuation of the filters of varying one or more of the possible parameters of their design. In this paper a waveguide leaky-wave filter structure that retains the basic geometry of waveguide leaky-wave filters is analyzed theoretically over a finite frequency range. The complex propagation constant for the least-attenuated leaky-wave mode is obtained by reducing the fundamental integral equation to a transverse resonance equation and solving the reduced equation. The attenuation constant of the least-attenuated mode is obtained for values of 2a//spl lambda/ (i.e., the ratio of waveguide width to one half the freespace wavelength) ranging from 0 to 2. Its dependence on various design parameters of leaky-wave filters, such as main waveguide height, spacing of the coupling slots, width of coupling slots and height of the absorbing waveguides is presented. Good correspondence between theoretically computed curves and experimental data was obtained."
"Mathematical comments are made on a class of integral equations with complex symmetric kernels which occur in laser theory. It is pointed out that integral equations of this class do not have some of the well-known properties of integral equations with Hermitian kernels. In particular, the usual extrernal principle by which the eigenvalues of a Hermitian kernel may be estimated using the Rayleigh-Ritz procedure does not apply to integral equations with complex symmetric kernels. It is suggested that the use of variational techniques to calculate diffraction losses in laser interferometers leads to results of doubtful accuracy."
"When an em wave of fixed frequency is incident on the cylindrical positive column of a low-pressure arc discharge, nearly complete absorption occurs at a definite value of discharge current I/sub 0/ as the discharge current is varied. I/sub 0/ yields a plasma electron density which corresponds to the well-known cylindrical, or dipolar, plasma resonance frequency f/sub 0/. The ratio f/sub p/ / f/sub 0/ where f/sub p/ is the ordinary (plane) plasma frequency, has been determined by others using a quasi-static approach. In this paper a dynamic approach is used, and comparison is made with the quasi-static approach. Agreement is within 3 per cent for values of /spl beta//sub 0/a less than 0.25. For beta//sub 0/a equal to 0.60, the discrepancy in the quasi-static method is 15 per cent. Theoretical calculations as well as experimental evidence indicate that the electron sheath, which exists on the outside surface of the positive column, plays a significant role in the location of the dipolar plasma resonance. Application of the results of this paper improve the agreement between theory and experiment for the Plasma Microwave Coupler described by Steier and Kaufman."
"The electromagnetic waves propagating in arbitrarily magnetized homogeneous ferrites between two perfectly conducting parallel planes have been investigated by using the operational calculus method. The discrete propagation constants and the eigenvalues are to be determined from an algebraic equation of the fourth order and a determinantal equation derived from the boundary conditions. The hybrid modes thus found degenerate to the solutions already found for the particular cases of longitudinally and transversely (parallel and perpendicular to boundaries) magnetized ferrite cases."
"According to Manley-Rowe power relations the difference of pump and signal frequencies yields the so-called negative resistance parametric amplifier. In this case, infinite gain is possible in contrast to the sum frequency amplifier or up-converter which has a finite gain determined by the pump and signal frequencies."
"During a recent investigation of antennas mounted flush with the earth, it was necessary to measure the dielectric properties of soil. Many different techniques for the measurement of dielectric constants and loss tangent have been developed. These techniques generally fall into two categories: those which utilize transmission through a sample and those which use the reflection from the sample. The particular technique employed is modified to suit the range of parameters being measured and the physical characteristics of the sample. In general, a measurement that provides an accurate determination of dielectric constant is relatively insensitive to variations in loss tangent and vice versa. The technique described here utilizes both types of measurements to find in a practical manner the dielectric constant and loss tangent of relatively moist loamy soil at microwave frequencies."
"It has been shown that reflex klystrons are usable for microwave and millimeter wave amplification. The purpose of this communication is to report that a VA-99 fixed-cavity reflex klystron performed well as a negative-resistance amplifier in the \"difficult\" millimeter wave region and that the amplifier was operated not by loading it so that it was incapable of oscillation as has been previously reported,but by adjusting voltages and impedances so that it was on the edge of a mode of oscillation. All measurements were made using the setup shown in Fig. 1. In the amplifier section, the reflex klystron was connected to the main waveguide line with an H-plane tee with an EH tuner, each at the input and output end of the colinear arm of the H-plane tee. The repeller and anode voltages, and the circuit impedance were adjusted so that the oscillation stopped at the signal frequency."
"The input impedance Z/sub A/ and the terminating impedance Z/sub L/ of a symmetrical lossless four-terminal network are related by an equation which contains only one additional parameter; namely, the input impedance Z/sub 1/ when the network is terminated in any known resistance R/sub 0/. Let /Spl Gamma//sub A/= (Z/sub A/- R/sub 0/)/ (Z/sub A/+R/sub 0/), /Spl Gamma//sub L/=(Z/sub L/-R/sub 0/)/(Z/sub L/+R/sub 0/), /Spl Gamma//sub 1/ = ( Z/sub 1/ - R/sub 0/)/( Z/sub 1/+R/sub 0/), and the superscript \"*\" denote the conjugate. Now [equation] Eq. (1) also relates the voltage reflection coefficients for a lossless two-port junction. This equation provides a basis for a graphical procedure for finding Z/sub A/ or Z/sub L/ when the other is known."
"Basic formulas for the group delay and for the dissipation loss are derived for transmission-line filters. The optimum number of resonators for minimum dissipation loss is found."
"The symmetrical ferrite junction circulator has assumed a position of prominence in recent years due to its small physical size and excellent electrical characteristics. The device was described theoretically by Auld, and other investigators have contributed to the design of improved electrical characteristics. Due to their low loss, these circulators have found wide use with parametric and tunnel diode amplifiers. Other applications include duplexers, multiplexer and load isolators."
"In the design of harmonic generators using varactors in waveguide mounts, one of the most important problems is to determine the impedance seen from the terminals of the nonlinear junction capacitance, as well as the transfer properties of the networks between the terminals of this capacitance and the output and input waveguides. Since the junction region in most cases of interest is many times smaller than one wavelength in size, the logical variables for describing the electrical conditions at the junction terminals are voltage and current. On the other hand, at the input and output waveguide ports, scattering variables a and b would be preferable. This communication will define a parameter system for two ports, where voltage and current are used as variables on one side, and scattering variables on the other. A method for experimental determination of these parameters will also be outlined."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Experimental data are given on the effect of elevated temperature on the dielectric properties of ferrites intended for microwave applications. Measurements were made at X band. The real part of the dielectric constant generally increases slowly with temperature, the maximum temperature coefficient observed being 300 parts per million per degree C. The dielectric loss tangent also generally increases with temperature. Measurements were made in a rectangular waveguide cavity, using a modified perturbation technique. It is shown that the simple perturbation technique may cause an appreciable error in the measurement of the real part of the dielectric constant. The effect of the finite resistivity of the cavity walls and the effect of the cavity irises on the measurement of the dielectric loss tangent, are also considered."
"An exact synthesis procedure is derived for a class of asymmetric multielement coupled-transmission-line directional couplers with any number of elements. It is based on the equivalence between the theory of the directional coupler and that of a stepped quarter-wavelength filter. This can be treated using Richards' theorem for the synthesis of transmission-line distributed networks, as described previously by Riblet. The method is extended to give a general expression for the input reflection coefficient of the stepped filter, which corresponds to the voltage coupling of the directional coupler. Explicit formulas for the parameters of two, three, four and five couplers are derived and the extension to larger number of elements is straightforward. Two and three element couplers have been designed on this theoretical basis, and show excellent agreement with theory, for example a three element coupler of 20 db /spl plusmn/ 0.5 db over a 6:1 bandwidth, and a two element coupler of 3.2 db /spl plusmn/ 0.85 db over a 6.7:1 bandwidth. It is possible to design a 3-db /spl plusmn/ 0.43 db-coupler for decade bandwidths using only four elements. The 3 db-couplers may be used as 90/spl deg/ hybrids by careful choice of reference planes in the output parts."
"A perfectly conducting plane screen embedded in a gyrotropic medium is shown to be able to support a unidirectional surface wave. Such a surface wave is assumed to be incident on the top of a semi-infinite screen. At the edge the incident power is converted partly into a reflected surface wave which travels on the bottom of the screen and partly into a space wave. The angular distribution of the radiated energy as well as the power-reflection and the power-transmission coefficients are evaluated. Total reflection is shown to occur for a certain band of frequencies."
"The attenuation constant /spl alpha/ of the lunar line and that of the T-septate lunar line were derived from the average power loss W/sub L/ and the average power transfer W/sub T/ in each line, that is the ratio, W/sub L//2W/sub T/. The average power loss and the average power transfer for the lunar line and for the T-septate lunar line were derived from their respective field functions. The theoretical attenuation constant of a typical lunar line is less than 0.7 db/ 100 ft for frequencies greater than 2000 Mc. The theoretical attenuation constant of a typical T-septate line is less than 0.9 db/ 100 f t for frequencies greater than 1000 Mc. Experimental measurements of the attenuation constant of a T-septate lunar line agree with the theoretical value. In the 200 to 2000 Mc frequency band, the lunar line and the T-septate lunar line offer a compact and light package without an appreciable sacrifice in peak power handling capacity or attenuation."
"A brief description is given on the operation of a microwave ruby maser in which the pump signal is the optical emission of a ruby laser. For operation in the millimeter spectrum the application of a magnetic field of inordinately high intensity can produce Zeeman splitting of the Cr/sup 3+/ levels at millimeter wave energy in the ground state in ruby. To obtain population inversion by optical pumping on the levels requires that the ratio of maser frequency to temperature be v/sub ij/ / T <14.4 Gc/sec /spl deg/K. As the maser temperature is increased the spin lattice relaxation time T/sub 1/ decreases in addition to possibly decreasing with increasing magnetic field. Since the power required from the laser is estimated as that required to produce saturation of the optical pump transition in a time less thanT/sub 1/, then decreasing T/sub 1/ also requires increased laser emission. A broadening of the laser emission has been observed at increased power so that the limit on useful laser power can be given in terms of the absorption line width of the maser optical pumping transition. Treating these various effects conservatively indicates that the laser-pumped ruby maser can be operated over the entire millimeter spectrum, however. The design of an apparatus with a hard superconductor electromagnet producing the field intensity required to accomplish this objective is given."
"A new type of parallel-coupled TEM-mode cross section is described and named the re-entrant cross section. An analysis of the even- and odd-mode characteristic impedances of the re-entrant cross section shows it to have advantages in the case of tight coupling when compared to previously used parallel-strip cross sections. Close tolerances are easily held, and considerable misalignment is permissible. Two single-section 3-db couplers were tested with coupling curves very close to theoretical, and with good directivity. Then a three-section coupler having a re-entrant center section was designed for the 400- to 2000-Mc band, yielding a coupling variation less than 0.4 db and a minimum directivity of 29 db. Next a three-section coupler was designed for the 1- to 5-Gc band. A series of modifications resulted in a final model having a coupling variation within 0.5 db, and a minimum directivity of about 22 db."
"The relation between the quality factor Q and the attenuation constant /spl alpha/ of a transmission line has been known as follows: /spl alpha/ = /spl beta/ / /2Q where /spl beta/ is the phase constant. Recently from the following relation of propagation constant at resonance /spl Gamma/(/spl omega//sub 0/) + /spl part//spl Gamma/ / /spl part//spl omega/ /spl Delta//spl omega//spl cong/ i/spl beta/(/spl omega//sub 0/), where /spl Gamma/(/spl omega//sub 0/) = /spl alpha/(/spl omega//sub 0/) + i/spl beta/(/spl omega//sub 0/). Yeh derived a general relation between Q and /spl alpha/, namely, /spl alpha/ = /spl upsi//sub p/ / /spl upsi//sub g/ /spl beta/ / /2Q where /spl upsi//sub p/, and /spl upsi//sub g/ are the phase velocity and group velocity of the wave respectively. This general relation can be derived very simply from the generally accepted definition of /spl alpha/ and Q."
"A varactor frequency-modulated microwave cavity is described where the application of a periodic square wave voltage to a varactor serves to electronically detune the cavity. There results a discriminator characteristic which makes the device applicable as an AFC reference. Experimental results are given and discussed."
"By using a nonlinear rather than a linear stabilizing resistor in tunnel-diode oscillator and amplifier circuits, the dc power dissipation in the resistor may be reduced by a factor of 3 for typical germanium tunnel diodes, and by a factor of 6 for typical gallium arsenide tunnel diodes. At the same time ac loading by the resistor is reduced. Such nonlinear stabilizing resistors may consist of reverse- or forward-biased heavily doped pn junctions."
"The geometry of the screened dielectric rod waveguide is shown in Fig. 1. The theory for this waveguide has been solved by Beam and Wachowski for the case of /spl mu//sub 1/= /spl mu//sub 2/ = 1."
"A detector or receiver may be used in conjunction with a directional coupler and a calibrated variable short to measure its own impedance. The observed VSWR as the short is adjusted is the VSWR of the detector if the coupling is light. Various minor corrections are described."
"Professor P. Penfield has kindly brought to our notice his paper on lossless three-ports, which independently covers some of the work described by us. He has pointed out that for circulator synthesis from a three-port junction only one of the three conditions of equation (16) or (17) need be specified. This can be seen from the first two equations of (9) of our paper. Otherwise our classifications of three-port networks are the same."
"A sketch of a novel broad-band microwave discriminator is shown in Fig. 1. The device utilizes a pair of symmetric 3-db hybrids joined by unequal lengths of transmission line. The difference between line lengths is represented as a frequency dependent phase difference /spl phi/."
"Coale analyzed the single resonator strip-line traveling-wave filter shown in Fig. 1 by a perturbation method. Design criteria were formulated relating loaded Q to pertinent circuit parameters. Experimentally it is observed that properly aligned filters exhibit a frequency response which is approximately Butterworth. The purpose of this communication is to show that the approximate frequency response of narrow band-width filters in the absence of dissipation and resonator discontinuities is theoretically Butterworth. Comments on the design problem are included as well as a discussion of the effects of resonator discontinuities."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A considerable number of the papers and correspondence items published in this issue were presented at the Millimeter and Submillimeter Conference held January 7-10, 1963, at Orlando, Fla."
"The aim of this survey is to discuss the basic problems encountered in the general areas of generation, transmission, and detection of millimeter waves. Representative examples of work in these three areas since 1959 are reviewed with respect to the methods and techniques employed to circumvent present limitations and extend the frontier into the submillimeter range. Subject classifications include classical and quantum electronics, harmonic generation optical frequency pumping and mixing, waveguide and optical transmission systems, resonators, and detectors. At the end of each section, a few critical evaluation remarks are made on the work in progress and the prospects of success in the near future. A fairly comprehensive list of some 157 references dating from 1959 is listed by year and subject title. While substantial progress has been made, especially in technology, in the last few years, the submillimeter wave problem appears as formidable as ever and no breakthrough idea has yet been recognized."
"The accelerator described here is an eight-orbit four-sector racetrack microtron possessing strong focusing action. The magnet gap is only 7mm, and the accelerating cavity is placed in one of the field-free regions. The energy gain per traversal of the cavity can be varied from 0.4 to 1.5 Mev and synchronism obtained by adjustment of the magnetic field strength and the length of the main straight section. A theoretical analysis of the synchrotrons oscillations in energy and phase shows that tight bunching can be achieved at almost any point in any desired orbit by changing the frequency of the synchrotrons oscillations. This can be accomplished by varying the RF power and therefore the accelerating voltage. One particularly attractive operating region gives tight bunching in the third orbit, allowing the construction of a compact machine if desired. For the RF accelerating source used (frequency 2800 Mc) one obtains 20 per cent of the third orbit current in a bunch length of 0.1 mm using dc gun injection (no prebunching). A current of 20 ma was obtained in the third orbit (2.2 Mev) which should be sufficient for the production of milliwatt power in the submillimeter region."
"A new waveguide for the low-loss transmission of millimeter waves is presented. The guide consists of two parallel conducting walls with grooves in the central region of the guide cross section. The grooves run along the guide in the direction of the wave propagation. It is shown that the waveguide, if excited in the TE-wave mode, has properties similar to those of the H guide, which contains a dielectric slab between the conducting walls in the center. The new guide is characterized by an exponential transverse decrease of the field distributions in direction from the center and by low attenuation. Theoretical considerations dealing with the field distribution and the data of the guide are presented."
"The use of millimeter wavelengths for earth-satellite transmissions is suggested by the large bandwidths and high gain with small antennas possible at these wavelengths. The factors discussed are 1) propagation path loss, 2) refraction, and 3) antenna temperature. The attenuation through the entire atmosphere over the millimeter spectrum is given as a function of elevation angle of the antenna beam. The attenuation and scattering loss due to water and ice particles varies over a wide range of values depending on the number of particles and their sizes. Refraction by the atmosphere is less than one milliradian for elevation angles for which the absorption is low enough to make the transmission practical. Fluctuations due to refraction may, however, be quite severe. Contribution to antenna temperatures from the atmosphere, the earth, the sun and moon are given for earth-based antennas and antennas in space."
"A numerical analysis and an experimental study of Cerenkov radiation from an anisotropic ferrite are reported in this paper. Extensive curves of the interaction resistance R/spl lambda/, measured per unit wavelength of interaction distance, are presented as functions of the several ferrite and geometric parameters. Values in excess of 10/sup 3/ ohms per wavelength of interaction distance are noted. The conditions for Cerenkov radiation in the ferrite are derived from consideration of plane-wave propagation through the ferrite. X-band output powers of approximately one watt were observed using a 0.88 Mev bunched electron-beam with a peak current of 18 ma."
"The coherence properties of a deflection modulated electron beam are studied for harmonic generation of electromagnetic energy in the low millimeter and possibly submillimeter wave-length region of the spectrum. A fourth-harmonic, beam-coupling experiment, at 36 Gc using a Fabry-Perot type coupler, is described. Based on these results, a proposal is presented for a beam-coupling circuit whose transverse dimensions can be made physically large compared to the free-space wavelength."
"When a quantum mechanical system interacts with a radiation field it may do so by multiple as well as single quantum processes. These multiple quantum processes give rise to nonlinear effects such as harmonic generation and parametric amplification and oscillation. The density matrix formulation is used to describe these multiple quantum processes. Two- and three-level systems are considered as forms of harmonic generators and some of the desired properties of the materials to be used are described. Two methods of generating submillimeter radiation starting with optical signals are also discussed."
"In the 3-mm region (94 Gc) it is desirable to use waveguide components operating in the low loss TE/sub 01/ mode in circular waveguide rather than in fundamental-mode rectangular waveguide. Because this is a higher mode, mode purity is of major concern. A method of identifying undesired modes and their amplitudes is by means of radiation patterns from the end of the waveguide. Components developed to operate in this mode include a transition from rectangular to circular waveguide, standing wave detector, variable attenuator, directional coupler, flexible waveguide, fixed 90/spl deg/ bend and rotary joint."
"A variety of components have been made in wave-guides RG136 and RG139 by techniques which include the use of extruded waveguide, copper-gold eutectic bonding, precision milling and, in particular, of electroforming. Performances of several RG136 components are given, together with the loss in RG139 waveguide and in oversized guide tapered from RG139. Ferrite devices, including isolators, 3 port switches and amplitude modulators, using Ferramic R1, have been quite successful. A typical isolator has an insertion loss of 1 1/4 db and an isolation of 30 db, magnetically tunable over at least 133 to 145 Gc. An RG136 slotted line, at a coupling ratio of 20 db, has an inherent mismatch of 1.05 with good reproducibility over the 2 1/2 wavelengths traverse of the one-mil Wollaston wire probe. The main waveguide is milled and broached from brass and gold plated. Electroformed matched hybrid tees in RG136 split power to /spl plusmn/ 1/4 db, have a discrimination of 30 db, a loss of 1 1/4 db and a match looking into any arm of better than 1.4. Rotary and flap-type attenuators, phase shifters, variable short circuits, matching units, crystal diodes and their mounts, bolometers and dry calorimeters, etc., have been made, and for transmission over moderate distances the vastly overmoded TE/sub 01/ waveguide was used."
"Components such as directional couplers, attenuators, introduction and phase shifters have been developed using optical techniques in oversize rectangular waveguide. These components were designed for operation in the 300- to 350-Gc range. They were scaled from a design that was successful at 27 Gc. Preliminary data taken at 330 Gc indicates the feasibility of this technique. The advantages of oversize waveguide as compared with conventional waveguide and freespace optical components are 1) lower attenuation and 2) simpler construction."
"Ferrimagnetic resonance isolators operating over waveguide bandwidths have been developed in K, V and Q bands using hexagonal ferrites. Preliminary results on similar isolators operating in M and W bands have also been obtained. The materials employed in these isolators are highly anisotropic uniaxial hexagonal compounds. The compounds of interest for the first three frequency bands are from the Ni/sub 2/W family. The anisotropy field of Ni/sub 2/W is 12.6 kilo-oersteds (Koe). This uniaxial anisotropy field can be controlled over the range of 4 to 12.6 Koe by producing solid solutions of the above compound with that of Zn/sub 2/W and/or Co/sub 2/W, and controlled over the range of 12.6-19.0 Koe by aluminum substitutions. The following operating characteristics have been obtained over the full waveguide bands: K band (18-26.5 Gc), isolation (minimum)---25 db, insertion loss (maximum)---0.7 db, VSWR (maximum)--- 1.15, applied field---1000 oersteds, length---4 1/2 inches weight---6 1/2 ounces; v band (26.5-40 Gc), isolation (minimum)---25 db, insertion loss (maximum)---1.25 db, VSWR (maximum)---1.15, applied field---1000 oersteds, length---4 inches, weight---6 ounces; Q band (33-50 Gc), isolation (minimum)---25 db, insertion loss (maximum) ---1.5 db, VSWR (maximum)---1.15, applied field---1000 oersteds, length---3 1/2 inches, weight---5 1/2 ounces. Improved attenuation ratios and size are obtained when the band-width is reduced. Examples of this are K band where a ratio of 40 to 1 is maintained over a 4-Gc bandwidth in a 3-inch unit, and V band where a ratio of 40 to 1 is maintained over a 5-Gc bandwidth in a 2-inch unit. At the present time the M (50-75 Gc) and W (75-110 Gc) band units provide attenuation ratios exceeding 10 to 1 over 5-Gc bandwidths."
"Backward diodes (low peak current tunnel diodes) suitable for small-signal detection applications in the millimeter-wave region have been fabricated from n-type germanium. The diodes have the dimensions and geometry of point-contact diodes. For millimeter-wave signal levels below about - 20 dbm, the current sensitivity of these units is an order of magnitude greater than that of selected existing diodes for this frequency range. When employed as millimeter-wave frequency converters, the minimum conversion loss is comparable to that of conventional diodes, but the beating oscillator power requirements may be somewhat reduced. The diode noise factor at megacycle IF frequencies is comparable to that of conventional units, and in the low audio IF range it is expected to be markedly decreased. The fabrication of these diodes is described and their initial performance at selected frequencies from 11 Gc to 300 Gc is discussed."
"Fabry-Perot Interferometers (FPI's) have been constructed for the far infrared and submillimeter wave region with metal grids as reflectors. Two-dimensional grids with square holes (metallic mesh) can be used for unpolarized radiation, too, and they are more convenient for the construction than one-dimensional (parallel wire) grids. The performance of several FPI's has been measured in the 100-600 /spl mu/ wavelength region. Q values in first-order range from 5 to 30, and peak transmissions up to 0.9 have been reached. The experimental results are in qualitative agreement with the theory of thin parallel wire gratings. The influence of the unevenness of the reflectors is studied theoretically. Applications of a submillimeter FPI include its use as the dispersion element in a spectrometer, as a narrow-band filter to check the radiation purity of a grating spectrometer, and as a separator of the harmonics from a crystal harmonic generator."
"An experimental investigation of the Fabry-Perot interfometer (FPS) using spherical mirrors is reported. The FPS was operated as a microwave resonant cavity at 60 to 70 Gc. Measurements were made of the loss and coupling as a function of mirror spacing. The electric field variation within the resonator was also measured. Other characteristics of the spherical Fabry-Perot resonator were observed and are discussed. A qualitative discussion of the behavior of a spheroidal cavity resonator is presented and its relation to the FPS and beam waveguide is demonstrated."
"An approach to the problem of submillimeter wave measurement through the extension of microwave techniques has led to the development of a submillimeter bolometer with the sensitivity requisite to calibration with a thermal source. The sensor employs conventional components, horn, waveguide and coaxial line, with a novel coax-to-guide transition consisting of part of the bolometer element, the rest of which serves as a center conductor of the coaxial lines. The entire set of submillimeter components is contained in a 1/4-inch block of metal. Fundamental problems of detection in this band are discussed with application to the sensor. Calibration techniques and data taken with the instrument are reported."
"A measurement system for use in the submillimeter wavelength region has been assembled and evaluated. This system utilizes two 70-Gc klystron sources and operates as high as the sixth harmonic. One of these sources provides the fundamental input power for a crystal harmonic generator which serves as the transmitter. The other klystron serves as a fundamental local oscillator for the harmonic mixing receiver. Incorporation of harmonic mixing techniques provides identification and selection of individual harmonics and simultaneously affords improved sensitivity over crystal video detection. The dynamic range of the measurement system is here defined as the difference (in db) between the maximum signal level at a specified harmonic, and that level for which the signal-to-noise ratio is unity. Dynamic ranges were measured to be 61 db at 210 Gc, 46 db at 280 Gc, 32 db at 350 Gc, and 29 db at 420 Gc, selection of any of these frequencies is accomplished by inserting an appropriate filter in the receiver's IF amplifier. Techniques are described which can be used to improve substantially the dynamic range at the above-mentioned frequencies. The system is suitable for many types of measurements in the short millimeter and the submillimeter region, and has good possibilities for frequency extension by increasing the frequency of the fundamental signal. Some data are included on measured transmission losses of dominant mode, and oversized, overmoded waveguide. The latter type is seen to offer advantages of reasonably low loss and simple construction when transmission over moderate path lengths is needed."
"An interference modulation technique for microwave radiometry is described. Use of the technique is considered for the development of a radiometer for tuning over a wide range of frequencies, a radiometric device for determining the absolute sensitivity of detectors over a wide range of frequencies, and a means for determining the power level of coherent sources as a function of frequency. A device using this technique does not require the use of a coherent source, and the technique is applicable to wavelengths well into the low millimeter region. A tunable radiometer using interference modulation has been operated as a measurements system within the 50-90 Gc region. Successful performance required the use of a sensitive detector which consisted of a barretter operated in an evacuated atmosphere. A noise source having known temperature was used as the source of microwaves for determining the sensitivity of detectors as a function of frequency. It has been found that the sensitivity of barretters is greatly improved by a reduction in air pressure and that, when evacuated, a commercially available barretter will provide a sensitivity of approximately 6 x 10/sup -11/ watts for an audio bandwidth of one cycle per second. The technique discussed provides the opportunity for developing a calibrated power meter for millimicrowatt levels from coherent sources."
"In this paper four different millimeter wave equipments, which have been made for plasma diagnostic work, are described. They are: 1) A straightforward 70-Gc superheterodyne radiometer with an over-all noise factor of 13 db; 2) An early 140-Gc radiometer, with second harmonic mixing, which has an over-all noise factor of about 25 db; 3) A later and more sensitive 140-Gc radiometer which contains a fundamental local oscillator, VX 3352 mixer crystals and a 408-Mc IF amplifier commencing with an Adler tube; 4) A very simple 140-Gc transmission measuring equipment containing a 1-watt source and a crystal video receiver which has a tangential sensitivity of ---42 dbm. The last part of this paper discusses the minimum temperature changes which can be detected, at short millimeter wavelengths, with various types of superheterodyne radiometers, the Golay cell, the barretter, the crystal video radiometer, the 1.5/spl deg/K carbon bolometer and the 1.5/spl deg/K InSb photoconductive detector. The performances expected from straight traveling-wave tube radiometers and traveling-wave masers at short millimeter wavelengths are also considered. The Appendices are devoted to mixer crystal performance in the millimeter and submillimeter regions, a theory of second harmonic mixing and the voltage sensitivity of a forward biased detector crystal."
"This analysis shows the order of magnitude of the highest frequency and power to be expected from a single tunnel diode generator. An optimization on the circuit level indicates how to make the best use of a given device. The influence of the dimensions and the geometry is considered and relates the performances of the circuit with bulk and junction properties of the semiconductor. On the basis of empirical data, a correlation between bulk and junction properties is established and relates all of them to the doping level and the basic semiconductor used. Numerical data show the physical limitations to be expected with germanium and gallium-arsenide in with two idealized cavity geometries. As dimensions cannot be arbitrarily reduced, nor the impedance be arbitrarily low, they introduce other limitations which prevent in some cases the possibility of optimum performances and show comparable merits of the two geometries. It is concluded that a power output of 5 mw at 30 kMc for a GaAs tunnel diode generator is an optimistic figure close to the technical limit."
"An active microwave frequency modulator is described which has been devised for a retrodirective space array. In this modulator one tunnel diode simultaneously functions as amplifier, frequency translator, and frequency modulator. The modulator is an image frequency converter with a local oscillator signal injected into the modulator circuit. The frequency of the image signal is modulated by varying the frequency of the local oscillator. The image frequency is the difference between the second harmonic of the local oscillator and the signal frequency. The frequency deviation of the image frequency signal is twice the frequency deviation of the local oscillator signal. Since the image frequency signal is the lower modulation side-band, its phase is inverted in reference to the phase of the incoming signal. The retrodirective characteristic of the modulated space antenna is realized by the phase inversion property of the modulator. Each array element is terminated with one modulator, and the local oscillator signals that are directed to the modulators must be of equal phase. No nonreciprocal device is required to separate incoming and reradiated signals in the antenna array. In order to determine the optimum operating conditions the analysis of the image frequency converter was derived and an experimental model was tested at 2 Gc. Amplification of the image frequency signal over the incoming signal of 27 db was obtained. The local oscillator power required by one modulator is 10 /spl mu/w; the dc bias power is less than 100 /spl mu/w."
"A variety of approaches to the design of flanges for millimeter waveguide use coupled with the research nature of the work in this field has made standardization a difficult rask. Shortly after World War II, cover flange designs similar to the UG 385/U shown in Fig. 1 were designed (U. S. Army Air Force at Watson Laboratories). This flange design was intended to provide intimate contact across the important broadwalls of the waveguide and precise alignment of the interior sections of the waveguide by the alignment pins. Also, by means of an \"O\" ring groove provided around the round section, pressurization of these flanges is possible. Thus, with an asexual flange design, the problem of male or female flanges was eliminated and it appeared that a universal design was at hand."
"A transmission line for the interconnection of systems was required for frequencies above 100 Gc. This requirement is different from the point-to-point propagation. For this particular application the transmission line should have low attenuation, reasonable manufacturing cost, simplicity in component construction and system adaptability."
"Mode transducers are used in microwave transmission systems to transform a certain mode of one waveguide into a predetermined mode of another waveguide. Of particular importance is the transformation from the rectangular TE/sub 10/ mode to the circular TE/sub 01/ mode because the circular mode has a low transmission loss and is frequently used where long waveguide runs are necessary."
"The generation of optical radiation from a diffraction grating has been described by Smith and Purcell and by Salisbury. This communication will report a set of improvements on their method which can lead to coherent radiation. Simple calculations have been performed for two special cases to obtain estimates of the output power available. It appears that such a device could give powers from a microwatt to 0.2 mw in the region of 0.1 to 0.5 mm wavelength. Output power levels of this order are entirely adequate for experiments in high resolution spectroscopy and related problems."
"In the course of a series of tests on a harmonic generator which multiplied a 10-Gc fundamental to frequencies as high as 700 Gc (0.4 mm wavelength), it was necessary to separate and identify the various harmonics that were generated simultaneously. A device to serve the function of a filter was required. High accuracy of wavelength measurement was not essential since the fundamental frequency was known to one part in 10/sup 4/. It was necessary only to identify which harmonic was being selected. In order to obtain high efficiency, an echelette grating spectrometer was constructed, in emulation of many, thus working with millimeter waves and the infrared. A spectrometer similar to that of Coates was considered, but expediency dictated a simpler system. The final design emphasized convenience in use by separating input and output paths, and simplicity of construction by having but one moving part. In Figs. 1 and 2 it may be seen that the grating merely rotates on fixed bushings; no other optical parts are moved"
"A microwave detection process very similar to Bloembergen's quantum counting has been observed in the vicinity of 500 Gc using the fluorescence of ion pairs in red ruby. The detector which has been realized is quite sensitive and particularly simple because it uses polychrornatic light for pumping. The results reported here are preliminary, and the apparatus is not refined for detection beyond the stage at which feasibility has been shown."
"In recent studies of a pulsed source of millimeter and submillirneter waves the average power of the signals generated was below the sensitivity of common power meters that utilize barrettes or thermistors. A device was required that measured peak power or energy per pulse. A method for measurement of peak power employing bolometers had been developed for power levels of a few milliwatts in the centimeter wavelength range (up to K band). In this method the nearly linear resistance rise of a barretter upon application of a RF rectangular pulse is differentiated. The diffierentiation produces a step function, and a peak reading instrument measures its amplitude."
"Injection phase locking of reflex klystron oscillators was recently reported by Mackey in these Transactions. Two-cavity klystron oscillators may be phase locked in a similar manner. Injection locking affords a means of two-cavity oscillator stabilization that obviates the necessity for elaborate beam voltage and temperature control. Excellent frequency stability may be obtained by locking the two-cavity oscillator to a signal derived from either a crystal oscillator or a frequency standard. Fig. 1 shows a two-cavity oscillator injection locking system."
"The purpose of this communication is to point out that a parallel-plate waveguide filled with a gyrotropic dielectric, can support a TEM mode which has special characteristics."
"Several methods can be utilized to launch electromagnetic waves along an ionized column contained in a cylindrical duct. An often used one is shown in Fig. 1 where the waveguide is aperture-coupled to a surrounding resonant cavity. In this configuration, the fields inside the waveguide are produced by boundary excitation, and the fields are uniquely determined by the assignment of the tangential component of E in the aperture. It is our purpose to present explicit equations for the various field components in terms of the value of E/sub tang/. The contribution from the volume sources J and J/sub m/ is also included for the sake of completeness. The detailed derivation follows the methods of Bresler and Marcuvitz and is given elsewhere."
"The writer cannot agree with some of the principal conclusions in the article by P. Vilmur and K. Ishii. The authors report a very narrow line width for a single crystal barium ferrite slab. The line width is very frequency sensitive, ranging from 3.5 oersteds at 58 Gc to 13 oersteds at 59 Gc. The authors derive a formula for line width which they claim fits the experimental data. However, it is believed that the narrow line width is not necessarily an intrinsic property of the material, but is influenced by the relatively large thickness of the slab used. Also this writer does not agree with the formula for line width derived by the authors."
"Data on the line widths of oriented polycrystalline, hexagonal ferrites with large magnetic anisotropy fields have shown that the uniaxial ferrites (easy direction of magnetization along the C axis) have a considerably larger line width than that of planar ferrites (easy plane of magnetization perpendicular to the C axis). For example, in work performed at Philips on the uniaxial barium and strontium ferrites of the magnetoplumbite structure, with aluminum or titanium-cobalt substitutions, the line width varied over a range of 1600 to 3300 oersteds for materials with anisotropies ranging from 7000 to 52,000 oersteds. There was no strong correlation between line width and anisotropy field. In work done at Sperry on uniaxial nickel-W compounds with cobalt substitutions, the line width ranged from 2200 to 3000 oersteds for materials with anisotropies ranging from 7000 to 12,800 oersteds. On the other hand, in work performed by RCA on planar ferrites, a line width as low as 110 oersteds was obtained, and a large number of compounds had a line width less than 500 oersteds."
"When a circulator is used with a parametric amplifier or maser, the noise contribution of the circulator may be reduced by cooling it in liquid nitrogen or liquid helium. Compact devices are required to put in the dewar and, depending on the microwave frequency, a compromise may be necessary in choosing between a compact stripline circulator and a comparatively bulky H-plane waveguide circulator, because waveguide feeds will have lower loss than coaxial line. This problem may be eased by using a very compact E-plane waveguide circulator, as shown in Fig. 1(a)."
"Recent work at The Hallicrafters Company coucerued with the analysis of the transmission of pulsed electromagnetic energy through dispersive media has caused the writers to review the above work of R. S. Elliott. In this review it was noted that (14) of that work contains an error (which has been brought to the attention of R. S. Elliott, who agrees that it does exist)."
"A gyromagnetic coupler using a single-crystal YIG sphere as a coupling element suffers from two significant sources of temperature instability. One of these is anisotropy drift, a characteristic that is internal to the coupling element, since it stems directly from temperature induced variations in crystalline anisotropy. The other is appropriately characterized as external; it derives from temperature induced variations in the magnetic biasing source. Either or both of these variations will result in a change in the resonant frequeucy of a gyromagnetic coupler. The 3-db bandwidth of a low loss YIG coupler may be of the order of 40 Mc, hence a change in resonant frequency of as little as 5 Mc will be detected as an increase in insertion loss at the original frequency. It is therefore quite desirable that the variations which contribute to this instability be reduced to a minimum. Means have been developed for eliminating both of these instabilities, thus rendering the gyromagnetic coupler a much more practical device under a variety of environmental conditions."
"This communication reports some experimental results for an S-band wide-band degenerate parametric amplifier designed with a method earlier described by the author."
"This work was activated by the lack of information in literature about the effect of an H-plane branch upon electromagnetic waves traveling through the collinear arms of the branch. Most literature about the subject predicts zero degrees phaseshift across the trivial 90/spl deg/ branch or clear expressions of the phaseshift are not made."
"This communication describes a design for a variable attenuator which can operate at very high peak and average power levels propagating in any chosen mode in a single or a multimode waveguide. This attenuator offers the desirable characteristics of dissipating energy in external loads rather than within the internal structure and utilizes only one coupling mechanism. The device consists of a coupled wave structure between two modes in adjacent primary and secondary waveguides, and a suitable mechanism for varying the phase constant of the secondary waveguide."
"The technique of using /spl lambda//sub g/ /2 transformers in a waveguide series-T junction to obtain low VSWR's over broad bandwidths has already been presented in the literature. VSWR's less than 1.15 for transmission through the aligned arms, and less than 1.30 for transmission around the bend, were reported for bandwidths of 17.4 per cent."
"A narrow-band coaxial filter is described which has a stop band fourteen times the fundamental frequency, and is relatively simple to design. Since the well-known multiresonator coaxial band-pass filter having quarter-wavelength resonators is probably the most commonly used coaxial filter for narrow-band frequency selection, the design to be described herein is most meaningful. Identical construction techniques used in the common quarter-wavelength filter can also be used for this design. Rather than employing the normal quarter-wavelength resonators, the filter being described here makes use of resonators which are approximately one-tenth of a wavelength long. The one-tenth wavelength coaxial sections are made to resonate by capacitively loading the open-circuit end of the cavities. The capacitors are formed by placing a disk on the end of the center conductor and inserting a low-loss dielectric between the disk and the end wall of the cavity. Fig. 1 shows a cutaway view of a four-stage filter using the above loading scheme. The dielectric section is bonded to the end of the cavity and the center conductor disk is completely captured by the dielectric in order to insure complete support of the center conductor under extreme vibration. It has been found that this type of capacitive loading does not appreciably reduce the unloaded cavity Q nor cause an increase in insertion loss of the filters."
"In recent correspondences by Shulman, Castaguetto and Matheau, there are discussions of the conditions for maximum power transfer."
"The parameters of a resonator which is coupled to a transmission line can be determined in a straightforward way from the measurement of the reflectance on the line. However, graphical methods of evaluating the resonator parameters are based on the assumption that the inductance of the coupling loop can be neglected in comparison with the involved impedances. A simple method of graphical evaluation of the resonator parameters which takes into account the coupling inductance too will be described here."
"As a frequent user of the curves given by J. R. Whinnery, H. W. Jamieson and T. E. Robbins, I found it useful to arrive at a simple polynomial in powers of /spl alpha/ and /spl tau/, which makes it possible to incorporate the step-capacitance calculation in a subroutine in a computer program dealing with transmission line calculations in coaxial lines."
"A general theory for analyzing scattering from loaded scatterers is available, and has been applied to small scatterers suitable for electromagnetic field measurements. The theory is valid for both passive and active loads, as long as the load is linear. Ryerson has proposed the use of tunnel diodes to provide a negative resistance load, thereby enhancing the scattered signal. His predictions have been verified experimentally by measurements on dipoles and tunnel diodes at S band. The use of scatterers and tunnel diodes for field measurements is discussed in this communication."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The radiation from a point charge moving uniformly in a plasma is investigated when the charge is moving in the direction of an external magnetic field. In general there are two modes, for each of which all the components of the electric and magnetic field are present. The two parameters of interest in this problem are the ratio u/c/sub 0/ of the velocity of the charges to the free-space velocity of electromagnetic waves and the ratio R of the gyromagnetic frequency to the plasma frequency of the electrons. For two sets of values of these parameters the frequency and the angular spectrum of the emitted radiation are obtained. In certain cases, as many as three Cerenkov rays are found to propagate in the same direction; these multiple rays, however, correspond to different frequency components and to different modes of propagation. The motivation for this investigation is indicated briefly."
"This paper deals with two basic problems in the measurement of the Q factor of low-loss transmission lines: 1) long lines and 2) short lines with appreciable direct coupling between the driving and pickup probes. The results are given as relative ordinates on the (distorted) resonance curve which correspond to the correct values of /spl plusmn//spl 1/2//spl delta//spl iota/ or /spl plusmn//spl 1/2//spl delta//spl conint/ defined by Q =/spl conint/ / /spl delta//spl conint/=/spl iota/ / /spl delta//spl iota/."
"For impedance matching in transmission lines, nonuniform lines, obeying laws of taper like the exponential, the Dolph-Chebyshev etc., are used. For the nonuniform coaxial line, constructional advantages can be derived for the same electrical performance if it has a uniform circular inner conductor with an outer conductor having an isoperimetric transition, from circular to elliptic cross section, in conformity with the established laws of taper. This problem has been examined in the paper, and the required design formulas as well as the design charts are developed. The effect of an impedance and geometric discontinuity at the low-impedance junction of such a nonuniform line and the concentric circular uniform line is discussed. The use of the isoperimetric transition line in microwave components is indicated."
"This paper tabulates, as functions of reflection gain and ripple, the element values of negative-resistance terminated, prototype, low-pass, lumped-element ladder networks of normalized impedance and bandwidth. (the values are calculated using known synthesis methods.) Next, it provides a technique for relating the characteristics of any actual narrow-band, negative-resistance device to the value of the prototype susceptive element adjacent to the negative resistance. When an actual negative-resistance device has been related to a prototype in this manner, the performance of the device with one, two or three additional cascaded resonators can be predicted from given graphs. This allows trade-offs among gain, ripple, and bandwidth, within limits. Finally, the predicted performance can be used with simple formulas and the table of prototype element values to design suitable resonators to broadband the actual amplifier. The tables and techniques of this paper are used successfully to broadband tunnel-diode, maser and parametric-amplifier circuits. This paper allows the practical engineer to estimate the broad-banding potential of any given negative-resistance device and provides him with the proper element values to do so with only a few very simple calculations required."
"A thin coil spring whose length can be varied periodically by mechanical means has been used as a probe to measure the electric field intensity. The vibrating probe acts as a reradiating antenna with periodically varying length that modulates and scatters the component of the E/sup bar/ field which is parallel to the axis of the spring. The scattered signal is picked up by a receiving antenna (the sending antenna was used also as a receiving antenna) and amplified with an amplifier that is locked-in with the frequency of the mechanical vibration of the coil. Measurements were made with coil springs of three different dimensions, and a gain constant K, which should be independent of the product of the axial length of the coil and the magnitude of the vibration, was experimentally checked. Measurements of the field of a half-wave dipole antenna as measured with the spring probe are in general agreement with theory. An expression for the ratio between the scattered and incident waves is obtained based upon the field-pattern method and the approximations involved in the reciprocity-theorem method are clarified. It is also demonstrated (in the appendix) that the effective length of a thin helical antenna with a triangular current distribution equals one-half of the axial length of the helix."
"The results of detailed calculations based on Bosma's theory of 3-port stripline circulators are presented. The analysis has been modified to enable the scattering matrix, and therefore the circulator bandwidth, to be found. The equations of the 4-port junction have been derived and an expression for the scattering matrix of the general m-port junction is given. A comparison of experimental and theoretical results for the 3-port junction shows good agreement for circulators designed in the frequency band 2-3 Gc. ,"
"Radiometry in the submillimeter and far infrared regions involves problems of a type not encountered in the centimeter region which require solutions using techniques different from those used in centimeter-wavelength radiometry. The nonlinear variation of the magnitude of the black-body radiation spectral density with temperature and wavelength, the limitation of antenna beamwidth by factors connected with the size of the noncoherent detector and the antenna focal length (rather than by diffraction effects and the antenna aperture) and the heavy absorption of submillimeter radiation by atmospheric water vapor are typical of the problems normally not encountered in centimeter radiometry. The unavailability of microwave techniques (i.e., waveguides, coherent receivers, etc.) makes necessary the use of quasi-optical techniques in this wavelength region. The interferometric modulator, which has already been used in far infrared spectrometers, is proposed in this paper as the major component of a practical submillimeter radiometer. Its use as the wave-number-selection device in a radiometer is analyzed and estimates are obtained for the sensitivity of this submillimeter radiometer. It is estimated that a 0.2/spl deg/ minimum detectable temperature differential is achievable with this radiometer. Also discussed are the effects of atmospheric water vapor absorption and the sensitivity of a number of different types of radiation detectors suitable for use in the submillimeter-wavelength region."
"It is natural that design considerations common to all kinds of filters should have received most attention in the literature. Some design considerations which are peculiar to waveguide filters (being due to the dispersive property of waveguides) are treated in this paper. It is shown that there are waveguide dimensions which minimize the filter dissipation loss and also the filter pulse power capacitance and which keep the nearest spurious-frequency response farthest from the fundamental pass band. Graphical data are presented to show how much is to be gained or lost by departing from the usual dimensions."
"Many applications require the presence of a dielectric inside a microwave resonator. This paper presents a new type of dielectric-loaded cavity and contains a detailed analysis of its properties. The cavity consists of a waveguide of arbitrary but uniform cross section, filled with dielectric for part of its length, with movable shorting plungers in the guide beyond one or both ends of the dielectric. Such a structure supports resonances at frequencies where a particular waveguide mode is above cutoff in the dielectric, but below cutoff outside. These resonances can have high Q's, especially when the cavity ends are open. Frequency tuning is possible via the movable plungers. The present analysis investigates resonant frequency, tuning range, and electric and magnetic filling factors. Wall losses are calculated for the particular case of a circular cross section. All results are plotted as universal design curves. The results indicate that this configuration is quite versatile and should be useful in numerous applications, including microwave solid-state masers, microwave light modulators, and the study of \"ghost mode\" resonances in waveguide windows."
"Maxwell's equations for wave propagation in a cylindrical anisotropic dielectric rod have been solved for various values of the longitudinal and transverse dielectric constants with the help of an IBM 7090 computer. The solutions are limited to modes having no rotational dependence about the direction of propagation. Families of curves for various ratios of longitudinal to transverse dielectric constants are given, showing the relationship between the guided wavelength and the diameter of the rod. Equations for the cutoff and asymptotic behavior are also given."
"In a recent letter Gunston has presented a wonderfully simple approximate formula for the smallest z zero of the Bessel function equation J/sub p/(z) N/sub p/ (kz) - J/sub p/(kz)N/sub p/(z) =0(1) where J/sub p/ and N/sub p/ are, respectively, the Bessel functions of the first and second kinds of real-order p. This communication is intended to draw attention to the existence of similar approximate formulas for both the larger z zeros of (1) and the roots of the equally-important companion equationJ'/spl/sub p/(z) N'/sub p/ (kz) - J'/sub p/(kz)N'/sub p/(z) =0 (2) where ' indicates differentiation."
"Measurement of ferromagnetic resonance linewidths over a range of microwave frequencies is facilitated by the use of a nonresonant waveguide system. The loading effect encountered in such a transmission line system, however, becomes significant when the linewidth is less than a few tens of oersteds. The effect of transmission line loading was avoided by the use of an automatic compensation network."
"Design criteria for band-stop filters having bandwidths up to few per cent have been presented by Young, Matthaei, and Jones. The purpose of this correspondence is to extend their work to include a new type of strip-line resonator which is easier to construct and adjust, and also permits the application of printed circuit fabrication."
"In connection with a recent communication by Beatty I wish to advise you that we have been studying the two-arm dissipative waveguide junction in our laboratory. Two years ago I published a new demonstration of Deschamp's method for measuring scattering coefficients and the general properties of those coefficients."
"Analysis and design of a nonuniform coaxial line with an isoperimetric sheath deformation has been reported. The object of this note is to show that the procedure followed therein can be adopted for evaluating some of the essential features of an infinitely long ideal transmission line with an elliptic sheath and a circular inner conductor. Apart from its reported use with the nonuniform line, this type of structure may also be found in medium and large sized electronuclear machines."
"In a previous correspondence the exact frequency response of the single resonator traveling wave directional filter was presented assuming that all transmission lines had characteristic impedances equal to the terminating impedance of the network. The purpose of this correspondence is to extend the previous work to take into account the case where the transmission lines connecting the parallel coupled lines have an arbitrary characteristic impedance Z/sub I/. The resulting structure is shown in Fig. 1."
"A crystal detector mount which is well suited for use with beam waveguides of either the refracting or reflecting type is based on the same concept as the wall-current detector of deRonde. The geometry of one form of the detector is shown in Fig. 1."
"The temperature distribution within a waveguide filled with a lossy dielectric, and propagating a specified mode, may be conveniently obtained by the Green's function method. Such a solution is useful for describing the temperature distribution in vacuum windows, for example."
"A quick and inexpensive way of making spherical or prolate spheroidal reflectors for use in the millimeter wave range has been developed. This technique is based upon the fact that for small deflections a circular membrane stretched uniformly by a vacuum assumes approximately the shape of a spherical cap, and an elliptical membrane assumes approximately the shape of a prolate spheroidal cap. In making the reflectors, 0.001- inch aluminum foil is used as the membrane because of its low elastic limit. Once the foil is stretched, it retains its shape, eliminating the need for continual pumping."
"This communication describes a technique for decreasing the frequency variation of coupling of multihole broadwall waveguide directional couplers. The usual curve of coupling vs frequency is shown in Fig. 1 and has a peak-to-peak variation of 1.0 db. The proposed method, which is similar to the use of multiple sections in coaxial couplers, perturbs the coupled voltage by adding a small voltage that is in phase at midband where the coupling is looser and out of phase near the band edges. The required perturbation is produced by means of the coupling structure shown in Fig. 2, where the phase of one coupled voltage is delayed with respect to the other coupled voltage because of an added path length /spl Delta/L."
"Recent attempts to design a precision coaxial to strip line transformer have raised the need to know accurately the characteristic impedance of square coaxial line (i.e. a concentric line, as shown in Fig. 1, having inner and outer conductors of square cross section ) which forms an intermediate part of the proposed transformer."
"Waffle-iron filters are waveguide \"low-pass\" filters, that is, they have a wide stop band above their pass band. They are useful for both low-power and high-power applications. A brief history of the development of this filter at Stanford Research Institute is given by Young and Schiffman. A new design principle which makes it possible to extend the pass band from, (typically) about 10 percent to about 40 per cent is also described; the pass band of that filter covers almost the whole of the recommended waveguide band, while its stop band extends from the second to the fourth harmonic, inclusive."
"The Cohn synthesis is generally preferred as a convenient design technique for direct-coupled waveguide filters covering a moderate bandwidth. Approximations inherent in the theory result in considerable deviations from the theoretical pass band response as the design bandwidth increases. The magnitude of the deviations is difficult to predict and proves troublesome in designs requiring a low pass band VSWR."
"Backward diodes, tunnel diodes have been successfully operated as detectors, mixers at microwave frequencies. The extension of their usage from microwave frequencies to millimeter wave frequencies is a natural outgrowth of earlier work."
"In the above Correspondence, on page 216, in (17), the numerical factor should be 27.3, and not 2.73."
"In the above paper, on page 170, the /spl Delta/ symbols were omitted in (34) and (35). On page 176, the caption to fig. 24 should be: Characteristics in the stop band of the quarter-wave transformer prototype and the two filters (B and C in Fig. 23) derived from it."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"In recent years the evolution of more sophisticated military avionic systems has required a corresponding reduction in component size and an increase in component life, precision, and reliability. To satisfy these more difficult design requirements, silicon solid-state devices are being used more extensively in power switching applications. Silicon controlled rectifiers (SCR's) can be used in place of relays or to drive relays with the proper ignition and extinction control circuits. The most general purpose external control circuits are the use of a transformer winding in series or in parallel with the SCR for quenching and a transformer winding connected between the trigger and the cathode for ignition. The use of separate transformers for exact timing and control of SCR's in dc circuits is an optimum control method since transformers have no moving parts and are usually more reliable than relays or pure transistor networks. In ac circuits, where waveform zeros are not used for switching, transformers can provide a convenient, precise method of SCR control. The purpose of this paper is to provide an optimum procedure for the designing of single primary and secondary winding ignition and extinction transformers (as shown in Fig. 1) for controlling SCR's. In addition, this paper provides a transformer core and winding specification synthesis that minimizes the over-all transformer size. A transformer secondary can provide a voltage zero in series with the SCR which allows the center p-n region to naturally recombine its excess charge carriers. It can also reset an SCR by providing both an external short across the SCR and the required SCR reverse current to deplete the excess charge carriers in the region of the center junction. This paper presents six circuits and their design parameters for setting and resetting SCR's. There are two ignition circuits and four quench circuits. For each of the six transformer circuits a relizability theorem, using the external circuit parameters, is provided so that a nonrealizable synthesis can be avoided. Ignition and extinction of SCR's require either a current impulse or a voltage impulse. Consequently the transformer design procedure is based upon certain essential elements of the full equivalent circuit, which is shown in Fig. 2. These transformers are intermittent in operation and do not require phase and amplitude linearity; hence the significant circuit design parameters are the turns ratio N, coil resistances Rssand Rsp, and primary shunt inductance Lp. The procedure developed in this paper is based upon these fundamental transformer parameters with derived criteria for maximum values of leakage inductance Lsand equialent shunt capacitance Cw(both referred to the primary side). A simple synthesis procedure is also presented in this paper for the determination of actual transformer core and winding dimensions based upon the equivalent circuit parameters of Fig. 2 and the known external circuit environment."
"Whether it be in the packaging of electronic components or in the design of systems for the cryogenics field, the understanding of liquid boiling phenomena and the ability to predict boiling behavior are important assets to the design engineer so involved. This paper offers an already sifted compilation of information and analyses which relates studies of all the occurrences from nucleate bailing to film boiling in a fluent story. Herein are discussed the influence of the system pressure, the cleanliness, roughness and chemical nature of the heating surface, and the wettability and degree of subcooling of the liquid. In the final partion of the paper an effort is made to tie the information presented together in what might be considered advisory remarks relative to its application."
"A new aluminum solid foil type capacitor, based on the use of semiconductor material (manganese dioxide) instead of the use of a liquid electrolyte, is described. This capacitor compares favorably with the high reliability liquid-impregnated aluminum types (the so-called extended life types). This new capacitor occupies an intermediate position, as regards capacitance-voltage product per unit of volume, between the above mentioned high reliability type and the solid slug tantalum type. Outstanding properties of this aluminum capacitor are its behavior at low temperature and the stability of the various electrical parameters during life tests. Because of its estimated lower cost as compared with the solid slug tantalum capacitor, this new type will be especially suited for applications where neither the utmost miniaturization nor the better electrical properties of the solid slug tantalum capacitor are needed, but where a conventional liquid impregnated type has inadequate low temperature characteristics and has too short a stable life. Pilot plant production has been started, the output of which is being used for evaluation purposes."
"Equations are derived and curves are plotted showing the change in Q of an inductor as a function of a change in size. The approach used is to assume the existence of a model having a fixed inductance and operating under a fixed set of conditions. A change in size is introduced by a magnification-type enlargement or shrinkage of all outline dimensions by the factor \"a.\" Assuming a constant effective permeability and readjusting the number of turns to maintain inductance constant results in the elimination of \"n,\" the relative number of turns. With the further assumption of a constant copper space factor, the relative copper losses (in the absence of core losses) determine the relative Q as a function of relative size. Copper losses with skin effect and with solid conduction are considered. The same approach is used to derive equations of relative size vs relative Q for a pure core-loss inductor. For this purpose, core losses are approximated by a straight-line equation between the logarithm of flux density and the logarithm of core-loss density. This turns out to depend upon the properties of magnetic materials. Although under certain conditions core losses may actually go down as size goes down, the broader considerations (not treated mathematically in this paper) of combined copper and core losses make such a condition untenable. At least, the equations and curves can provide the basis for a judicious estimate of the effect of miniaturization on inductor Q in any specific application."
"This paper describes the fabrication and testing of microminiaturized thin-film switching matrices made of thin-film titanium oxide diodes. The binary-to-decimal converters will find especially useful application in slow switching display devices."
"While glass has many applications in the electronics means of \"chemical machining\" of photosensitive glasses. The field, five classifications serve to cover them all. The wide range of latter approach is widely applied to the making of printed wiring applications which exist is attributable to the wide range of properties boards. which can be obtained in glasses. Historically, the use of glass for its dielectric properties dates Sealability and impermeability of glasses have enabled them to back 200 years. The material is presently finding acceptance in maintain prominence in use for enclosures, starting with Edison's laminated capacitors where the end use demands utmost reliability. lamps and carrying through to today's electrostatic printing tubes. Glasses which can be sealed into laminated structures, then One recent sealing achievement was the simplification of color devitrified so as to develop ferroelectric properties, are now receiving television picture tube assembly by use of a relatively new material, attention. Devitrifying solder glass. Glass fibers as small as 8 microns in diameter are utilized in Structural and supporting parts may be made in intricate and various electronic and optical devices; cathode-ray tube trace complex shapes by means of the \"multiform\" process and by widths as small as 0.001 inch are obtainable by use of fibers in the tube faceplates. Bundles of fibers have been made to serve as signal pickoffs in certain ultrasonic delay line systems which take advantage of both the optical properties and some unusual acoustical properties of glass."
"Thermistors with positive temperature characteristics of resistance have been recently developed. Their distinguished temperature characteristics, being divided into two groups--type SW and TC--have various application fields in electronic and electrical engineering. The paper describes and surveys the processing techniques of major importance, the fundamental characteristics of this component, and design criteria for the desired component. Various uses of the component, as a thermal controller, a current limiter, a current stabilizer, a temperature compensator, etc., are explained to serve as a guide to other applications."
"The mechanism of resistance drift of a 1-watt carbon composition resistor has been investigated, based on a study of the internal construction. Predominant physical and chemical processes under given environments are postulated. Aging mechanisms, the behavior of resistance drift under various environmental conditions over a period of time and failure modes are considered. Restrictions on application of the part and criteria for part selection are established. Failure analyses have also been performed to verify the postulated behavior mechanisms."
"An inorganic binder was developed whereby woundcut type C cores can now operate at higher ambient temperatures. The inorganic binder, having the composition and properties of glass, served as an electrical insulator as well as the adhesive. Grain-oriented silicon steel was used in the construction of sample cores for the evaluation of the developed inorganic glassy binder over a wide temperature range."
"Capacitors with tungsten oxide as the dielectric were prepared by electrochemical oxidation in dilute sulfuric acid of thin tungsten films deposited on glass substrates. Evaporated gold counter-electrodes were used. Tungsten capacitors did not exhibit a definite capacitance-forming voltage relationship, and the capacitance often changed markedly with time. When the inverse of the capacitance C is plotted against layer thickness d for capacitors anodized to the same voltage, the points are found to drift toward a line given by C-1= B(d -- do). The dielectric constant calculated from the slope B is 40. This suggests that a limited portion do of the total oxide thickness is gradually converted into relatively conductive material. Thin-film resistors have been prepared by the anodization of vacuum-deposited tungsten metal. The resistors are provided with almninum contact tabs to maintain a durable, low resistance contact. Anodization of the tungsten film forms a protective oxide layer and adjusts the metal thickness to provide precisely a desired resistance value. Resistance values with 1 per cent precision are obtained by automatically monitoring the anodization process. Heat treating the films in vacuum for short periods results in stabilization without any appreciable change in resistance. Sheet resistivities as high as 2000 ohms/sq have been obtained with a temperature coefficient of resistance no greater than --200 ppm/°C, and sheet resistivities as high as 575 ohms/sq have been obtained with zero temperature coefficient of resistance. Stability is maintained within 1 per cent per 1000 hours while dissipating 2 w/in2at 25°C for the 2000 ohms/sq films, and 8 w/in2for 250 ohms/sq films. These characteristics made tungsten an attractive choice over other refractory metals for use as thin-film resistors in microelectronic circuits."
"Theoretical expressions were developed for the thermal resistance of finned, medium-power transistor heat sinks which are mounted on printed-circuit boards, with part of the cooling air free to by-pass over other components of the board. Optimizing these expressions, the fin number that will give the lowest thermal resistance for given conditions within a logic gate can be obtained. Theoretical results were in good agreement with experimental data, and indicated that, within the range of practical applications, thermal resistance of double-finned heat sinks is independent of the number of fins."
"Extensive use of Ferrite cores in switching circuits has necessitated the development of a theoretical analysis of the switching core which will yield easy manipulations and act as a tool for the design engineer. Approximations introduced in the analysis based on physical concepts of flux reversal are themselves complex. In the present article an analysis is presented based on the flux-time curve of the core and simple cases of core loading are dealt with."
"This paper shows that the series and parallel capacitors may be changed in value, within wide limits, to make a bandpass filter meet required frequency response. Good filter action is maintained when varying the capacitance values. This result helps in the initial design of these networks by permitting simple trimmer elements to be included in the design. It also allows a better prediction of reliability of a system containing such networks."
"Moisture problems have perennially plagued the use of the electrical and electronic products. Carbon composition resistors represent a widely used component which must withstand the effects of moisture. Continual improvements in construction and materials have made this possible. To illustrate and magnify the changes that occur in commercial composition resistors with moisture exposure, molded resistors were prepared without insulating jackets or impregnant. Moisture changes are demonstrated to be largely reversible by drying and to be cumulative on extended or repeated moisture exposure. A good correlation was obtained between changes in length and resistance during moisture exposure. An impregnating wax is shown to reduce greatly the moisture susceptibility of the model resistors. Some comparative results obtained with different types of resin binder are also shown, indicating the significant contribution of this phase."
"The apparent hysteresis loop of a square loop magnetic material is affected by winding capacitance, shorted turns, air gap, and strain. The effects of these parameters on an oscilloscopic display of the dynamic hysteresis loop are demonstrated."
"The development of vapor-plating techniques has made possible the preparation of a variety of oxide dielectric films. The work described in this paper is a preliminary evaluation of the physical and chemical properties of some of these films and their suitability for use as capacitor dielectrics. The physical structure of the films has been investigated by X-ray diffraction techniques. Physical and chemical stability of the films was evaluated by thermal shock tests, resistance to scratch and nature of scratch fractures produced, and a variety of chemical treatments. Optical interferomatic techniques were developed for the accurate measurement of film thickness for determination of dielectric constant, dielectric strength and resistivity. Electrical properties of the films were evaluated by capacitor measurements. Results indicate that vapor plated oxide dielectrics have good potential for capacitor applications. This technique has allowed fabrication of capacitors which show a dissipation factor of less than 1 per cent in the frequency range of 100 cps to 300 kc, a capacitance of more than 100 uuf/mm2, and a time constant of open circuit voltage decay in excess of 1000 seconds. Environmental and accelerated aging tests were carried out on the capacitors and a good correlation with the physical and chemical stability of the films was shown. Other applications for these films are under study."
"A series of miniaturized circuit breakers for precise control and protection of miniature components has been developed. Hermetically sealed units in one, two, and three poles were specifically designed for severe service environments. Selection of the hermetic seal eliminated many environmental problems such as moisture, corrosion, sand and dust, altitude, fungus, and explosion-proof tests. Two time-delay curves are available for each type of current, dc up to 20 amperes at 50 volts and 60 and 400-cycle ac up to 20 amperes at 240 volts. The designed operating range is from minus 40°C to plus 100°C."
"A design procedure is described whereby multiple resistance networks can be synthesized from a single layer, monolithic, resistive structure. The method is illustrated by detailing the design of attenuators operating on an image-impedance basis. The single sheet geometry used is a rectangle with conducting tabs placed on its boundary. Conformal transformation techniques are applied to facilitate the computation of the required open-circuit resistance values which characterize a given rectangular geometry. Two SchwarzChristoffel transformations and a bilinear transformation permit the rapid design of a monolithic resistive network meeting prescribed specifications. The mapping of critical points is diagrammed to help the reader clearly visualize the transformations involved. Specific analytical examples are carried out, and curves are presented showing the dependence of network characteristics upon the parameters of sheet resistivity, geometric ratios, and position and size of the conducting tabs. The synthesis of two pads is described to illustrate graphical techniques involved. Both attenuators are designed to operate between 75 \\Omega characteristic impedances, and to have 2 db of insertion loss. The first pad is realized by holding tab size constant and deriving the necessary rectangular geometry and resistivity. In the second case, the resistivity is held constant while the required geometry is determined. In general, alternative physical embodiments which are electrically equivalent afford a desirable flexibility from the viewpoint of network fabrication. The above synthesis techniques have been substantiated by the construction and measurement of laboratory models. Experimental data are given which represent the results obtained using tantalum film designs. Excellent correlation with theory is noted. Possible advantages which monolithic single-sheet networks offer over the discrete multiple resistor circuits which they replace are reduction of the number of components, better HF performance, ease of manufacture, and higher reliability due to the need for fewer interconnections. The single-sheet resistive components are notable for their compatibility with current thin-film fabrication techniques."
"An analysis is made of the properties and problems of Maximum current interrupting ability and photos of contacts contacts, switching, and holding off high and low voltages, high which are interrupting up to 18,000 a are shown. and low currents ac, dc, and RF in a high vacuum environment with some relation to outer space problems. Characteristics of contacts from above atmospheric pressure down to less than 10-9mm of mercury of pressure are listed in detail. Sparkover and spacing vs pressure (or vacuum) level, \"cold\" field emission currents vs spacing and voltage are graphed up to 200 kv. Change in vacuum levels vs time and arcing for sealed enclosures is listed showing average change from 10-9to 10-5mmHg taking 20 to 50 years under static conditions. Arc voltages in the order of twenty to one hundred volts for 1 to 18,000 a interruptions are shown. Switching recovery voltages and transient over-voltages from switching in vacuum are shown to be compatible with normal switching requirements, but awareness should be made of transient generating circuitry and mechanisms. A detailed analysis is shown in photographs of tungsten contacts after interrupting various high and low currents ac and dc. Examination shows that most high vacuum contact surface pitting, welding or projections are created by the \"make\" of current and the \"break\" or interruption of current results in only slight relatively smooth erosion or build up. In all cases with tungsten, the metal transfer is from the negative to the positive electrode, the same direction as electron flow."
"A new approach to the relay design problem has led to improved sensitivity, reliability, maintenance-free long life, and a considerable reduction of size and cost. Extremely efficient magnetic circuits having no ineffective reluctance and requiring no new contact materials permit a high degree of miniaturization of polar relays. To simplify the magnetic circuit, the permanent magnet is used both as the balanced armature and as the \"permanent magnet\" itself, with all of the air gaps in the magnetic circuit serving as effective reluctances to drive the armature. A characteristic equation obtained from an examination of the leakage flux and the internal reluctance of the permanent magnet is in good agreement with the experimental results. To improve the transmission performance, good chatter-free contact springs were used. Experimentally, it was determined that a stable contact resistance having a very long life is provided by the combination of a platinum contact and a gold-plated tungsten contact, hermetically sealed in inert gas containing a small amount of hydrogen. A subminiature polar relay recently developed for use in carrier telephony, telegraphy, and data transmission equipment has a volume of 2.9 cc, a weight of 10 gm, and an operating power of 0.5 mw. Transmission performance characteristics such as bias distortion and contact ratio are superior to any other widely used polar relays and are reliable enough to meet the environmental test of \"MIL-R-5757D.\""
"Previous theoretical work has predicted the feasibility of using cryotrons as linear amplifiers. In this paper, experimental evidence is presented which confirms these theoretical developments. Experimentally obtained static characteristics for cryotrons as well as the response of actual linear cryotron amplifiers are presented."
"During the past five years we have seen a substantial upsurge in welding as a technique for fabrication of electronics. The term \"welding\" has been applied to a variety of techniques, each with its special applications and special equipment. This paper describes the many different types of welding and production equipment available, and discusses the special procedures required. These points are paramount: First, no one technique is universally applicable to system assembly and cordwood module fabrication, as well as to deposited film and integrated circuit manufacture. Secondly, though we do not have universal equipment, we do have universal problems. To be really successful with any technique, we must establish rigid control of materials, exhaustive engineering analysis of the weld schedule or setup, and strict maintenance of standards for machine and operator qualification and certi- fication."
"It has long been apparent that uniformity of the body geometry and of the lead geometry and material of electronic parts is highly desirable. Dot or pellet component parts provide such uniformity to a high degree and thus lend themselves to the design of equipment of considerable sophistication. To demonstrate the technique a digital telemetry unit, previously packaged in the form of welded cordwood modules, was designed using dot components. The unit consists of some 1200 parts disposed on six card-shaped modules measuring 3\" x 6.7\" x 0.03\". Modules are made of molded epoxy and are color coded for assembly and trouble shooting purposes. Silkscreened conductive adhesive is used for intraconnections. All interconnections (i.e. external to modules) are brought out along one edge of the module in the form of flexible, multistranded wires. These wires are permanently soldered, book fashion, to an interconnection matrix consisting of an array of welded tubes. By treating the modules as pages in a book, all parts are accessible for inspection or replacement without disconnecting any section of the circuit. Foil-clad balsa wood spacers are provided for separation between adjacent modules. The modules and spacers are stacked and compressed by means of two rigid end plates and two screws, thus providing a compact, prestressed structure virtually immune to shock and vibration."
"The reliability of any connecting process is statistically governed by the number of process parameters. Significantly, for reliable welding a multiplicity of parameters requires close control, but reliable soldering depends primarily upon one - solderability of the surfaces to be joined. The theoretical and practical implications of solderability and tests for its evaluation are discussed. An entirely new test is described which is rapid, simple, and significantly correlated with connection quality. The test is based upon an estimate of the contact angle between a molten solder preform and the metal surface. This concept is also linked theoretically with the surface tension-interfacial tension relationship controlling \"wetting\". This test has been used extensively in the evaluation of component lead wires and in measures to raise their solderability to the highest possible level, with remarkable effects upon connection quality. Formation of perfect fillets having mechanical and electrical redundancy becomes automatic, independent from the human element and little affected by variations of solder, flux, or procedure. Nonaggressive fluxes, and, in some cases, flux-less processes may be used. Highly reliable connections are obtainable with very low-melting and very highmelting solder alloys. Thus, controlled high solderability conveys to solder processes a reliability aspect which is unique and, in some respects, unsurpassed in other connecting processes."
"This paper describes the rationale, design concepts and mechanization of a versatile electronic simulation and demonstration device to support maintainability programs and projects in which Philco Western Development Laboratories is currently engaged under Air Force specification MIL-M-26512B, \"Maintainability Requirements for Aerospace Systems and Equipment\". Specific system maintainability design applications include those aspects of equipment and personnel subsystem design required to enhance malfunction detection, diagnosis, isolation and correction. The device consists of a six foot relay rack and an associated remote control unit which contain a Prime System Simulator and interrelated Maintenance System. The former is programmed to represent an operating data flow configuration at the block diagram level of a system or subsystem for which a maintenance system is to be designed. The latter provides a pool of possible man machine combinations for maintaining the simulated \"prime\" equipment."
"Very high voltage-high power electronic equipment packaging techniques present new and unique problems in the field of product engineering and packaging. New electronic systems in this category consist of a number of subunits, but all of the systems utilize a high voltage power supply as the basic unit. In the case of conventional electronic systems, the power supply components have standard shapes and are packaged in accepted configurations. Components performing these same functions in high voltage high power supplies, deviate tremendously from the norm. The power transformer may occupy the same space as a weekend cabin, the filter capacitors may be as large as a railroad car, the rectifiers may give the impression of factory chimney stacks. For reasons of size alone these components require special structural considerations. For reasons of their high voltage-high power operation they also require special configuration considerations. The packaging of equipment in this category involves the packaging of bulky components into an assembly, while considering ease of construction, ease of transportation and the ease of removal of components for maintenance purposes. The components along with the hardware utilized for the support structure, must then constitute a package that provides the most economical utilization of space, and at the same time, provide voltage clearances that may be several orders of magnitude greater than those normally encountered when packaging lower voltage components. In general, this equipment is not contained within a cabinet or rack as is normal in lower voltage circuitry. These equipments usually utilize one or more buildings either in existence or specially designed and constructed for the purpose. Consequently, considerable thought must be given to operator convenience and human engineering. The packaging, integration and manufacturing of a typical system including operational, safety and maintenance considerations will be described."
"The advantages of electron beam cutting are outlined. Specific production applications of these cutting techniques to electronic packaging are discussed in detail. Examples presented include: the etching of micro components; the scribing of thin films; the drilling and cutting of precision holes and slots in ceramic components; and the use of the electron beam cutter as a salvage tool."
"Space Scientists and Engineers are under continuing pressure to establish increasingly rigid performance parameters in product design. The ever changing technical \"state of the art\" of space products dictates companion changes in the \"state of the art\" of supporting technical endeavors such as industrial engineering. One vital area in which industrial engineering must react in close concert with technical changes is material handling and packaging engineering. Material handling and packaging engineers must devise techniques, devices and systems to protect product performance parameters. In many instances, elements of the space industry have used a piecemeal approach to solve protective packaging and handling problems - with piecemeal results. A practical concept is needed to enable application of optimum industrial engineering to problems related to protection of space product reliability. This concept embraces recognition that space product manufacturers are part of a vast invention complex - and that this complex, in turn, is nothing more or less than an involved material flow. Accordingly, to enhance chances of space products to reliably perform; thoroughly integrated, cradle-to-grave protective packaging and handling systems and programs must be devised to cover every segment of the material flow - from raw materials to consumption. The manner of adoption of this concept by Lockheed's Missiles and Space Company and its efforts to bring to fruition practical results is presented."
"Miniaturization and micro-miniaturization are key words that are often heard in the electronic industry today. The increasing frequency of these terms reflects the growing importance attached to the reduction in size, of logic and power components used for data processing applications. In fact, miniaturization is now a primary project of many scientific research teams throughout the industry. The success of these projects is evidenced by the wide variety of small, smaller, and ultra-small computer components presently available. However, one aspect of the miniaturization program that has not kept pace with the primary effort, is the aspect of inter-component connections. There still exists in this area, a serious problem of developing and implementing an electrical communications scheme that can function between components of increasingly greater logical density. This paper proposes an effective connection scheme based on the \"solderless wire wrap\" technique."
"Integrated components made by using thin film and semiconductor techniques have an important part in the design and fabrication of physically smaller, more reliable electronic systems. The general processes of materials preparation, metallizing, circuit pattern formation, materials modification, pattern modification, lead attachment and protection are presented for both thin film and semiconductor integrated components. Comparative evaluation indicates that a combination of the two technologies will be used to meet the requirements of the sixties."
"Some time ago the potential value of welding electronic modules was recognized. An investigation was authorized to locate and solve the problems which would be encountered Jf this technique were to be applied to the electronic modules. This paper summarizes the status of findings to date, the number of problems still under investigation, and other subjects requiring study. Preparations have been made for the first production application of welding electronic modules. A welding specification OS 11889 has been released. This specification states the requirements of suitable welding machines and the criteria for certifying weld schedules and in-process and final inspection. Preliminary weld schedules have been developed which meet the broad requirements of the specification. The thousands of welds made and tested during the development of these schedules have served to field test the requirements and related conditions to current experience in industry. The investigations offer evidence that nickel, Dumet, and Kovar are weldable lead materials to nickel interconnecting media. To meet standards, separate weld schedules are required for each material size; moreover, variations in material composition and temper must be limited. Continuing study of other essential aspects of the problems are being pursued."
"Product Design Engineering performs tasks of ever increasing importance in the electronic industry. The problem of staffing this engineering function increases proportionally. The functions of Product Design Engineering are reviewed and practical means of staffing are discussed. Special attention is given to a proper organizational structure."
"Difficulties encountered in maintaining accurate registraion between layers of multilayer printed wiring cards has resulted in a method of preparing artwork actual size instead of by the usual enlarged artwork-photoreduction procedure. Fundamental to the approach is the fact that precise placement of lands, or pads, is more important than exact positioning of etched conductors: Accurate (±0.001 in) land location is assured by jig-boring land-size holes in sheet metal (Invar) and contact printing the hole pattern (lands) onto a glass photographic plate. Conductor paths are added using narrow (0.016 in min) black crepe printed-wiring layout tape. Presstype transfer letters and numbers are added as required for titles or identification. Final artwork is formed by proJection-printing the composite artwork onto another photographic plate using collimated light. Laboratory use of the technique has been successful in eliminating registration difficulties with 8 in x 15 in multilayer printed-wired cards."
". The trend toward higher-voltage picture-tube operation requires basic improvements in manufacturing techniques. The threshold of high-voltage instability characteristics of modern picture tubes cannot be increased significantly by design without adversely affecting focus and other performance characteristics. A practical technique of increasing the threshold of highvoltage instability by about 6 kv has been developed by means of extensive revisions of the picture-tube electron-gun manufacturing processes. Reduction of arcing, stray emission, neck fluorescence, and interelectrode shorts and leakages has resulted from the use of ultrasonic cleaning processes and \"clean\" environments. A precision method of controlling the grid-to-cathode spacing to improve the control of cut-off voltages has been developed. The physical geometry and relatively small size of picture-tube gun components required extensive investigations to determine the most efficient application of ultrasonic cleaning techniques, application of precision-controlled cathodegride 1 assembly technique, effective materials handling and storage methods, and a system for the protection of completed guns from particulate contamination. Concepts of environmental \"whiteroom\" nature were employed to house the program adequately. The extensive revisions to the picture-tube manufacturing processes and the new equipment and facilities at the RCA, Marion, Ind., plant are described. The performance of picture tubes has been improved continuously during the past few years as a result of improvements in high-voltage stability; reduction of interelectrode leakage; increased cathode emission, stability, and reliability; and the introduction of techniques related to focus quality. The solutions to these problems prompted detailed considerations of all factors affecting the picture tube, particularly gun processing and environmental controls during manufacturing. RCA, in the Marion, Ind., plant, has developed a new \"total concept' approach to the solution of f Electron Tube Division, RCA, Marion, /rid. these problems based on a micro-clean processing program designed to produced economically manufactured electron guns properly processed for maximum reliability,"
". Several of the major packaging techniques and design methods used for electronics portions of the Surveyor spacecraft are presented. Descriptions are given of a typical electronic unit as it will appear on the spacecraft."
"Different machining techniques for ferrite materials are discussed. Green or unfired ferrite pressed together with a waxlike binder, allows the use of existing machine tools in shaping the material. Chemical etching methods for green ferrite are also possible. Abrasive techniques for finished ferrites make possible automated machining methods with low initial and operating costs. Flexible, simple, and economical machining of ferrite is needed if the designer is to shape ferrite according to his calculated modes and not vice versa. Machining details and preparation of materials are summarized in attached Tables. Photographs, drawings, and graphs are included for visual explanation of the various machining operations"
"Propagation characteristics of radio signals in the 9300-Mc frequency range were investigated over a 113-km tropospheric within-the-horizon path in Eastern Colorado. Special attention was given to the short-term fading characteristics of the received carrier envelopes and to the bandwidth capability of the medium in this frequency range, which was studied by the comparison of amplitude variations of two CW carriers separated by 100 Mc in frequency. For this purpose, correlation coefficients between carrier envelopes as well as the distributions of carrier amplitude ratios were analyzed. Although these parameters are related, the amplitude ratio has some advantages as an indicator of selective fading phenomena for within-the-horizon paths. By sampling the 9250 and 9350 Mc instantaneous carrier amplitudes at the rate of one per second, an over-all value of 0.91 was obtained for their cross-correlation coefficient. The standard deviation of the amplitude ratios expressed in db at 9250 and 9350 Mc averaged 0.76 db, with a maximum hourly value of 1.81 db. These results include the effect of space diversity, as separate antennas were used for transmission and reception of the two carriers, but they support the feasibility of wide-band modulation techniques for within-the-horizon paths if judged by the statistics of amplitude variations at discrete frequencies at the limits of the band considered. Short-term and long-term fading characteristics at 9300 Mc are similar to the ones previously observed on lower frequencies over this path. An analysis of prolonged space-wave fadeouts in this frequency range resulted in fadeout depths up to 25 db below weekly transmission loss medians, approximately log-normal distributions of fadeout durations, and the expected diurnal variations of fadeout occurrence typical of a continental climate."
"The diffraction of a normally incident plane electromagnetic wave with wave numberkby a circular aperture of radiusain a unidirectionally conducting plane screen of zero thickness and infinite extent is considered. In the limit of largeka, the ratio of the transmission cross section to the geometrical optics value\\pi a^{2}, is found up to the order(ka)^{-3/2}."
"The general problem of modifying antenna array patterns by adjusting only the phase of the elements is discussed. It is shown that, in the case of endfire arrays, considerable reduction of the sidelobe levels can be obtained by using small departures from progressive phasing. Simple formulas for the required phasing are derived. An alternative method, using only a single pair of \"sidelobe-reducing\" elements, is also given."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Two independent sets of experimental results are presented on the back-scatter from plexiglass spheres. These are compared with theoretical computations for refractive indices m = 1.60, 1.61 and 1.61-0.0025i. For\\alpha(ratio of perimeter to wavelength)\\leq 7.5, the upper limit of the experimental data, the theoretical values are practically identical to one another and agreement with experiment is excellent. For\\alpha >7.5, the theoretical values diverge from one another. The small absorption coefficient has an increasingly important effect as the spheres grow larger, but even at\\alpha \\simeq 100, the cross section remains above its asymptotic value. Except for the interval30< \\alpha <40, plexiglass spheres have larger cross sections than metal ones between6 < \\alpha < 60. This is due to the focusing action of the dielectric sphere and the back surface reflection."
"It is shown that the presence of a gyrotropic plasma sheath covering a rectangular slot radiator may not alter significantly the radiation pattern when the static magnetic field is perpendicular to the slot. The plasma covered antenna remains omnidirectional and the radiated power is not significantly reduced when the cyclotron frequency\\omega_{b}, the collision frequency\\nu, and the operating frequency\\omega, fulfill the inequality\\omega_{b}^{2}\\gg\\omega^{2}+\\nu^{2}. It is also found that the matching between the plasma covered antenna and its surrounding is sharply improved for certain combinations of the plasma sheath parameters and the operating frequency. This finding may have an application in plasma diagnostics, the slab widthLand the plasma frequency\\omega_{p}can be determined by varying\\omega_{i}and\\omegaaccording to an expression derived in this paper."
"The optical analogue of the scattering cross section of a composite cylinder is developed from a representation of the forward scattered amplitude as a continuous spectrum of radial eigenfunctions. The Debye approximation for the Hankel functions, which is valid when their arguments are large compared to the order, leads to a series of integrals which can be evaluated asymptotically by the method of stationary phase. The final result, for a certain range of parameters, is a diffraction correction plus a double sum of terms, each of which can be interpreted as an optical ray. It is shown that if the angular displacement between the incoming and scattered ray directions is(2m + 1)\\pi, the ray must have been reflected at the conducting core of the cylinder at least2m + 1times. After the parameter ranges to which these results apply were determined, the nonlinear equations for the ray angles were solved on a large-scale digital computer and the scattering cross section of a number of composite cylinders was calculated as a function of frequency. The results are presented graphically."
"The frequency autocorrelation of amplitude and phase scintillations of radio signals propagated over turbulent line-of-sight paths is calculated theoretically. The single scattering (Born) approximation to the electromagnetic response of the turbulent irregularities is used, limiting the results to small amplitude and phase variations. However, the results are valid for both Fresnel (near zone) and Fraunhofer (far zone) scattering. The calculations are made for an arbitrary model of the turbulent irregularities by using the spectrum method, which postpones the specialization of the analysis to a particular turbulence model until the wave-propagation aspects of the problem are completed. It is shown that the signal variations on adjacent carrier frequencies have high correlation for frequency separations comparable to the carrier frequency for all propagation conditions, indicating that the \"medium bandwidth\" for line-of-sight paths is very large. This also means that there should be negligible pulse distortion for high-speed data links or high resolution radars operating on line-of-sight paths. These predictions are compared with the few available experimental results."
"Specific numerical results are presented for ground wave propagation over paths which are part sea and part land. The problem is idealized to the extent that the earth is a smooth spherical surface. The method is based on a previous formulation in terms of mutual impedance between two vertical electric dipoles on an inhomogeneous spherical earth. Amplitude and phase of the ground wave are given for various combinations of the following parameters: frequency 1000, 100, and 20 kc; land conductivities 100 and 10 mmhos/meter; and a sea conductivity of 4 mhos/meter. Most of the curves exhibit the well-known recovery effect which occurs beyond the coast line for propagation from land towards the sea."
"The initial transient response of straight wires connected to coaxial lines is studied theoretically for the case where a pulse is applied to the coaxial line. The wave form of the return pulse is first found approximately for the case of a pulse of zero rise time. Since this does not correspond to any feasible experimental situation, the effect of a finite rise time is considered in detail. Numerical results are obtained for several special cases."
"An integral equation formulation is used to investigate potential problems associated with low-frequency scattering by both dielectric and perfectly conducting cylinders of rectangular cross section. Induced dipoles and scattering cross sections are obtained for 1) waves with\\bar{E}or\\bar{H}parallel to the axis, and 2) directions of propagation perpendicular and parallel to the broad side of the rectangle."
"A linear system is characterized in the abstract by a source vectora, a response vector\\alphaand a system matrixR, connected by\\alpha = Ra. Specific interpretations fora , \\alphaandRare given for electromagnetic fields, the scalar producta \\dot Rbbeing the reaction. The advantages of this method are illustrated by application to various problems. Mode expansions are defined by the eigenvector equationRm = C_{m}m,C_{m}being the eigenvalue andmthe mode source. This means the mode is generated by a combination of electric and magnetic sources which, apart from the constant multiplierC_{m}, are everywhere equal to the electric and magnetic fields, respectively. Such mode expansions are applied to typical waveguide problems. Waveguide theory is set up in terms of unit voltage and unit current mode sources,vandi, wherev \\dot v = 1 = i \\dot i. Then the definitions of waveguide current and voltage coincide with those for circuit theory, e.g., the mode current at cross sectionPis the reaction on a unit voltage source placed atP. The method also greatly simplifies scattering and antenna problems, such as the pattern of a monopole antenna which is immersed in a layer of gyrotropic plasma."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The transmission efficiency for power transmission between two identical circular apertures is considered. Each aperture is focused in a common focal plane which is located midway between them. The transmission efficiency is evaluated in terms of the percentage of the total energy flow through the focal plane which flows through a circular area of arbitrary radius, centered at the focal point and coincident with the focal plane. The results are used to estimate the diffraction error (leakage of energy around the phenomena to be observed) that arises when the focused beam system is used to probe a cylindrical ionized column in the focal plane. Kirchoff theory is used throughout, and perturbation of the focal field distribution due to the presence of the plasma is neglected. The effect of this perturbation has been analyzed theoretically and will be the subject of future papers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The computation of electromagnetic scattering from concentric spherical structures by means of the rigorously exact Mie series solution is discussed. Significant extension of existing numerical results is shown possible with a conventional program capable of handling problems involving 25 layers. Some aspects of the computation are briefly discussed indicating areas and techniques for improvement of accuracy. The results of three different problems are presented: a dielectric sphere, a dielectric shell spaced away from a central perfectly conducting sphere and both 5 and 10 discrete layer approximations to the Luneberg and Eaton-Lippmann radially-inhomogeneous spherical structures. The consideration of this computation technique is used to determine the efficacy of novel methods and approximations, and to indicate areas needing improved numerical analysis."
"The problem of the propagation of electromagnetic waves along a dielectric cylinder of elliptical cross section is considered. There exist two dominant waves which possess zero cutoff frequencies. The attenuation characteristics of these dominant waves are analyzed theoretically and experimentally. Good agreements are obtained. It is shown that one of the dominant waves, with its electric fields parallel at the center of the cylinder to the minor axis of the elliptical cylinder, can propagate along a flat dielectric strip with much lower loss than can theHE_{11}wave along a circular cylinder having the identical cross-sectional area."
"The problem of determining the fields scattered by a perfectly-conducting rectangular cylinder is reduced to the solution of an integral equation. This equation is then solved by digital computer methods. Data are given for surface currents, radiation patterns and scattering cross sections for bothE- andH-incident waves."
"The radiation fields of dipoles immersed in a semi-infinite dissipative medium are investigated. A method suggested by Lighthill for asymptotic evaluation of Fourier integrals is suitably modified to obtain solutions valid for large distances both in air and in the conducting medium. The advantages of this method are in its simplicity and ease of application. The results agree closely with those obtained earlier by Baños and Wesley."
"The satellite 1959 IOTA (Explorer VII) which emitted a signal on 19.991 Mc was used to measure the radiation pattern of a large multiple-beam antenna array (ISCAN) when it passed over the array. The experience gained in the improvised tests is projected into future, well-instrumented pattern measurements by means of a satellite designed for this purpose. It appears that the \"antenna calibration satellite\" envisioned has definite merits as well as limitations."
"Spatial variations of the index of refraction of the atmosphere introduce fluctuations in the phase and amplitude of a wave propagating through it. The effect of these fluctuations on the resolution capability of microwave antennas is discussed in this paper. The measure of resolution used in the calculations is the beamwidth, which is defined as the square root of the second moment about the mean of the normalized antenna pattern. This measure simplifies the calculations greatly and results in a simple expression for the beam broadening due to the variation of the refractive index. This broadening is dependent on the distance to the target, the scale of the turbulence, and the variance of the refractive index and is relatively insensitive to the shape of the spatial correlation function of the refractive index. Measurements by others of the nature of the refractive index spatial variation are then used to obtain numerical estimates of the ultimate resolution capability of a microwave antenna as limited by atmospheric turbulence."
"The effects on the radiation pattern whenNpairs of symmetrically located radiators are removed at random from a large(2N_{0}+1)-element linear array are studied as a statistical problem. It has been possible to determine the limiting bounds of the radiation pattern the probability that the main-lobe beamwidth is not widened by more than a given percentage, the probability that a certain sidelobe does not deteriorate by a specified amount and the probability that all sidelobes are below a specified level. The general analysis is valid for arrays with an arbitrary amplitude distribution which is symmetrical with respect to the center element and with an arbitrary progressive phase shift. Curves showing computed statistical data for a 201-element array with both the uniform and a cosine-squared amplitude distribution are presented."
"The rectangular cavity backed slot is excited by a current source connected across its center. The longitudinal voltage variation across the slot is obtained from the variational solution of an integral equation. For shallow and narrow cavities the slot appears inductive and the voltage is rapidly attenuated along the slots. The slot may resonate for deeper and/or wider cavities, when the voltage along the slot is approximated by a half-cycle of a sine wave. The resonant cavity depth and the antenna bandwidth are examined for various cavity and Slot parameters. Dielectric cavity loading is shown to decrease both the resonant cavity depth and the antenna bandwidth."
"Radiation pattern and gain of a corner reflector antenna finite in width are calculated by means of geometrical method for diffraction. The functionsF(T)sreferred to diffraction by the edges and their images are introduced. In the case of an aperture angle not equal to2\\pi /m(m: integer) a finite number of images of a dipole are considered, and the waves diffracted by the apex edge are introduced. The cases of aperture angles90\\deg,45\\degand115\\degare computed. The results are compared with the measured results obtained by Cottony and Wilson. In the forward and lateral directions agreements between both results are very good; however, in the rear direction it may be necessary to take into account the effects of the waves diffracted by the upper and lower edges of the reflector, when the length of the corner reflector is not too great."
"Solution for retarded vector potential due to a circular loop of current and perturbed by the presence of a permeable infinitely-long cylinder is derived from Maxwell's equations and the standard boundary conditions that the tangential component ofEis strictly continuous across the boundary, and the difference of the tangential components ofHon the boundary is equal to the true surface current. The geometry of the permeable core dictated the use of a circular cylindrical coordinate system for the problem. The dimensions of the current loop are assumed to be small, compared to the wavelengths of the field quantities involved, to justify the assumption of uniform current density throughout the loop. It has been shown that the resultant potential consists of two parts: one part is due to the loop only; and the other part is due to the presence of the permeable core. Using the expressions for the retarded vector potential, the Poynting vector and the rate of energy outflow have been calculated. The power outflow has been evaluated using a computer for certain sets of parameters. The method as to how similar procedure could be used to obtain solution for a prolate spheroidal core has been indicated."
"One of the important factors affecting the efficiency of parabolic reflector antennas is the degree to which the surface of the reflector deviates from the true parabolic shape. For a given reflector surface it is also important to locate the focal point of the best-fit paraboloid relative to the existing feed support structure. A simple method is presented for making these measurements, and results are given for a particular 60-ft diameter reflector. Static measurements were made with the antenna axis pointed vertically upwards, and changes were also measured as a function of elevation angle and wind. When the surface errors have a Gaussian distribution relative to the focal point, simple theory indicates that the received power relative to that from a perfect reflecting surface isP/P_{0} = \\exp -(2\\pi \\sigma / \\lambda)^{2}where\\sigmais the standard deviation of the surface errors and\\lambdais the operating wavelength."
"The input admittance of a small thin-wire circular loop antenna, driven by a slice generator, immersed in a dissipative medium, is considered. It is found that the solution given by Storer for the loop antenna in a lossless medium can be carded over readily by replacing\\zeta_{0}by\\zeta, andk_{0}byk. The numerical values of the normalized input conductance and input susceptance of a small loop antenna, namely\\beta b \\leq 0.3,\\Omega = 10, are calculated. It is to be noted that the input susceptance is practically independent ofkwhile the input conductance changes as much as seventeen times in this special case."
"The fields of a dipole in a semi-infinite conducting medium are discussed and experimental verification of theoretical approximations presented. From these results, concepts and criteria are developed to determine optimum, subsurface antenna configurations. Impedance and mutual coupling properties of such antennas are discussed in the companion paper appearing in this issue of these TRANSACTIONS, entitled, \"Impedance Properties of Large Subsurface Antenna Arrays.\""
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper describes a simple method for determining the effective conductivity of a relatively flat conducting earth at ELF. The method is based on the quasi-static approximations to the Hertz vector potential for both the vertical and horizontal magnetic dipole. From these approximations, expressions for the magnetic field are obtained. By taking the ratio of the vertical component to the horizontal component, a simple relation is obtained for conductivity which is independent of the magnetic dipole moment. The relation is also independent of the source and receiver height provided they are located near the boundary."
"An account is given of a theoretical investigation of radio wave propagation in a rock medium situated below a highly conducting plane boundary overburden, due to a vertically polarized electric dipole source immersed in the rock near the boundary. Excluded from this discussion are propagation modes in the rock guided between plane boundaries on top and bottom. Just as with dipoles in air above a plane ground, the rock wave can be considered as the result of a \"direct wave,\" a wave \"reflected'' from the overburden and an \"interface surface wave.\" Rock with complex phase constantk_{1}replaces air with real phase constant\\beta_{0}. Of interest is the variation with depth below the boundary of the fields in the rock, analogous to \"height gain\" for fields in air. Of importance is the effect of the relative refractive index of overburden-to-rock. A sample calculation is given for a one-mile path assuming typical electrical constants for the rock and overburden media. At the VLF of interest, loss tangents in the media are large. These results may assist in determining whether or not a received signal is due predominantly to a rock propagated wave or to a possible \"up-over-and-down\" mode."
"A radio technique is described for obtaining an estimate of the electrical properties of rock media below the earth's surface when there exist access drill holes which penetrate well into such media. The technique is that of measuring the depth attenuation rate of the field between transmitting and receiving antennas as their separation is varied. Experiments conducted with both transmitting and receiving antennas situated in a drill hole within the rock are described. Measurements were made with small vertically polarized antennas located in the lower rock portions of 1000-foot drill holes on Cape Cod, Mass. An example of results obtained at frequencies near 150 kc is given. Antenna separation distances of up to about 500 feet were used. The method yields reasonably well-defined values of conductivity for a single frequency when the loss tangent is large."
"A two-layer stratified model is assumed for the earth. The distances involved are assumed to be sufficiently short that the earth can be considered flat. The measurement of the parameters of the top layer can easily be made from the surface, but the parameters of the lower layer are somewhat more difficult. A method is given for the evaluation of these quantifies in terms of measurements of propagation between two antennas located at the surface of the earth. The theoretical solution for the field of an antenna located at the surface of a flat stratified earth has been given by J. R. Wait. This solution is taken as the starting point; it is put into a form which explicitly shows the influence of the parameters of the lower layer. The method of least squares is then used to evaluate the unknown parameters in terms of the measurements. This process allows the use of a large number of measurements which are essentially subjected to an averaging procedure. This prevents localized irregularities in the earth's surface from unduly affecting the results."
"Geological and geophysical considerations applicable to radio propagation through the rock strata at the basement complex are presented. Information on electrical characteristics of rocks based on laboratory measurements on samples is shown to be misleading because in situ conditions are very difficult to analyze and reproduce. The complexity of the basement geology adds to the difficulty of predicting in situ rock characteristics pertinent to radio propagation. Folding and fracturing of the strata, variegated rock types and the anistropy of rock resistivity cause the actual propagation path loss to be vastly different than that predicted on the basis of a simple geological model. This conclusion is supported by the available experimental data. Deep resistivity measurements made from the surface indicate that basement strata will have resistivities of the order of10^{3}-10^{4}ohm-meters over most of the United States."
"Vertical electriczand horizontal magnetic rms noise field intensifies have recently been measured by the authors over the frequency range of 30 cps to 50 kc for all seasons of the year and for all time blocks. This data is combined with that of other workers in the field to present the natural noise density spectra from 1 cps to 100 kc for central United States regions. The portion of the data between 10 and 100 kc is found to be in close agreement with CCIR Report 65, \"Revision of Atmospheric Radio Noise Data\" [1]. Seasonal and diurnal variations at these locations are seen to become small below 1 kc. In addition to rms data, the authors measured the peak envelope occurring within 5-minute time intervals in a 7-cps bandwidth. Under certain conditions, rapid changes in the peak envelope to rms dynamic range were noted between 3 and 8 kc. This phenomenon is discussed with respect to source characteristics and propagation."
"Resistivities in the earth's crust have been evaluated by direct observation using dipole-dipole resistivity soundings and magnetotelluric resistivity methods, supplemented by laboratory measurements of the electrical properties of appropriate rock types at elevated temperatures. Assuming a three-layer crustal model, the field observations indicate an attenuation of one to ten decibels per kilometer in the resistant middle layer. It is pointed out, however, that the resistivities in this zone are biased toward the lower side. Higher resistivities are expected on the basis of the laboratory experiments and if they occur to any significant extent, lower transmission losses would be obtained than are predicted by the field measurements."
"The problem considered is that of determining the complex propagation constant of a plane wave on a flat layer of lossy dielectric with a loss-tangent of less than one, and of uniform thickness, surrounded on both sides by identical layers having a loss-tangent greater than one, and thicknesses much larger than the skin depth. A formula given, relates this propagation constant to the path loss between two antennas provided their excitation efficiencies are known. As an example, curves showing attenuation and wavelength are given for the following properties of the layers: Middle layer =\\sigma = 10^{-6}(ohm meter){-1},\\epsilon_{r} = 10, \\mu_{r} = 1. Surrounding layers =\\simga = 10^{-2}(ohm meter){-1},\\epsilon_{r} = 10,\\mu_{r} = 1. Frequencies between 1 kc and 10 Mc are covered, as well as values on thickness of the meddle layers ranging from 10 m-200 m. (The computations were performed under the direction of John Nihen)."
"Radio-wave propagation at very low frequencies (VLF) in the stratified rock below the bottom of the sea is studied. A reasonable assumption of extremely low electrical conductivity in the stratified rock is based upon available geological data. The surface wave traveling along the interface between this region of low conductivity and the highly conducting sea is compared with the vertically polarized ground wave found in VLF radio-wave propagation at the surface of the earth. When extremely low frequencies (ELF) are transmitted, the highly conducting layer found at greater depths below the bottom of the sea forms the lower surface of a spherical waveguide. This waveguide at ELF supports a propagation mode similar to the mode existing at VLF between the surface of the earth and the lower boundary of the ionosphere. The similarity in propagation mechanisms leads to the name \"inverted ionosphere\" (described by Wheeler [1]) for the underground region. The sea or relatively highly conducting soil at the surface of the earth is an almost impregnable shield against atmospheric noise and effects from sudden ionospheric disturbances or solar flares. In addition to providing a noise-free medium, the sea has the advantage that construction costs are much less than those of a VLF transmitter at the earth's surface. Presumably communication between shore installations and submarines on the floor of the ocean could be achieved with the inverse ionosphere. The power requirement for such communication with existing VLF transmitters at the earth's surface renders such transmission unattainable."
"A natural waveguide for electromagnetic waves may exist in the earth's crust. Choosing an idealized model, the attenuation in such a guide is calculated under more or less optimum conditions. By choosing certain dimensionless parameters the results may have rather broad applications to problems of this type."
"This paper gives the transient electric field response to an electric current element in an infinite linear homogeneous isotropic medium for all values of the parameterb = r\\sigma \\sqrt{\\mu/\\epsilon}upon which its shape depends. It is shown that the response cannot be separated into that resulting from 1) the charge, 2) the current, and 3) its derivative whenbis appreciably different from zero. The initial response occurs at the timet = q = r \\sqrt{\\epsilon \\mu}. The radial component of the field is a monotonically increasing function of time approaching a constant asymptote. Its initial value has a maximum of 0.7358 times its final value atb = 2. The shape of the transient changes radically atb = 2. For values ofb > 20the initial value is negligible and the response is closely approximated by the asymptotic expression forblarge. The tangential component approaches its constant asymptote from larger values. For smallbthe maximum occurs whentis large. The tangential component is approximately the same as the radial component forb < \\frac{1}{2}. For larger values ofbthe maximum occurs at earlier times, occurring whent = qfor2.243 < b < 6.600. It has its maximum initial value of 1.692 times its final value forb = 5.043. For values ofb>6.6the maximum occurs at increasingly later times. Forb>24the initial value is negligible and the response is approximated by the asymptotic expression forblarge. Curves are given for the response not only as a function of time for various values ofbbut also as a function ofbfor various times. Comparison of experiments with these curves will allow the determination ofband, hence, the conductivity. The response is also given as a function of distance for various times. The Bessel function integral involved in this problem has been evaluated and presented in the form of curves for all values ofband all values oftfor which it makes an appreciable contribution to the result."
"This paper gives the results of a theoretical and experimental study of the characteristics of antennas in lossy environments, such as antennas buried in the earth or sea. The results of experiments to determine the input impedance of and current distribution on wires of different sizes, insulating thicknesses, depths and environments are summarized and compared to a simple theory. A figure of merit called relative communication efficiency (RCE) for submerged antennas is defined. A table of formulas for RCE of common antenna types is presented and the theoretical results are compared to experimental values obtained by field strength measurements."
"An electric dipole is immersed in a semi-infinite conducting medium with its axis inclined to the normal of the surface. The radiation fields of the dipole are derived for theznonconducting region above the surface. A ground wave near the surface and a space wave above it are derived from the evaluation of the integrals by the saddle point method. The field expressions for these waves have an exponential attenuation depending upon skin and immersion depths. The angle of inclination of the dipole is treated as the principal variable in analysis of the radiation fields. Radiation patterns are presented for the space wave and the ground wave. The variables include conductivity, immersion depth and the inclination angle."
"This paper discusses four methods of electrical communication within the earth's crust. Mode I may be described as similar to propagation over the ground, except that the rock dielectric substitutes for air as the propagation medium and the under surface of the overburden takes the place of the earth's surface. Mode II results when theQof the propagating medium is small so that the antennas must be modified, which also results in a modification of the propagation formulas. Two other modes are considered for conditions where the depth to the good dielectric basement rock is prohibitive. Mode III is indicated when the overburden is a highly conducting layer. It makes use of \"dc signaling\" with vertical antennas extending below the surface layer. Mode IV is indicated when the overburden is so thin that it does not provide an effective conducting plane. It makes use of \"dc signaling\" with the antennas consisting of a pair of vertical conductors insulated from the thin layer of higher conductivity, but making contact with the medium of intermediate conductivity, hence, generating a horizontally polarized wave. Distances and information rates are given for these modes under various propagation conditions."
"Expressions for the total power flow from a vertical oscillating magnetic dipole and a horizontal electric dipole are employed to determine the input resistances of both types of antennas placed above a homogeneous and isotropic ground. Theoretical curves of the input resistance are drawn for the two cases as a function of the normalized height of the antenna above the ground for fixed values of the permittivity and the ratio of conduction and displacement currents. The input resistance is affected appreciably when the conductivity is altered only by a factor of ten. The curves show marked changes with change in permittivity when the displacement current is not negligible compared to the conduction current. The ratio of the height of the antenna above the ground to the radiated wavelength should be kept smaller than 0.3 to obtain any appreciable variation of the input resistance with changes in either the conductivity or the permittivity. Factors determining a judicious choice of the height and the wavelength are discussed. A comparison between a horizontal electric dipole and a vertical magnetic dipole is made, so far as their input resistances are concerned."
"The paper is intended as a link between the abstruse boundary value problem solutions and the systems engineer. A brief bibliographic review of the boundary problem is given, followed by a discussion of the several approximate solutions and their regions of validity. The propagation path, for almost all practical applications, consists of an evanescent wave from the transmitting antenna to the surface where a conventional Norton surface wave is excited. Part of the wave energy leaks into the lossy medium, thus reaching the receiving antenna. Merit factors are given for three types of antennas: loops and dipoles in insulating radomes, and an insulated long wire with end electrodes. A particularly useful merit factor, relative gain, which relates vertically polarized power per unit solid angle over the surface to total input power, is defined. The long wire is shown to be appreciably superior to loops or dipoles. Among the latter two, superiority depends on the relative sizes of radome, skin depth and wavelength. A simplified physical model is presented wherein the fields of the long wire are derived from a vertical quadripole of conduction current. Due to the low mutual impedance between antennas in lossy media, some array gain can be realized without concomitant beam sharpening."
"The electromagnetic field of a dipole antenna immersed in a homogeneous isotropic dissipative medium is studied theoretically and experimentally. Expressions are obtained for the electric and magnetic fields both near and far in terms of currents and admittances that are more accurate than in conventional formulations. The elliptically polarized field near a half-wave dipole is evaluated theoretically and compared with experimental measurements over a wide range of values of attenuation."
"Analysis of antennas immersed in conducting media is, in many ways, quite different from the corresponding analysis for antennas in air. The usual simple techniques applied for determining radiation resistance for antennas in the air break down for antennas in conducting media. The normal concepts of antenna gain and antenna pattern break down when the antenna is in a conducting medium. The pattern, for example, becomes highly dependent upon the choice of the origin of the coordinate system. These effects are due to the dissipation of most of the energy in the immediate vicinity of the antenna. Such dissipation is caused by the fields which, for antennas in air, are associated with stored, but not dissipated, energy. The primary purpose of this paper is to illustrate failure of standard antenna analysis techniques when the antennas are in conducting media. Surprisingly, the biconical antenna, whose input impedance requires rather extensive calculations in air, turns out to be extremely simple to analyze in a conducting medium. A discussion of this is presented to show how an analysis can be simplified by the presence of the conducting medium. Comparison of a redefined gain for the biconical, loop, and two forms of straight wire antennas, indicates that there is very little difference between the gains of the different configurations provided the sizes are approximately the same. Although the loop antenna is considered only for dimensions small compared with the wavelength, no such limitation is placed on the other antennas."
"Mutual couplings among subsurface antenna elements having various types of current distribution and depths are presented in this paper. The results of theoretical analysis have been correlated with those obtained from simulation experiments."
"The radial electric fields of horizontal dipoles in a semi-infinite dissipative medium are studied using the asymptotic expansion of a single dipole. An arrangement similar to an end-fire pattern of two broadside arrays in an infinite medium is used to investigate the possibility of obtaining a directed beam in the desired direction. After some important modifications, motivated by the nature of propagation in the medium, a suitable arrangement is found to give a directed beam."
"Impedance and current distribution expressions of dipole elements in a large subsurface antenna array are derived and compared with experimental data. The analysis assumes an array immersed in a semi-infinite, homogeneous conducting medium with a large loss tangent. The results are presented in generalized form which facilitates the determination of mutual coupling and optimum spacing between identical array elements."
"A laboratory size model of the flat earth-air (two-layer) problem, constructed to verify certain proposed theories on electromagnetic propagation through the sea, is described. The modeling system is used in scaling and measuring electromagnetic field components of electric or magnetic antennas submerged in sea water. Specifically, the experimental results are compared with the theory of radiation from a horizontal electric dipole antenna submerged in the sea. The results presented here verify that 1) the cyclindrical coordinateE_{r}, andE_{\\phi}field components measured in the sea vary with radial distance from the antenna as\\rho^{-3}in the near-zone and\\rho^{-1}and\\rho^{-2}, respectively, in the far-zone; 2) all field components vary with depth,z, as exp (-z/\\delta), where\\deltais skin depth; 3) theE_{r}, andE_{\\phi}components vary with\\phias\\cos \\phiand\\sin \\phi, respectively; 4) all field components vary linearly with lengthland dipole current,I. In addition, theH_{\\phi},H_{r}, andE_{z}components were measured in the air as a function of\\rhofor the static-zone, near-zone, and far-zone. The modeling system representing the sea includes a cylindrical tank 11.5 feet in diameter, 2-feet deep, containing a salt solution of 4 mhos/meter conductivity. The transmitting frequency varied from 100 to 400 Mc. For submerged antennas that can be validly scaled at least10^{-2}in size and10^{+4}in frequency, this model can conveniently be used to verify experimentally the radiation characteristics of these antennas."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The problem of predicting refraction errors in a nonsymmetric, inhomogeneous atmospheric refractive index distribution is examined, utilizing the basic (vector) differential equation of a ray path. The simplifications made in the basic equation are based on known atmospheric refraction characteristics in conjunction with the limitations inherent in obtaining distributions over a wide region which are valid for a given time. The assumptions made are 1)n \\doteq 1, 2) total bending is small, and 3) the gradient ofnalong the ray path is approximately the same as the gradient ofnalong the straight line in the launch direction. A fourth assumption, not mathematically necessary but useful in analyzing actual situations, is that the gradient ofnmay be described by regions of constant gradient. The first three assumptions allow the general three-dimensional ray path to be computed in terms of its two plane-ray projections; the fourth assumption yields a mathematically simple solution for each path."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The equations and the notation for the analysis of arrays of discrete elements located on the surface of a sphere axe derived and discussed. Methods are also given for finding the coordinates of the far field points needed to calculate the antenna pattern that would be observed in a plane chosen to pass through the main beam. Such patterns would be observed if a spherical array were mounted on the usual antenna turntables currently available."
"This paper presents the results of a study undertaken to determine the electrical characteristics of a base-driven inductively loaded monopole, shorter than self-resonant length, oriented normal to an infinite perfectly conducting ground screen. The antenna may be tuned by a combination of two lumped coils of finiteQ. One is in series with the generator at the base; the other is in series with the antenna conductor some distance above the feed point. In some installations the use of two loading inductors may be a convenience in that this arrangement permits final tuning adjustments to be made at the base of the antenna. Sufficient information is available to permit determination of the reactance of the lossy loading coils to achieve resonance, the voltage rise across the coils, the impedance presented to the generator, and the antenna efficiency in the absence of antenna ohmic and ground system losses. Simple ancillary studies, as proposed by an illustrative example, permit decisions to be made regarding the merit of a particular inductively loaded monopole of small dimensions in terms of the operating wavelength-whether the application is for VLF transmission from a shore radio station, or for transmission from a moving motor vehicle at shorter wavelengths. An interesting by-product of the present analysis is a formula for the impedance of a monopole grounded at its base, and driven some distance above the earth plane."
"In this paper the problem of the shadow region radiation of reflectors with circular apertures is examined. The approach is based on an extension of the aperture method of calculating antenna patterns. Using this extended aperture method and assuming that the reflector is an absorbing screen, the shadow region pattern within small angles from the axis of the reflector is determined. These methods are applicable only to cases where the wavelength is small with respect to the dimensions of the reflector. The main conclusions are the following: the shadow region field is primarily dependent on the illuminating field which is present on the outer edges of the reflector. For a uniform illumination the front to back ratio is of the order of[(2\\pi/\\lambda)\\rho]^{2}(where\\lambdais the wavelength and\\rhothe radius of the aperture)."
"The active adaptive antenna array system (AAAAS) is a self-focusing antenna array. Phase-lock loop-type circuits are used to automatically adjust the phases of signals received on the elemental antennas of the array so that the received signals can all be added in phase or coherently. The AAAAS is active in that it automatically searches for, locks onto and tracks a source. Furthermore, the system 1) is adaptive to changes in antenna spacing, 2) is adaptive to changes in signal level and noise spectral density, 3) uses the incoming signal to automatically and electronically collimate the antenna array beam and 4) can have its aperture amplitude distribution readily changed. A theoretical study and detailed description of two particular configurations of the AAAAS is given. The theory of operation of the system has been experimentally verified on a simulated system in which audio frequencies were used."
"The scattered field from a hyperboloidal reflector is calculated by integrating the induced current density over the front of the hyperboloid. The resulting integral expressions for the fields possess a stationary term which, when evaluated, yields the geometrical ray-optics approximation to the scattering problem. The complete field, including diffraction effects, may be obtained by numerical evaluation of the integrals. The formulas are applied to a hyperboloid illuminated by an idealized, sharply cut off uniform feed pattern. Characteristic diffraction phenomena are reduced with increasingD/\\lambdauntil the geometrical ray-optics result is obtained in the limit of vanishing wavelength. Theoretical field patterns are also obtained for a horn-fed hyperboloidal subreflector in a Cassegrainian feed system; they indicate that for moderately large hyperboloidal reflectors spillover may be reduced to an acceptable level, but there is a tendency toward increased forward spillover. The results of 9600-Mc model tests compare favorably with the theoretical patterns."
"Modifications are made on log-spiral structures with the view of obtaining a larger class of frequency independent antennas. Measurements taken on some of the structures give desirable results."
"The field along the axis of a spherical reflector is determined from the geometry of the system rather than from each term of the aberration taken separately. The procedure shows how the field distribution changes from the case of small aberration, where there is a well-defined focus, to the geometric optics limit. A spherical reflector becomes an efficient antenna when a set of feed elements is located along the axis to reduce the effects of spherical aberration. The number and position of these elements is dictated by the size and curvature of the reflector and the allowable distortion of the wavefront."
"An end-fire flush antenna is made according to the principles of a branch-waveguide directional coupler, substituting open space for one of the waveguides. The remaining waveguide is partially filled with dielectric to make its internal wavelength equal to the free-space wavelength. Each radiating slot is a quarter-wave branch-waveguide whose thickness, relative to that of the main waveguide, controls the amount of radiation in a predictable manner that is noncritical as to frequency. AnX-band model with 40 slots has demonstrated the predicted gain of 19 db above an isotropic radiator, with sidelobe suppression exceeding 25 db and rearward suppression exceeding 35 db. The antenna lends itself to flush installation, making it particularly useful for aircraft and spacecraft applications."
"A line source of magnetic currents is located in a half space with uniaxially anisotropic dielectric constant, with the optic axis inclined at an arbitrary angle to the interface. This two-dimensional, scalar diffraction problem is solved by Fourier integral techniques, and the solution is examined in the asymptotic range of large distance from the source. The radiation field comprises incident, reflected and refracted ray contributions whose properties are determined from a study of the refractive index curves for the medium. In addition, there may exist a lateral wave which is excited by a critically refracted incident ray, and which sheds energy back into the anisotropic medium by refraction. If the medium is a plasma with an externally impressed infinite dc magnetic field, and if the source oscillates below the plasma frequency, there exist shadow regions from which the direct and reflected rays are excluded but which can be penetrated by the lateral waves."
"If one transmits an electromagnetic wave, an electric field is set up in space. The earth's surface modifies the field and an interference pattern results. To calculate such a pattern one must know the reflection characteristics of the surface for the polarization of the incident wave. These are known for linear polarizations. Since a circularly polarized wave is a combination of the two linear polarizations, we can compute the reflection coefficient for circular polarizations by proper combination of the two linear reflection coefficients. This reflection coefficient is known for smooth sea conditions. In this paper the vector model of reflectivity for a rough sea is extended to include circular polarization. Reflection coefficients for the rough sea case are derived. Analytical expressions are given for the total received signal including the coherent and incoherent components. Receiver antenna polarizations of the same and opposite senses to that of the transmitter are considered."
"An experimental, 1.2 mile long working model of a short-wave receiving antenna with 14 fixed stacked \"beams,\" named Inertialess Steerable Communication Antenna (ISCAN), is described briefly. The performance of the antenna under varying ionospheric propagation conditions was determined in preliminary tests which utilized HF pulses transmitted across the Atlantic. It is concluded that an ISCAN type antenna used in conjunction with electronic computer circuits for making a rapid choice of the beam affording a minimum number of simultaneously received propagation modes and, therefore, a minimum signal-element elongation, should make it possible at least to double the communication rates now available on most HF circuits operated well below MUF, or to reduce the error rate significantly. Marked interference reduction should sometimes be possible."
"This paper describes a method for measuring the backscattering cross section of an arbitrary target using FM radar techniques. This method has a merit that it does not require a nonreflecting background behind the target, by the use of a high selective amplifier in the FM radar. The principles of this measuring method and the results of the measurements are described."
"Waveguiding properties of a homogeneous circular column of plasma imbedded in free space are examined in the two limits of zero and large axial magnetic field. The plasma is assumed to be cold and collisionless with ion motion neglected. The modes with azimuthal variation are included in the investigation, and dispersion curves are presented. For the zero field case the higher-order modes are found under certain conditions to exhibit backward-wave characteristics. For the case of large magnetic field, the occurrence of unique waveguiding features is discussed. The assumptions made are approximated by certain laboratory plasmas and hence the results may be of practical importance."
"The scattering of a plane electromagnetic wave by a perfectly conducting semi-infinite screen embedded in a homogeneous plasma is investigated. A uniform magnetic field is assumed to be impressed externally in a direction parallel to the edge of the half plane. The plasma is idealized to be a dielectric characterized by a tensor dielectric constant. The direction of the incident wave is assumed to be in a plane perpendicular to that of the screen. This vector problem is separable into two equivalent scalar problems for which either the electric or the magnetic vector is parallel to the edge of the half plane. It is found that for the case of theEmode, the magnetic vector parallel to the edge of the half plane satisfies a simple wave equation and a new type of impedance boundary condition on the screen. This problem is formulated in terms of an integral equation which specifies the current induced on the screen. The integral equation is of the Wiener-Hopf type and is solved by the usual function-theoretic methods. For a given orientation of the external magnetic field, a surface wave is found to exist along the screen but on one side only. The characteristics of this surface wave are determined."
"A formula is derived for the radar cross section of solid-wire, tubular, and strip chaff of finite conductivity approximating one-half wavelength or less in length. The results obtained may be summarized as follows: 1) The back-scattering cross section for parallel polarization of solid-wire chaff of nonvanishing internal impedance per unit length is not significantly affected by a reduction in the conductivity of the constituent metal provided the conductor is not too thin. 2) Tubular chaff having a wall thickness less than a skin depth has a greater back-scattering cross section than strip chaff of the same thickness. 3) Strip chaff consisting of vacuum deposited aluminum on mylar, when the coating thickness is small compared to the skin depth, has an extremely small radar cross section and its use should be avoided."
"An optimum aperture distribution for pattern shaping by a continuous line source of arbitrary length is derived in terms of the functions most natural to a least-squares fit: the eigenfunctions of the finite Fourier transform. It is expressed as an explicit function of Taylor's superdirective ratio\\gamma. The new distribution produces the best mean-square approximation to a specified radiation pattern that is possible to obtain from an aperture of a given length for a given value of the superdirective ratio. The best mean-square pattern approximation is shown to be represented exactly by the orthogonal expansionP(\\frac{\\pi a}{\\lambda} \\sin \\theta) = \\sum \\min{n=0} \\max{\\infty} a_{n}S_{0n}(c,\\sin \\theta), and the resulting optimum aperture distribution bya(\\frac{2x}{a}) = \\sum \\min{n=0} \\max{infty} \\frac {\\pi i^{-n}} {R_{0n}^{(1)}(c,1)} a_{n}S_{0n}(c,\\frac{2x}{a}), where the eigenfunctionsS_{0n}(c, \\eta)of the finite Fourier transform are the angular prolate spheroidal wave functions,R_{0n}^{(1)}(c, 1)are the radial prolate spheroidal wave functions evaluated at unity,ais the aperture length,c=\\pi a/\\lambdaand the expansion coefficientsa_{n}area_{n} = \\frac{b_{n}}{1+\\mu(\\lambda_{n}^{-1}-\\gamma)};b_{n}are the expansion coefficients of the given radiation pattern, the eigenvalues\\lambda_{n}are(2c/\\pi) [R_{0n}^{(1)} (c, 1)]^{2},\\muis a unique positive number satisfying\\sum \\min{n=0}\\max{\\infty}\\frac{\\frac{k_n}|b_{n}|^{2}} {\\lambda_{n}^{-1}-\\gamma}} {(\\mu + \\frac{1}{\\gamma_{n}^{-1}-\\gamma)^{2}}=0, andk_{n}is the normalization factor for the eigenfunctions on (-1, 1). The pattern approximation is determined largely by the first(2a/\\lambda)+1terms of its expansion, beyond which the expansion converges quickly for practical values of the superdirective ratio."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method of HF ionospheric forecasting and analysis suitable for digital computers is discussed. The particular parameters which may be computed are the maximum usable frequency (MUF), the optimum traffic frequency (FOT), the lowest useful high frequency (LUF), and the lowest required radiated power (LRRP). Other parameters may be deduced with only slight modification of the basic program. All of the principles and analytical expressions necessary to program a computer are included."
"The driving-point admittance and the amplitude and phase distributions of the current referred to the driving-point were measured for an insulated cylindrical antenna immersed in a conducting medium. The ratio\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}of the conducting medium was varied from\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}= 0.036to 8.8, a range which includes a variety of media such as poor insulators, the ionosphere, plasmas, dry earth, wet earth, lake water and sea water. The antenna height\\beta hin radians was varied from\\beta h=0.1through\\beta h=2\\piat intervals of 0.1. The thickness of the insulator was varied fromb/a = 1.25tob/a = 12.0whereais the radius of the antenna andbthe radius of the insulator. Measurements have also been made of the admittance, current and phase distributions along an insulated antenna with a conductive top load, that is, one whose tip is in direct contact with the conducting medium. It is found that when the tip of the antenna is in direct contact with the conducting medium, the current increases almost linearly as the end of the antenna is approached. This is quite unlike the decaying sinusoidal distribution on the completely insulated antenna. In a general sense, the experimental results are in fair agreement with an approximate theoretical expression for the admittance of an insulated antenna immersed in a highly conducting solution. The approximate theory is based on the driving-point admittance of a coaxial line whose outer conductor is imperfectly conducting and infinite in extent."
"The effect of absorbers on scattering from complex shapes is considered, wherein, unlike previous work on the subject, the diffracted field is taken into account. For a general class of scattering bodies two new theorems are introduced which give conditions under which the back-scattered field for incident radiation is identically zero. High-frequency scattering from any smooth convex body is examined. The conditions given in the theorems are then used to determine their effect on the creeping waves. It is shown that the creeping waves suffer much greater attenuation than they would if the body were a perfectly conducting surface. The particular case for nose-on back-scattering from a body of revolution is considered, for which case the creeping wave contribution to the back-scattered field is identically zero due to phase cancellation. It is then shown that absorbers with highly refractive lossy characteristics will reduce the back-scattered cross section for smooth convex bodies in the resonance region."
"The author wishes to amplify Christiansen's recent communication [P.L. Christiansen, \"On the closed form of the array factor for linear arrays,\" IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Prop. (Commun.), vol. AP-11, p. 198, March, 1963.] on the use of Z-transform theory for obtaining a closed form for the array polynomial of linear antenna arrays. He is convinced that his proposed approach provides a concise and convenient way for linear array analysis, and his new results will be useful. In his communication Christiansen stressed that the Z-transform approach does not require that the envelope function of the current distribution be periodic, nor is the approach limited to envelope functions with a linear phase relation. That a unit gate function could be used in cases where the amplitude envelope is not representable by a periodic function was pointed out previously by the present author [1960]. Christiansen gave the array factor of a very complicated amplitude distribution function without showing the intermediate steps. In an effort to clarify the situation, two examples are provided that may prove to be helpful to interested readers."
"Radar cross sections for a variety of spherical and cylindrical scatterers having homogeneous dielectric or plasma shells are obtained by using both the exact boundary value solutions and approximate, semi-empirical methods based on physical principles. The plasma is assumed to have the macroscopic properties of a lossless dielectric with a permittivity less than that of free space. A superposition approximation for the radar cross section of a dielectric coated conducting body is obtained by considering the scattered field to be the phasor sum of two principal components, the field scattered by the air-dielectric interface and the field scattered by an equivalent conducting body which differs from the actual body because of the lens action of the shell. This approximation yields very good agreement with the exact solutions for both spherical and cylindrical dielectric clad scatterers with radii in the Rayleigh region and in the resonant region, and for bistatic scattering as well as for backscatter. The echo area of a conducting sphere with nonconcentric spherical dielectric shell calculated by means of the superposition approximation is in excellent agreement with experimental measurements, thus demonstrating the validity of this method in a case for which the exact solution cannot be obtained."
"The scattering of a plane electromagnetic wave of wave-numberkby a perfectly conducting infinite strip of width2ais investigated for the case in which the surrounding medium is gyroelectric. The gyroelectric axis is assumed to be parallel to the edges of the strip. The problem is formulated in terms of an integral equation whose solution is obtained in the form of a series in powers ofka. Expressions for the far-zone fields and the first two terms in the series for the total scattering cross section are obtained."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The electromagnetic waves in a homogeneous, drifting, general, linear, anisotropic Tellegen medium are evaluated in terms of the electric and magnetic current density sources. The fields are shown to be expressible in terms of the characteristic waves of the medium. The solution is in agreement with the particular cases for a nondrifting medium worked out originally by Bunkin."
"The 2-, 4- and 6-arm planar spiral antennas were excited by various feeding arrangements, and the pattern, phase variation and polarization of their fields were measured. It was found that the modes predicted by the solution of the infinitely-many-arms spiral antenna could be excited by spiral antennas that had only a small number of arms. In particular, we succeeded in exciting the \"unpreferred\" mode of the spiral antenna. Measurements also showed that in addition to the main mode of the spiral antenna, the field also contains higher order modes, which actually dominate the main mode in certain regions."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Antenna patterns with ultra-low sidelobes have been obtained for an experimental receiving array designed with time-modulated slot radiators. The technique utilizes on-off RF switches which are programmed in a predetermined sequence to produce the desired pattern. The results of tests on an experimental eight-element slot array designed for sidelobe reduction are presented. Two examples are considered: 1) an initial static pattern with 30-db sidelobes which are reduced to about 40 db by sequential switching and 2) an initial static pattern with 13-db sidelobes which are reduced directly to about 40 db by a different sequence of switching. Measured patterns illustrating the sidelobe reduction are included. The applicability of the sidelobe reduction technique to large electronically steerable phased arrays is considered briefly and it is concluded that it is compatible with such systems."
"The radiation from elementary dipoles in a magnetoionic medium and in the presence of a grounded gyroelectric plasma slab has been studied. The problems are formulated by using the Fourier-transform technique. Solutions which are valid everywhere can be expressed only in integral forms. Asymptotic solutions for the far field are obtained by the saddle-point method. In the case of an infinite medium, the far field has been found to be composed of a number of waves propagating in different directions with unequal phase and group velocities. Each component wave has been arranged in the form of a characteristic plane wave pertinent to the medium, its direction of power flow being shown to be radial. In the case of the slab problem, the space wave has been found to be generally elliptically polarized. This is due to the characteristic of a plasma-free space interface which, except for some particular cases, has the property of coupling the two characteristic plane waves in both media. The radiation patterns are markedly influenced by the thickness of the plasma slab and the relative frequencies\\omega_{c}/\\omegaand\\omega_{p}/\\omegaof the plasma medium."
"Studies relating to transients in cylindrical transmitting and receiving antennas generally require knowledge of both the steady-state effective length and impedance of these structures over a wide frequency range. A table for the complex radian effective half-length of cylindrical antennas less than 1.3\\lambdalong, when the incident electric field is polarized parallel to the axis of the conductor, is provided in this paper."
"The propagation of the ground-wave pulse between points on the ground is of considerable practical importance, particularly in the application of the Loran-C navigation system to the absolute time synchronization of geographically separated clocks. Thus, the envelope of the pulse is frequently used to remove ambiguities which would otherwise result from the pulse synchronization at the characteristic or carrier frequency of the pulse. The propagation of the ground wave over finitely conducting ground modifies the propagation time of the tagged point-in-time on the envelope by amounts which may be sufficiently large as to cause cycle ambiguity\\pm \\piradians at the carrier or characteristic frequency of the pulse. It is therefore the purpose of this paper to investigate the magnitude of this error by ascertaining the true signal velocity as determined by tagging a point-in-time on the leading edge of a groundwave pulse and calculating the time corrections for various ground conductivities and distances. These calculations can then be applied to resolve the\\pm \\piradians ambiguity of the precision phase velocity instrumentation for Loran-C especially when the system is used for absolute-time synchronization."
"In this paper the radiation patterns of antenna arrays consisting of dipoles coupled electromagnetically to a two-wire transmission line are reported. The numerical calculation was made on an IBM 650 computer."
"A class of antennas that utilizes arrays of elementary antennas as reflecting surfaces has been investigated. An antenna of this type is here called a Reflectarray. It has been found that the Reflectarray combines much of the simplicity of the reflector-type antenna with the performance versatility of the array type. The reflecting surfaces employed in these antennas are characterized by a surface impedance that can be synthesized to produce a variety of radiation patterns. The equations of the surface impedance as a function of the desired reflected phase front is derived for the lossless case and methods of realizing this surface impedance are presented. Experimental results of a waveguide array type Reflectarray are given including pencil beam, broad beam and scanning modes. Data on the effects of specific phase errors are presented."
"Missile functions are often initiated by the detonation, upon command, from either a wire or radio circuit, of sensitive electroexplosive devices. The possibility exists of inadvertent detonation of these devices caused by the leakage of radio-frequency energy into the missile from high-power radar or communications facilities. This paper treats the idealized problem of RF energy leakage through a slot in an infinite cylinder as a perturbation on the scattering problem for the same object with no slot. It is shown that interior response depends on three factors: the exterior skin current density from the scattering problem, the transmitting admittance of the slot, and an eigenfunction expansion of the interior field when unit voltage is impressed across the slot. It is then proposed that the form of this solution may be applicable and conceptually useful in treating other problems either theoretically or experimentally."
"A new \"time-delay\" scanner consists of a constrained wide-angle two-dimensional microwave lens with a straight front face in which lens elements connect arbitrary points on the inner and outer contours. The lens can operate at very short pulse lengths and can scan more beamwidths than any previously known device of its type. A phase analysis shows that this design has very small coma aberrations and that the lens can generate fractional degree beams. Criteria developed for selecting optimum lens parameters are given. The radiation patterns of an experimental model in which the lens elements consist of coaxial cables show the expected wide-angle characteristics. In further tests incremental scanning was obtained through the use of phase shifters in the coaxial lens elements. The design of symmetrical three-dimensional lenses is briefly discussed. A table of lens contour parameters is given for an optimum lens design with scan angle\\alphaof30\\deg."
"A method based on ray optics is developed for calculating the scattering from dielectric bodies. The fields of geometrical optics are used except for two types of rays where the fields must be corrected from physical optics solutions. The customary advantages of ray techniques are realized, namely, a simplicity in the resulting formulas, a ready interpretation of the scattering mechanism and the possibility of extension to a wider class of problems through the inclusion of additional rays. The method has been applied to several lossless dielectric shapes: the circular cylinder, the sphere, the prolate spheroid and to a lossy dielectric shell. The relative dielectric constants considered range from 0.25 to 1.80, except in the case of the shell. The calculated results are compared with those obtained from boundary value solutions, with the exception of the spheroid where measured values are used. Good results are obtained for all sizes considered except those which are very small and behave as Rayleigh scatterers. The failure in the region of Rayleigh scattering is to be expected. Thus, for the class of dielectric scatterers treated here there is no region of scattering resonance corresponding to that of similar metallic shapes where the geometrical optics solution is no longer valid."
"The optical approximation to scattering by a composite cylinder includes two classes of rays: those which are reflected by the core and those which are not. It is shown here that members of the latter set may arise whenever a certain integral has a stationary phase point in a restricted parameter regime. Consideration of the restrictions in the case of forward scattering shows that relatively few core-independent rays of low order will satisfy the geometrical requirements even when a stationary phase point exists."
"In the first part of this paper we consider an ensemble of complex numbers (a set of signals in time, the field scattered by different configurations of scatterers, etc.) and obtain relations among various average functions that may be defined for such an ensemble. In particular, we consider the average total intensity, the coherent intensity, and the incoherent intensity (absolute squared functions of the ensemble); the coherent phase, average phase and average-square phase; the variances of the real and imaginary components of the ensemble and their covariance (or equivalently, the second moments of any phase-quadrature components of the field), as well as the higher moments. The second moments are represented in terms of the incoherent intensity and the real and imaginary parts of an \"asymmetry function\"P; ifP=0, then the variances are equal and the covariance is zero. In the second part of the paper, we briefly sketch the formalism that leads to scattering function representations for the intensities and coherent phase, and then develop the corresponding scattering representation of the new functionP. We illustrate the development by explicit results for \"gas-like\" random distributions of large tenuous scatteres. Thus we obtain direct relations between the various statistical functions mentioned above and the fundamental parameters of the scattering problem. Since the parameters enter differently in the various averages, and since these functions can be measured simultaneously and independently, the results facilitate inverting measured data."
"Presents highlihts of the Administrative Committee Meeting for this issue of the publication."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Waveguide arrays with slots in the broad face use either longitudinal shunt slots displaced from the centerline or inclined series slots on the centerline. Despite the established popularity of the shunt-displaced slot, a case can be made for the superiority of the series-inclined slot. The resonant length of the series-inclined slot is substantially independent of the inclination, and the cross-polarized side lobes are easily reduced by a simple filter. For the shunt slot, resonant-length variations and unwanted side-lobes caused by the offsets are problems less easily solved. Some general features of four types of slotted waveguide arrays are discussed: (1) untransposed series or shunt slots, (2) transposed series or shunt slots, (3) interlaced series and shunt slots firing forward, and (4) interlaced series and shunt slots firing backward. Typical grating lobe spectra are shown and the relationship of the slotted linear array to the optical diffraction grating is discussed. The four types of slotted waveguide arrays presented are special cases of Rayleigh's beam-forming phased array in which the diffraction grating is \"blazed\" so that all the light falls in a particular direction. Slotted array design techniques are reconsidered briefly and \"leakance\" characteristics are shown for the one-third constant plus two-thirds cosine squared distribution (for different powers in the termination). The Fourier transform character of the input SWR versus frequency pattern is noted. Auxiliary fittings for slotted arrays (parallel plates, chokes, prisms, and horns) are also reviewed. Series-slotted waveguide arrays have been built by AIL forK_{u}-, X-, and S-bands, and for 332 Mc, where the array is 54 feet long with twenty-six 18-inch slots in a 26 by 13 inch waveguide. Two such arrays (side by side) were developed for an aeronautical glide-slope application. There is special interest in all of these arrays because of their use at or near the broadside beam-firing angle. Measurements of patterns made at or near the zero squint angle showed satisfactory beam formation with side lobes below -20 db and cross-polarized lobes below -27 db. Input SWR's were less than 2 to 1. Isolation between adjacent antennas was better than -45 db."
"This paper presents a study of linear arrays with uniform element spacings but non-uniform progressive phase shift while the amplitude excitation is either uniform or tapered. It is shown that such arrays (1) offer higher directive gain with the number of elements, their spacings, and phases as parameters; as a special case, yield higher gain, under the endfire condition, than the Hansen-Woodyard discrete endfire array, (2) are applicable to wide-angle scanning, (3) may be synthesized to produce a desired pattern with less error, (4) may be derived from a known pattern, (5) can be used for sidelobe reduction, and (6) may also yield a pattern with equal sidelobes when the amplitude excitation is uniform."
"A study has been made of thinning planar arrays by removing a large fraction of the elements, but keeping the main lobe width relatively unchanged and maintaining reasonably good sidelobe levels. The amplitude of the signal at each element is assumed constant (no amplitude taper). Peak sidelobes of the order of -25 db are obtained with a 10,000 element array thinned 90 percent (1000 elements remaining). Several approaches have been taken in designing the element configuration to achieve these sidelobes, but all use concentric ring arrays where the elements are placed at the intersection of rings with radials. The behavior of the pattern when the beam is steered off broadside has also been investigated and a slight deterioration of peak sidelobes has been noted."
"Considerations affecting the design of traveling-wave slot arrays which may be fed from either end to produce symmetrical beams are presented. The application of this approach to the design and construction of two-dimensional waveguide slot arrays is described. The arrays designed are capable of producing a pencil beam in each of 4 directions, when fed from each of 4 ports. The beams are symmetrically located, to a high degree of precision, about the normal to the array. Such an antenna finds application in fixed-beam doppler radar systems. Problems discussed are those of obtaining low sidelobes and high aperture efficiency. In the solutions presented, near-in sidelobes were reduced to the 20-25-db level, but internal reflection of power not radiated by the traveling-wave array led to \"image sidelobes\" which were of the order of 15-17 db. Also discussed are practical problems such as construction methods, reduction of beam shift with temperature, reduction of humidity effects on gain, and effect of tolerances on beam symmetry."
"A computer method for determining the antenna design parameters which maximize system response under the propagation conditions encountered on the specific propagation path is described. The method described is applied to design of rhombic antenna systems specifically but is applicable to other types of antennas whose response can be expressed mathematically."
"Radio Astronomy plays a dual role. Fundamentally a science, it often serves as a tool for engineers. Radio Astronomy has furnished accurate knowledge of dimensions and intensities of some radio stars. This information in turn helps determine those parameters of large-diameter antennas which cannot be accurately calculated by conventional methods. The large antenna may then be used to make absolute measurements of other radio sources. At AFCRL parameters of the 84- foot parabola were found by such methods. The antenna was then used during two lunar eclipses to record simultaneously lunar thermal emission at 1200 and 3100 megacycles which was found to be constant at230\\degand223\\degK respectively. The moon thus becomes another source which may be used to calibrate large antennas."
"A new antenna type is described which combines the low noise temperature characteristics of the horn-reflector antenna with the more attractive mechanical features associated with the paraboloidal reflector. Cassegrain optics used in an off-set feed configuration enables a virtual source to be formed without sub-reflector blockage. An extremely compact structure is realized with a concave hyperboloid which mirrors the actual feed located on the paraboloidal surface. Except for the aperture, the antenna is completely shielded. The design approach is outlined and measurements on an experimental model are presented. Ground noise contribution from minor lobes is about2\\degK."
"Some of the basic principles of log-periodic type of design of wideband antennas are outlined. A wide-band flush-mounted antenna called the Letter-rack antenna is designed on the basis of above principles. It is shown why the simple corrugated structure is not suitable for broadband design without some basic changes. A composite system consisting of a series of alternately reversed loops and the corrugated surface structure is constrcuted such that the two periodic structures couple strongly with each other. The behavior of the coupled system is studied on the basis of a coupled mode type of approach. Experimental measurements on the corrugated surface, the uniform Letter-rack antenna and the LP Letter-rack, are reported. It is indicated that the design principles may be applied to building other antennas."
"The transient performance of a uniformly excited, equal-spaced linear dipole array is evaluated under the assumption of constant radiated power over a finite frequency band. This approach permits the implicit evaluation of the effects of mutual coupling between array elements on transient performance. It is shown that the transient response depends on the array directivity as a function of frequency. Approximation techniques are used to evaluate the transient performance at boresight, within the main antenna beam, and beyond the main beam for small and large array element, spacing. At boresight, the far field signal may be approximated by the weighted sum of the Hilbert transform of the input signal and its time derivative."
"The era of space communications has imposed new requirements on ground communications antenna design. The antenna feed system must provide the capability for high-power transmission and reception of signals for communications and tracking. The design of a Cassegrainian antenna configuration, which is being used in a satellite communications ground terminal, is discussed. The feed configuration is located at the vertex of a 30-foot parabolic reflector. It consists of a single transmitting feed located in the center of a cluster of four receiving feeds. The Cassegrainian design readily permits interchanging of feeds and subreflectors for operation at receiver frequencies which may vary by more than four to one without changing the pattern crossover level for tracking. A single feed configuration for operation with the Telstar and Relay satellites has been developed. It is now being used for communications experiments with the Telstar satellite."
"Like the \"Smith\" or Reflection Chart for transmission-line analysis, the \"Difference-Signal Chart\", or simply \"Difference Chart\", has been developed for monopulse-radar analysis. This chart provides a coordinate system to graph the difference signal as a complex vector (or phasor) locus for all antenna pattern angles. The graph, when combined with simple construction techniques, offers a visual presentation of the factors affecting the boresight and error signal output of a monopulse tracking radar. It enables a quantitative analysis of performance by inspection and also helps to develop concepts which lead to a better understanding of monopulse operation."
"In a previous paper by Mei and Van Bladel, the authors calculated the surface current densities on rectangular cylindrical obstacles when they were illuminated by plane waves. Many interesting results were observed at high frequencies. The present paper is the application of the geometric theory of diffraction in the interpretation of the high-frequency phenomena. The occurrences of resonances in the obstacles are explained. The diffracted fields contributed by the corners are shown to be much weaker than was to be expected. The total scattering cross-sections of rectangular cylinders are discussed."
"In this paper we derive the characteristic equation for the complex propagation constant in a transmission line periodically loaded with dipole elements. This equation is solved for real and imaginary parts of the mode propagation constants. The effect of mutual impedance between antenna elements is included in the formulation and calculation. Theoretical calculations are compared with experimental results reported by Mayes and Ingerson. The usefulness and limitation of the Brillouin (k-\\beta) diagram for analyzing LP structures is discussed briefly."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Antennas and Propagation."
"A nomogram, giving quickly the position and the amplitude of the side lobes of broadside linear arrays of isotropic radiators fed in phase at equal power, has been used for the preliminary design of arrays whose spacings are always larger than\\frac{3}{4} \\lambdaand whose first side lobes are as small as possible. The equations giving the amplitude of the side lobes for sources with cosine directivity at any spacings are written and have been solved with the aid of a computer. By applying a relaxation method, it has been possible to obtain linear arrays with unequal spacings whose side lobes grow with angle of emission from very low levels to acceptable values. Tables give the spacings of the radiators, the positions and the levels of all side lobes for symmetrical arrays of 4 to 16 sources and apertures ranging from 2.47 to18 \\lambda."
"This paper describes the design and performance of a circularly polarized S-band planar array antenna for the Surveyor spacecraft. The planar array consists of corrugated waveguide transmission lines containing crossed slots and pairs of complex slots. A high overall antenna efficiency was achieved in a 38.5 inch square array that weighs only 8-1/2 pounds."
"The flexibility of an electronically steerable phased array offers many advantages. However, in systems where it is required to scan a narrow beam over a small angle, the cost and complexity become prohibitive. The use of large-aperture reflectors has been hampered by the limited scan angle available as well as by the techniques of scanning. Techniques that use a distribution of feeds In the vicInity of the focal point have recently been proposed to alleviate these problems. These techniques offer the advantages of a phased array at reduced cost and complexity over a limited scan angle."
"The spherical reflector has attracted the attention of antenna designers for many years and many papers have been published on theoretical and experimental investigations of its performance[1,2,3,4]. This paper describes research being conducted on a practical-size antenna to investigate construction techniques, cost advantages, performance and methods for correcting for spherical aberration. The work has followed a logical progression from theoretical to model tests to full-scale antenna. Present effort is concerned with a secondary reflector which corrects for spherical aberration over broad bandwidths. The antenna performance is being evaluated by means of radio star emission that is detected with parametric amplifier Dicke-type radiometers."
"The design and construction of a high performance satellite communications antenna system or radar antenna system is an immense undertaking requiring the utmost skills in science and economics. With present day technology it is reasonably facile to design a high performance antenna system from the scientific viewpoint alone. However, if the design is compounded by the imposition of cost considerations, the demand arises for an extremely detailed study of the tradeoffs of dollars versus performance or more succinctly \"db per buck\". From a cost-performance viewpoint, the parabolic aperture antenna yields the highest gain per dollar invested, hence it is of significant value to study the methods by which the parabolic antenna can be made to yield higher performance than has been previously demonstrated. This paper deals with the utilization of a Horn Parabola antenna of moderate size as a feed for a multi-reflector antenna system utilizing the conventional paraboloid, and designated the Doubly Folded Antenna[1]. This antenna has been experimentally evaluated and found topossess many of the characteristics required where high gain low-noise properties are desired."
"Conventional dual reflector antenna systems have been based largely on the Cassegrain parabola-hyperbola design or the Gregorian parabola-ellipse design[1]. The designs are based on the principles of geometrical optics with consequent limitations. A generalization of the optical design is presented here which allows the synthesis of reflector shapes for arbitrary phase and amplitude distributions in the aperture of the larger reflector with an arbitrary primary feed. In contrast, a single reflector design permits either phase or amplitude control in the aperture. The analysis will be made for a surface of revolution and results presented for a uniform phase and amplitude case."
"This investigation is aimed at forming a practical idea of the diffraction pattern in the focal plane of a finite axially-symmetric paraboloidal reflector when illuminated by a plane electromagnetic monochromatic wave incident at a small angle to the axis[1, 2]."
"Previously, the quantum mechanical Bloch waves in a cubic crystal were analyzed by a cavity or structure constant approach by J. Korringa, W. Kohn and N. Rostoker, et al. In the present report, the above method is reformulated to permit the analysis of electromagnetic Bloch waves in artificial dielectrics as well as electromagnetic surface waves and leaky waves on open periodic structures. The analysis, which is particularly appropriate for \"small scatterers,\" proceeds as follows. It is shown that a \"lossless\" scatterer embedded in a \"lossless\" medium can be characterized by a Hermitian matrix R. The lattice structure is then characterized by a \"structure constant\" matrix\\Gammawhich is Hermitian in the eigenwave region and non-Hermitian in the leaky wave region. A dispersion relation is then obtained from the condition that the determinant of the matrix (R-\\Gamma) vanishes."
"We investigate the diffracted field that arises when an incident electromagnetic surface wave strikes the edge of a right-angle bend at an oblique angle. One face of the bend supports the surface wave and the other face is a perfect conductor. This diffraction problem is related to the scanning surface wave antennas. We treat two cases which correspond to the normal TM and TE surface waves respectively. The first case may be reduced to the two dimensional TM problem. The second ease involves a second order boundary condition and is exactly analyzed in detail. The effect of the obliquity on the reflection coefficient and on the radiation pattern in each case will be discussed."
"An obvious method for obtaining antennas for use at millimeter wavelengths is to scale antennas which have already been developed for use at lower frequencies. However, as the frequency is increased, decreased dimensional tolerances and increased losses place a limit on ones ability to use conventional antenna types at the higher frequencies. In the propagation of energy at millimeter wavelengths problems of this kind have been circumvented by the development of unique transmission methods such as \"H\", \"O\", and \"X\" guides, dielectric image lines, the use of higher order modes in circular waveguide, and the electromagnetic beam waveguide of Goubau, Schwering, and Christian[1,2]. The advent of these efficient transmission methods at millimeter wavelengths give rise to the interesting problem of coupling energy between these types of guiding systems and free space in an efficient manner. It is the purpose of this paper to report on an antenna consisting of two dielectric lenses which is excited directly from an electromagnetic beam waveguide."
"The antenna as an anisotropic boundary value problem was first considered by Cheo, Rumsey and Welch[1] in their solution to the frequency independent antenna problem. The theoretical results so obtained not only displayed the expected nature of an equiangular spiral antenna, but also closely agreed with actual experimental measurements. Therefore, the directionally conductive surface as a mathematical model of radiator is indeed a potentially powerful approach to antenna analysis. The present paper is a theoretical investigation of the solutions of a class of spherical spiral antennas."
"By adding a square wave of noise to the input of an ultra-low-noise microwave receiver [1] via a directional coupler, see Figure 1, a radiometer with a sensitivity greater than a Dicke type can be achieved when the basic system temperature is less than18\\degK. A noise-adding radiometer is compatible with a communications receiver and can be used 1) to measure and monitor the system temperature and 2) to check the boresighting of a space communications antenna by detecting and tracking radio stars. The major hardware components are readily available, the excess noise temperature, mismatch, and instabilityproblemsnormallyassociated with a mechanical or ferrite switch are avoided, and the residual circuit fluctuation can be reduced to an acceptable value by using a new high-output-level square-law detector, Figure 2, and an improved noise lamp pulse circuit."
"The requirements for large leightweight antennas for various space applications has led to the investigation of many types of self-erecting space antennas. The techniques for achieving erectable antennas are discussed, along with the possibilities and problems that each presents to the antenna engineer. Some erectable antenna types, including several which have been built at Goodyear Aircraft Corporation, are described. These include an inflatable turnstile, mechanically erected parabolics, an inflatable lenticular, an inflatable airmat paraboloid and a foamed reflector. An example of the type of problem to be discussed includes the tradeoff between the structural aspects and the electrical design of the lenticular antenna, which uses fabric drop threads in its interior and therefore requires some attention to the dielectric constant of the medium to achieve equivalent electrical path lengths."
"The existing evidence indicates that at high frequencies, the cosmic radio noise outside the earth's ionosphere is essentially randomly polarized. However, on passing through an absorbing ionosphere the extraordinary mode (X-mode) signal will suffer more absorption than the ordinary mode (O-mode) signal. The quasi-longitudinal approximation of the classical Appleton-Hartree form of the magnetoionic equations gives the relationship for the non-deviative absorption A, in decibels, at an effective operating angular frequency\\omega_{e}."
"The extension of the practical usage of the radio spectrum to centimeter and millimeter wavelengths is limited by the thermal noise properties of the lower atmosphere. It is the purpose of this paper to outline the theory of tropospheric thermal noise emission, emphasize its dependence upon the absorption and refraction characteristics of the troposphere and, finally, to give estimates of its climatic variation."
"Stanford University has been conducting a theoretical-experimental study of obstacle diffraction at microwave frequencies. The experimental program utilizes Mt. Diablo, 36 miles northeast of Stanford, with a height of 3850 feet, as the diffracting obstacle. The path profile is shown in Figure 1. The core of the program is frequency-sweep transmission which permits time-shared study of received power as a function of both frequency and time. The transmitter, a 300 watt carcinotron, is frequency-modulated by a 25 cps sawtooth waveform over a 60 Mc range centered at 3130 Mc. The receiver is swept in a similar fashion once per second. The resulting video display consists of 25 \"pulses\" per second corresponding to each frequency interception, with a complete scan of the frequency range each second. This pattern is recorded on magnetic tape for later playback and for analysis. Line-of-sight measurements, for calibration purposes, show the system response to be flat to within\\pm 1db."
"This paper considers an extension of the Appleton-Hartree theory to include the effects of finite compressibility of the electron plasrna. Finite compressibility implies a finite velocity for acoustic waves in an unmagnetized plasma, and such waves also may occur in a magnetized plasma. The cases of interest here are those in which an acoustic wave and an electromagnetic wave are coupled by the application of a steady magnetic field."
"In a long-distance HF communication system, the operating frequency requires frequent change to accommodate variations of heights of ionosphere layers. Such frequency switching also calls for antenna switching. Because of its extremely broadband characteristics, a log-periodic antenna or array is especially useful in HF communication, as the HF band, 3-30 MC, can be easily covered with a single antenna of this kind, and the antenna switching is eliminated."
"Many successful, practical and useful designs have evolved from the log-periodic class of frequency independent antennas in the past few years. One such is the vertically polarized log-periodic monopole array which, because of its geometry, must be considered as a separate class. Because of reduced height requirements (approximately one-quarter wavelength), these antennas have found wide application in the few years of their development. For every successful design, however, there have been at least several unsuccessful attempts. This is evidence that a thorough knowledge of the basic principles which underlie successful frequency independent performance does not yet exist. This fact, and the requirement of the sponsoring agency for an improved vertically polarized directional antenna system for wideband operation, prompted the subject study."
"This paper describes the application of the optimization technique known as dynamic programming[1] to the design of \"thinned\" array antennas with unequal element spacings. Dynamic programming is a systematic procedure for efficiently utilizing the capabilities of modern high speed digital computing machines to find optimum solutions to problems not computationally feasible by conventional means. It is used here to determine the optimum configuration of element spacings to achieve a desired radiation pattern."
"Large phased arrays have received great attention in recent years as the high resolution antennas become in increasing demand. More recently the Advisory Panel of Radio Telescopes of the National Science Foundation[1] has adopted the resolutions on the need of a decimeter radio telescope with a 1' of arc beam. A preliminary study for the Benelux project[2] also considered a few antenna arrays for Mills-Cross type telescope. Motivated by such activities the present investigation was made in an attempt to develop a new technique in the design of high resolution antenna arrays."
"The study of the radiation characteristics of localized electromagnetic sources in ionized gaseous medium, known generally as plasmas, has application to the problem of radio communication with missiles and space vehicles passing through the ionized regions in space. In this paper, the radiation characteristics of a line source of magnetic current situated in a compressible plasma medium of semi-infinite extent and bounded on one side by a perfectly conducting rigid planar screen is investigated. The special case for which the line source is on the screen becomes equivalent to the problem of radiation into a plasma half-space from an infinitely long slot radiator whose width is very much smaller in comparison to the wavelength. In a previous paper, the same problem was investigated for the case of an incompressible plasma in which the longitudinal plasma waves cannot be sustained. In this investigation, the previous analysis is extended to the case of a compressible plasma which is capable of supporting both the transverse electromagnetic waves and the longitudinal plasma waves."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"It is known that the fields present on an open periodic structure can be expressed as an infinite sum of space harmonics, and that each of these space harmonics which is a fast wave along the surface corresponds to a radiating beam. The radiation characteristics can be conveniently represented in the form of a k vs. B diagram, or dispersion curve, on which radiation generally occurs when the operating point is located outside of a set of specified triangles."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents recipients of Outstanding paper awards 1962 ISSCC."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents the formal opening message to the conference proceedings."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Recent progress in microwave transistor manufacturing technology has stimulated the application of transistors to microwave devices. This paper will describe a wideband high gain L-band transistor amplifier which consists of six common-emitter stages on a printed circuit board. The author describes an experimental transistor capable of providing 5-db gain per stage out to almost 2 Gc. The circuit diagram of a single-stage common-emitter amplifier is given. The emitter is grounded for rf frequencies by means of a large capacitance, and the input signal is applied to the base through a series capacitance. The collector is grounded for dc through an rf choke. To prevent rf leakage to bias circuits, the dc voltages of the emitter and base are applied through low-pass networks. A series combination of a resistor and a parallel resonant circuit in the collector circuit secures low-frequency stability, and a low-pass type output network improves output impedance matching and peaks up the gain at the high-frequency edge of the band."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Small-signal power gain measurements of active devices at high frequencies involve ambiguities due to the effects of internal feedback, making it difficult to measure accurately and isolate critical device parameters. has led to the definitioa of a new device parameter called An extensive search for a definitive gain measurement Gain Figure. Specifically: GF x (Forward Gain) x (Reverse Loss). A rigorous analysis of a two-port shows that the product of forward gain and reverse loss is equal to a particular matrix representation and is independent of the source and load admittances. Moreover, a slight extension of the analysis shows that GF is independent of y, h, and z, i.e., h and z parameters may be substituted directly and gives GF = |y21/y12|2 = |h21/h12|2 = |z21/z12|2."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"The author describes a circuit wherein if one of the two complementary transistors in the feedback action takes place because the collector of circuit starts drawing current, a regenerative each transistor is directly connected to the base of the other one, With the aid of a reference source, one of the transistors can be held to cutoff so that no regenerative action takes place until this blocking source is overcome. Depending upon which two of the three leads are under consideration, this circuit develops either an open- or a short-circuit stable characteristic and therefore is similar to a four-layer element or a tunnel diode, respectively. It is noted that when the temperature is changed, the magnitude of the negative resistance changes in direct proportion to that of the common emitter current amplification factor. A typical set of measured curves is shown."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents the foreword editorial to the conference proceedings"
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1963 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents information session listings for the conference proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper gives a determination of the field around magnetic heads of finite lengths and infinite permeability. The conventional Schwartz-Christoffel [3] transformation was used to map the inside of the polygon, corresponding to a finite magnetic head, into the upper half of the w plane. The mapping equation was derived and the equipotential lines, corresponding to a particular head-to-gap length ratio, were calculated. The equipotential lines for the same ratio were determined experimentally using the analog field plotter. A comparison of the two sets of curves shows that they are in fair agreement, the discrepancy being due to inaccuracy in the experimental measurements. Finally, the study includes a brief discussion of how the use of magnetic heads of finite lengths would increase the packing density of recorded pulses in both RZ and NRZ types of recording."
"A technique has been developed for replicating the surfaces of magnetic recording media. The media used included new magnetic tape, used magnetic tape, and \"Hypalon\" disks; this latter material is used in recording belts. Magnifications ranged from 10,000 × to 80,000 × direct magnification, and up to 240,000 × by photographic enlargement. The electron micrographs thus obtained show a very much smaller unit crystal size for γ-ferric oxide than previously supposed. There is also an apparent relationship between the magnetic properties and the dispersion and unit particle size of the iron oxide particles on the tape surface."
"A circuit comprising rectifiers, diodes and incandescent lamps as nonlinear resistors, and linear resistors to produce a dc output proportional to the largest of one or more ac inputs has been devised. It is capable of a linear range of more than 25 db with 0.5 db accuracy. Applications include plotting of response curves in decibels and measuring reverberation time. Two or more spaced microphones may be used under reverberant conditions to minimize effects of standing wave nulls or to simulate binaural hearing."
"Information theory concepts are applied to determine storage capacity and efficiency of recording media and techniques. Because the signal-to-noise ratio is a function of track width, the capacity must be calculated on an area basis. Expressions are derived for the storage capacity as a function of track width and number of levels stored. This provides a means for comparing the efficiency of various recording techniques such as binary digital, multilevel digital and analog. The results are: 1) The maximum information storage capacity of a recording medium can be determined and the degree to which a practical recording system approaches this can be calculated. 2) The information capacity per unit width of tape or per unit area is greatest when the tracks are made as narrow as possible. 3) Binary recording is more efficient than any digital system using a higher numerical base if very narrow tracks can be utilized. 4) When track width is determined by mechanical factors, multilevel digital storage may be most efficient. The optimum number of levels may be calculated from the signal-to-noise ratio of the track. 5) Binary recording is much more efficient than analog recording when high accuracies or large signal-to-noise ratios are desired."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"One of the major problems in power-amplifier design is to combine high efficiency with thermal stability. Class-C operation with current drive is one possibility but distortion level is high due to crossover and nonlinearity of hFE. A new diode-compensation method is described which allows high efficiency Class-AB operation for maximum output and lowest distortion and with excellent thermal stability. In the output stage the variation of the quiescent current vs temperature is kept small by a diode-resistance network in the emitter of each driver transistor, thereby eliminating the need for large thermal compensating resistance in the emitters of the output transistors. A 10-watt amplifier was designed using the described power-dissipation criteria and the new biasing scheme. Performance of the amplifier demonstrates the effectiveness of the design. It operates with maximum power dissipation up to 65°C ambient with a sine wave input. Calculations are also included in the paper which show the voltage levels of maximum power dissipation for sine, triangular and square waves."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Lateral tracking-angle errors are easily controlled in stereodisk systems and present no serious problems. Vertical tracking-angle errors are much less easily controlled and frequently are the cause of serious harmonic and intermodulation distortion in playback. The mechanisms producing vertical tracking-angle distortion are outlined. Among other things, it is shown that IM products due to frequency-modulation effects in a multicomponent signal are particularly serious. It is shown, also, that the effective tilt angle in a recorder, while cutting a groove, may be considerably different from the nominal tilt angle determined by the internal geometrical configuration of the cutter. This difference can be attributed to bending of the recording stylus as a result of the drag force of the record material being removed from the groove. With present understanding it should be possible to reduce the distortion due to vertical tracking-angle errors to negligibly-low values in stereodisk systems."
"In the diffuse sound field of a reverberant room acoustical intensity is directly proportional to the acoustical power emitted by a source and inversely proportional to absorption in the room. If the room and microphone characteristics are known, pressure response curves of loudspeakers can be plotted which are proportional to the total acoustical power radiated by the loudspeakers. The instrumentation procedures used in mean energy density (MED) testing are described in detail with particular emphasis on the facility at the Jensen Manufacturing Company, and the role of MED measurements in the evaluation of loudspeakers is discussed."
"When we hinted that universities may be neglecting certain areas in their curricula [ibid., vol AU-10, p. 155; Nov-Dec, 1963] we were hastily reassured by a letter from Charles A. Ranous, Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department of the University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA. Dr Ranous discouses the relevant courses taught at the University of Wisconsin."
"In support of the urgency for establishing a standard for the vertical tracking angle in stereo disc recording, the phase perturbing character of tracking error distortion is shown, and used to calculate the phase and amplitude intermodulation distortion (PIM and AIM) and harmonic distortion arising from tracking errors. These results are compared with those of other authors. Phase cross modulation (PXM) between the stereo channels is demonstrated and offered as the basis for measurement of tracking errors. Psychoacoustic consequences are considered."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"At the time of the widespread introduction of stereophonic records in 1957, two cutter systems became available-one embodying a 23° vertical recording angle and the other a 0° angle. In 1961 the Engineering Committee of the RIAA recommended a 15° vertical tracking angle standard for stereophonic pickups. In the intervening years, however, the matter of vertical angles appears to have been neglected by most pickup makers in as much as a range of angles of 0° to over 40° has been reported, in the extreme cases audible distortion being noticed. A new factor has been added by recent CBS Laboratories' discovery that, because of lacquer and stylus springback, the actual slant of the recorded wave is considerably smaller than the recording angle. With 23° cutter normally used, for example, the actual modulation angle is near 0°. A special mounting and special recording stylus have been developed for providing the cutter with an added inclination of 14° which produces the desired 15° effective modulation slant. Modulation slants can be measured by microscopic measurements of dissymmetry of square-wave traces, by measurements of the shift of optical patterns, by measurement of distortion with the forward and reverse pickup orientation on a test record, and by placing the pickup in a normal and an inclined playing position. This latter method of measurement also yields the effective value of pickup tracking angle including the effect of any existing longitudinal elasticity of the stylus mounting."
"A relatively simple installation is sufficient to obtain a four-to-one reduction of the frequency bandwidth occupied by a telephonic signal. The speech is decomposed into its three principal formants which constitute the basic information carrying elements. Each of these formants is compressed both in amplitude and in frequency following a definite mathematical law, and in accordance with a specified formula for transforming the frequency spectrum. The speech obtained is highly intelligible and the spectrum of the reconstituted signal is a satisfactory reproduction of that of the initial telephonic signal. The installation enables additional telephonic communications to be transmitted in the existing channels. CODIMEX means: COmpression, DIvision, Multiplication, EXpansion."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"After five years as Transactions Editor-in-Chief the author gives his goodbyes."
"This paper is concerned with experiments that were run for the purpose of supporting or discounting the various alternating current bias theories concerned with direct recording onto magnetic tape. Only the theories of Toomin and Wildfever, and Camras were found to be compatible with the results."
"A model for self-demagnetization is proposed which states that the value of the field and magnetization at every point in the material represent a point on a particular hysteresis loop of the material. This loop can either be a major or a minor loop of the material. The particular loop ascribed to a point is determined by the magnetization which existed at that point initially. This model has been applied to an ideal case of longitudinal recording. The results are compared with the Kostyshyn model for self-demagnetization and with experimental data."
"Improvements in stereophonic sound reproduction are identified with those qualities which cause the recorded performance to recall similar real performances in the minds of the listeners. This paper describes the results of research at CBS Laboratories toward improvements in recording of space perspective. Two experiments are described: 1) On the use of back-to-back limaçon microphones for reproducing correctly the direction of reverberation and other space sounds. 2) On the design and use of a device called the stereophonic spreader and shifter to spread a monophonic sound to cover any desired proportion of the stereophonic field, and then to position it anywhere in the field, within or outside the limits of placement of the loudspeaker. These devices are characterized as tools which may be used by the recording director to convey to the listener the desired artistic message."
"Present-day video tape uses high-speed mechanical scanning, with rapid wear of tape and heads. Electron-beam scanning is proposed to eliminate mechanical problems and to allow the use of low cost tape. Development work has been conducted on a recording tube using a high-density sheet beam to energize a simplified 500- element magnetic head. For playback a tube was built with a line of fine high-permeability wires sealed into the envelope in the beam path."
"Chartered in 1949, the Professional Group on Audio is the oldest of the IRE Professional Groups. Early operations served as a model for groups in other fields. A brief history covering the years 1949-1962 is provided."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A listing is provided showing all US chapters, their charter date, all chairmen and their years in office."
"The Constitution and bylaws of the IRE Professional Group on Audio (PGA) of The Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), Incorporated are presented."
"Provides a listing of current members."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The ability of magnetic recording tape to perform satisfactorily after repeated use is a characteristic of critical importance in computer service. Wear tests of tapes are time consuming and have not always shown good agreement in the rank ordering of tape between different transport mechanisms and different criteria of end of life. The ability to withstand repeated use is governed to a certain extent the composition of the binder and its adhesion to the plastic backing. Since the solubility of the binder in various solvents depends on its composition, experiments were run to see how well solubility could be correlated with wear. This communication is to bring attention to this work which is reported in more detail in other IEEE and non-IEEE reports."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"An analysis is given of the magnetic circuit of a recording (or playback) head in a multitrack assembly. In particular the analysis is concerned with the effect of leakage flux between the core of the head and the closely spaced screen which separates neighboring heads in the assembly. The analysis includes the reluctance of the front and rear gaps, and also the distributed nature of the core and leakage path reluctances. Expressions are derived for sensitivity and inductance in terms of three dimensionless parameters which refer to core, leakage and rear gap reluctances, respectively. Graphical results are included for typical values of the parameters."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A compact flux sensitive head utilizes a diffuse electron stream which reverses direction in the region where the magnetic field is applied."
"Tracing and tracking errors in phonograph reproduction are shown to have a common basis of analysis, the skew transformation, and the distortion arising from these errors to be due solely to phase perturbation. The phase-perturbation model is used to show the principles by which compensating schemes must be governed. Formulas are given for the distortion arising from the joint application of tracing and tracking error, and the recording-velocity restrictions so implied are plotted. In the Appendix, a means for obtaining exact closed-form Fourier analyses is explained and results quoted."
"Donald F. Eldridge, author of \"A Special Application of Information Theory to Recording Systems,\" which appeared in the January-February, 1963 issue of these Transaction, requested that a statement be published tha this paper was based upon work which he performed while employed by the Research Division of Ampex Corporation."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Speech synthesizing circuitry for use with hand-painted spectra is described. Photocontrolled audio oscillators are employed to obtain pure tones. Oscillation conditions are examined in a unified form for both vacuum tube and transistor circuitry. Amplitude stabilization is discussed employing a complex load. A prototype unit with six oscillators is found to have excellent frequency and amplitude stability for arbitrary audio oscillator frequencies. With additional oscillators, photo diode control of the sound intensity will provide the necessary flexibility for speech synthesis."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Loudspeaker drive systems employing negative velocity feedback, by directly controlling the voice-coil motion, can improve the over-all linearity and largely suppress the fundamental resonance. These features permit good results using reasonably efficient loudspeakers in small sealed-box enclosures. In stable systems the degree of control provided is directly related to the loop gain. Instability and overloading problems can arise in partially capacity-coupled amplifiers unless special phase-compensation circuits are employed. For comparable distortion reduction at higher frequencies one must employ the same number of valves in the main amplifier as in conventional high-quality amplifiers. An additional valve stage is needed outside the main feedback loop to provide correction for the loss of 20 db per decade in radiating efficiency below the point of ultimate resistance of the equivalent piston radiator. The main amplifier is developed from Mullard circuits. Additions include a bridge in the voice-coil circuit and low-frequency phase-compensation elements. Reliable design procedures for these are given in detail. Specifications necessary for satisfactory performance are discussed."
"A treatment already given permits velocity-feedback systems to be designed for adequate stability margin at low frequencies. At the higher frequencies allowance must be made for the modifying effects of the relatively impure blocked voice-coil \"inductance.\" Because of the nature of this inductance, a design procedure was developed in terms of closed-loop voltage response at the voice-coil terminals. A relatively simple compensation could be provided to produce a suitable balance in the acoustic frequency response at the low, middle and upper audio frequencies. Stable operation also was obtained with no signs of parasitic oscillations. Practical examples, on testing, established the closeness of certain simplifying approximations used in the design. Results indicate how this type of feedback can suppress the fundamental resonance and extend the bass response. An important feature of the design is that it is based upon measurements of voice-coil impedance of the loudspeaker in its enclosure but without the need to block the voice-coil motion."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A new horn was designed with reduced taper rate and mouth size as compared to an existing horn. Low-frequency response was improved by adding a flange or baffle. Comparison with the existing unflanged horn of similar length shows ability to radiate a wavelength 20 per cent longer. The reduced exit angle provided an unexpected gain in high-frequency range and smoothness of response. With a new wide-range driver, the horn produces smooth response at frequencies more than an octave higher than the old horn and driver. Thus, the bulkier horn with 500-5000 cps response and a tweeter may be replaced with a single horn having 260-17,000 cps response."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The theory of simple moving-coil earphone behavior is briefly described. Some considerations concerning the measurement of sound pressure response and harmonic distortion are mentioned, with special reference to difficulties encountered at high frequencies. Several design objectives are presented, followed by a discussion of design techniques including two new approaches: 1) the introduction of a damping grease into the air gap of the magnetic structure for increased power handling ability, smoother sound pressure response and improved transient performance near the fundamental resonance; 2) a resonant back-loading cavity for improved low-frequency performance when air leaks are present."
"The \"Brief History of PGA, 1949-1952,\" which appeared in the May-June issue of this TRANSACTIONS, misses some of the earlist history. The commentor fills in some of that history covering March 1948 through 1949 and into 1950."
"A tone control circuit is described which allows a large choice in the high- and low-frequency attenuation or boost and in the position of the tone compensation curves over all the acoustic spectrum. These two controls, which are completely independent, are obtained with structurally simple RC networks. This tone control is included in a preamplifier for music reproduction. The compensation and equalization curves are reported in the paper and the characteristics of the complete preamplifier are described."
"For many types of data transfer systems it is desirable that the data be delayed long enough so that the system is ready for the data. In the present Space Surveillance system it is desirable to delay data until the recorder is up to speed. The requirement for delaying the composite Inter-Range Instrumentation Group (IRIG) FM telemetering signals from a Space Surveillance site by one-half second was fulfilled by converting the phone-line frequencies into sound, which is then transmitted through a pipe long enough to provide the desired delay and then reconverted into electrical signals. The delayed output is essentially distortionless."
"The Awards Committee on the Professional Technical Group on Audio (PTGA) is proud to announce the following two awards for the year 1962. IEEE-PTGA Achievement Award (to John K. Hillard) and the IEEE-PTGA Senior Award (to Frank A. Comerci). A brief biography of each is given highlighting their professional achievements."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Summary form only given. A short biography of Dr. Ernst Weber is presented. Dr. Weber is a Fellow of the IEEE, having been a Fellow of the AIEE since 1934 and of the IRE since 1951. He is also a Fellow of the American Physical Society. He served as IRE President in 1959, IRE Vice President in 1962, and a Director of the IRE from 1952 to 1962. He was active on AIEE committees since 1937, and IRE committees since 1941."
"This article is intended as a review of the field of optical masers, or lasers as they have come to be known, summarizing both theory and practice. It starts with a theoretical section in which black body radiation theory is used to introduce the concepts of spontaneous and induced transitions. This is followed by the derivation of the Schawlow-Townes instability (start-oscillation) condition and a description of the different laser media. Other topics treated include: optical pumping, experimental techniques, output power and noise. The sections on optical resonators and communications which conclude the paper have been slightly emphasized since, perhaps to a larger extent than the other topics covered in this paper, they coincide with traditional areas of interest of microwave and communications engineers."
"The paper reviews the potentialities and present status of maser and parametric radiometer systems in the whole field of radio astronomy, including radar astronomy. A short historical account of the development of the maser is followed by an outline of the objectives of radio-astronomical research, and the radiation mechanisms which arise. After an account of the requirements of the radio astronomer, a detailed discussion is presented of the limitations and relative merits of masers and parametric amplifiers in this field of research. The paper includes a compilation of data on existing and planned observatory installations. This data has been gathered from published work and from replies to a questionnaire which was widely circulated by the author; it embraces, it is hoped, most of the currently available information. Finally, there is a brief summary of some of the achievements in astronomy which have resulted directly from the developments and applications of these low-noise devices. A few notes are added, in conclusion, as pointers to the likely trends in the near future."
"A method of laser modulation is described which produces fast, intense and controllable \"giant\" laser pulses by \"Q-modulation.\" In experiments with ruby, pulses of peak power up to 15 MW and of duration less than 30 nsec have been studied. The principles of the technique are outlined and early experimental results reviewed. The temporal, spectral and spatial structure of giant pulses produced from ruby by a nitrobenzene Kerr cell modulator is reported. The pulse characteristics found to date yield information about the nature of various relaxation processes in ruby and point the way to further experiments to clarify many questions which are raised. The results a) set an upper limit of 10-7sec on the E-→2A-relaxation time, b) show a shortening of upper-state relaxation time by about seven times under heavy pumping, c) show relaxation of excitation taking place across the laser line in microseconds, d) show progressive spectral broadening for shorter pulses to encompass most of the fluorescent line, e) show increasing asymmetry of spectral output for faster, more intense pulses, and f) show little broadening of beam divergence over normal, but with added structure."
"A requirement for a three level microwave maser is that transitions be allowed between nonadjacent energy levels. This can be accomplished by a strong hyperfine interaction which, like a noncubic crystalline field, mixes the spin states. Moreover, an energy doublet in a cubic field would have an isotropic Zeeman effect and the material could then be used in powdered form. EPR studies have shown that divalent holmium in CaF2has a strong hyperfine interaction and is in a field of cubic symmetry with an energy doublet lowest. This material may be used in powdered form in maser applications below 5 kMc. It is shown that Ho2+:CaF2is expected to have a figure-of-merit which is one-tenth that of ruby for equal concentrations of the paramagnetic ion. If further work verifies the advantage of using powder, it is possible that more favorable materials of this kind can be found."
"Spectroscopic studies have shown that, apart from a set of absorption lines due to tetravalent uranium, U :CaF2crystals exhibit two types of U3+sites. An energy level system has been determined for the sites corresponding to \"isolated\" ions. These sites give rise to a maser transition at 2.51 microns. The second type of site, appearing only in more highly doped crystals, was associated with the maser lines observed at 2.61 and 2.57 µ. The 2.61-µ line arises from a \"four-level\" system of energy states and has been made to oscillate continuously. The 2.57-µ line is a high temperature line that has only been briefly studied. The intensity of the \"isolated ion\" spectrum saturates as the uranium concentration is raised, while that of the \"high concentration\" spectrum increases roughly quadratically with increasing uranium content. Longitudinal modes have been seen in the spectra of the maser outputs at both 2.51 and 2.61 µ Both lines exhibit spiking down to helium temperatures. In a crystal exhibiting both maser lines simultaneously, maser oscillation begins at a much lower threshold for the 2.61-µ line, but the output at this wavelength saturates at high excitation levels; this saturation has not been observed in the 2.51-µ line."
"In this paper, experimental and theoretical results of a detailed study of the Zeeman effects in a gaseous He-Ne optical maser under weak and normal excitation conditions are given. Attention is confined to the strongest maser emission line (2s2→2p4). Under weak excitation conditions, the maser emission is a doublet of right and left circularly polarized waves. These may belong to either the same cavity mode or different cavity modes, depending on the strength of the applied magnetic field. When viewed through a linear polarizer, the maser emission is amplitude modulated. Under normal excitation conditions, for suitable magnetic fields, the maser could oscillate in at least three modes. The maser emission would then consist of a pair of right circularly polarized waves of two different cavity resonant frequencies and a pair of left circularly polarized waves of different frequencies. In this case, a beat note at the difference frequency is photo-detected without the need for a linear polarizer. An interesting phase relationship among the various components of the maser multiplet is found. This phase relationship can be explained when the nonlinearity due to saturation is taken into account."
"The case of a resonator composed of two concave spherical reflectors separated by an arbitrary distance is examined. The general problem of the electromagnetic field distribution over the nonconfocal aperture is first formulated by means of the Huygens principle. The solution of the resulting integral equation is obtained analytically in the highly nonconfocal limit. It was found that when the reflector spacing d is much larger than the radius of curvature b of the reflectors, the aperture field distribution is in the form of traveling waves. For arbitrary d/b, the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the lowest order mode is obtained by numerical solution using the IBM 7090 computer. The diffraction loss was found to increase rapidly when d→2b and a geometrical interpretation of this behavior is given. Furthermore, it was found that as the spacing departs from the confocal value, the apertures are no longer surfaces of constant phase. The optimum spacing for maximum Q of the resonator is also obtained."
"Using the semiclassical theory of radiation, the steady-state operation of the optical maser oscillator is studied in the case where a single \"cavity\" mode is excited. On introducing certain simplifying assumptions, a straightforward calculation leads to concise results for the frequency and amplitude of the field oscillations. These results are either well known or readily interpreted. For example, a frequency pulling effect is predicted which corresponds to the Bloch-Siegert shift, or alternatively is understandable as due to the Stark effect."
"Fabry-Perot interferometers have played an important role in the conception and realization of optical masers. The authors have previously made a study of the idealized interferometer. In this paper they present some results of a continued study of the effects of certain simple forms of aberration. The first is represented by tilted plane mirrors and the second by curved mirrors. Tilting the mirror causes the mode patterns to become asymmetric and the diffraction loss to become greater. It also tends to equalize the losses of the two lowest-order modes thus causing a beating phenomenon which has been observed experimentally. In the case of interferometers with mirrors of arbitrary radii of curvature, there exist regions of low loss and high loss as the mirror spacing is varied. The loss function can be represented by a contour map of a three-dimensional model which has certain symmetry properties. This model is useful in choosing proper mirror spacing for low loss operation of optical masers."
"This paper has two purposes: 1) to clarify the relationship between the quantum theory of radiation, where the electromagnetic field-expansion coefficients satisfy commutation relations, and the semiclassical theory, where the electromagnetic field is considered as a definite function of time rather than as an operator; and 2) to apply some of the results in a study of amplitude and frequency stability in a molecular beam maser. In 1), it is shown that the semiclassical theory, when extended te take into account both the effect of the field on the molecules and the effect of the molecules on the field, reproduces almost quantitatively the same laws of energy exchange and coherence properties as the quantized field theory, even in the limit of one or a few quanta in the field mode. In particular, the semiclassical theory is shown to lead to a prediction of spontaneous emission, with the same decay rate as given by quantum electrodynamics, described by the Einstein A coefficients. In 2), the semiclassical theory is applied to the molecular beam maser. Equilibrium amplitude and frequency of oscillation are obtained for an arbitrary velocity distribution of focused molecules, generalizing the results obtained previously by Gordon, Zeiger, and Townes for a singel-velocity beam, and by Lamb and Helmer for a Maxwellian beam. A somewhat surprising result is obtained; which is that the measurable properties of the maser, such as starting current, effective molecular Q, etc., depend mostly on the slowest 5 to 10 per cent of the molecules. Next we calculate the effect of amplitude and frequency of oscillation, of small systematic perturbations. We obtain a prediction that stability can be improved by adjusting the system so that the molecules emit all their energy h Ω to the field, then reabsorb part of it, before leaving the cavity. In general, the most stable operation is obtained when the molecules are in the process of absorbing energy from the radiation as they leave the cavity, most unstable when they are still emitting energy at that time. Finally, we consider the response of an oscillating maser to randomly time-varying perturbations. Graphs are given showing predicted response to a small superimposed signal of a frequency near the oscillation frequency. The existence of \"noise enhancing\" and \"noise quieting\" modes of operation found here is a general property of any oscillating system in which amplitude is limited by nonlinearity."
"A theory of travelling- and backward-wave variable parameter amplification appropriate to the amplification of a light beam is developed. It is an extension of the theory of Tien and Suhl for one-dimensional propagation to the case in which the pump wave, signal wave and idler waves have different directions of propagation. The theory is then applied to the design of a tuneable oscillator at optical wavelengths. The device is tuned by changing the orientation of a parallel mirror system. It appears that currently available pulsed laser powers are sufficient to drive such devices and that a continuous tuning range over a three to one interval in frequency is possible."
"The characteristics of a number of different kinds of masers are reviewed to estimate their usefulness in the region between one and a tenth millimeter. An estimate of the maximum power output for these systems is made and compared with the output to be expected from mixing two optical signals in a nonlinear dielectric and on a photocathode. Additionally, the noise characteristics of maser amplifiers are briefly reviewed for this region of the spectrum."
"Approximate theoretical expressions for gain, bandwidth, and root gain-bandwidth are derived by introducing negative absorption into equations for a Fabry-Perot interference filter. Resuits of gain vs frequency calculations are given for a 10-cm maser with high single-pass gain and a 100-cm maser with low single-pass gain. Root gain-bandwidth is shown to be a constant for a given cavity as long as the cavity bandwidth is much smaller than the Doppler or fluorescent linewidth of the maser transition. Frequency drift due to temperature variations and the necessity for precise control of single-pass gain are two practical problems. These must be solved in order to make a stable amplifier with high gain."
"This brief tutorial review first discusses the physical origin of nonlinear electric and magnetic susceptibilities of electro-magnetic media, from the audio through the microwave to the visible range of the electromagnetic spectrum. Wave propagation in non-linear media can be described by a combination of Maxwell's equations and the nonlinear constitutive equations. The Manley-Rowe relationships are verified for anisotropic lossless dielectrica. Microwave harmonic generation in ferrites and other materials, microwave modulation of light, light harmonic generation, light mixing and parametric conversion are all discussed from a general common viewpoint. The boundary conditions at the surface of a nonlinear medium lead to generalizations of the laws of reflection and refraction of light."
"The characteristics of two-conductor transmission lines containing two dielectrics are derived. The results are applied to broad-band traveling-wave light modulators."
"A method for obtaining extremely wide-band light modulation by traveling-wave interaction in electro-optic or magneto-optic materials is described. When the intrinsic velocity of microwaves in the material is appreciably less than that of light, the synchronism conditions require the light to be directed obliquely with respect to the wave vector of the microwave field. Structures are described which satisfy this condition, and in which the microwave field is largely concentrated in the electro-optic medium, resulting in very little dispersion and economical use of microwave power. The use of the linear electro-optic effect in potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) in such applications is considered."
"A simple approach to the problem of detection of optical signals with semiconductors leads to a general understanding of the performance. It shows that the low impedance level of broad-band circuits prevents high efficiency conversion of the incident power. Because of this, the envelope detector has a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) which is determined by the noise of the following amplifier. As in radio communication, addition of a coherent optical signal from a local oscillator can increase SNR; however, for optical signals the limiting value of the noise figure is determined by the shot noise of the conversion current. Comparison with the limiting SNR expected from a photo-emission detector reveals no important distinction between them for frequency conversion. The unit which uses material with the higher quantum conversion efficiency will have the possibility of better SNR. For envelope detection, the photo emitter can be far superior to the photoconductive detector. The two cases of a photovoltaic and a photoelectromagnetic solid-state device are analyzed and general expressions as well as numerical examples given for the design parameters. The devices are comparable both in dimensions and performance."
"A continuous duty coherent light phase modulator has been constructed which exhibits a bandwidth in the kilomega-cycles. A modulation index of unity has been obtained with a modulation peak power of about 12 watts. This power level is independent of the bandwidth of the modulation. This is contrasted with known microwave amplitude light modulators which require peak modulation power in the kilowatts and exhibit bandwidths of the order of 30 Mc. The extremely wide bandwidth operation with the low modulation power is obtained by applying the modulation voltage to the electro-optic material by means of a traveling-wave structure of the transmission line type. The direction of propagation of the light and of the modulation are colinear and the transmission line is designed so that the light progresses through the crystal in synchronism with the modulation on the line. The magnitude of the angular modulation was determined by illuminating the modulator with a ruby laser and examining the individual spectral components of the output with an S-band traveling-wave microwave phototube receiver. Similar to the behavior of conventional FM systems, a minimum in the carrier at a modulation index of 3.75 was observed as well as the appearance of the appropriate sidebands. These experiments were performed at 30 Mc and 1 Gc. It appears that the bandwidth of the modulator should be several octaves greater than 1 Gc, but this was not determined experimentally for equipment reasons. The attenuation of the 1 Gc modulation through the modulator and the balun at either end was 2 db and the attenuation of the light through the electro-optic crystals was about 6 db. A good portion of this later loss undoubtedly occurred at the interfaces between crystals."
"A new type dynamic secondary emission electron multiplication system is described which possesses the advantages of electrostatic electron multipliers while overcoming their major disadvantage, i.e., loss of gain at high frequencies due to electron transit time dispersion. In the dynamic crossed-field electron multiplication system, electrons are multiplied in a field configuration consisting of a high-frequency electric field and a crossed steady magnetic field near a single secondary emitting electrode. The analysis of the system is presented, and an experimental photomultiplier device is described which utilizes this principle. An experiment is also described in which this photomultiplier is used to directly detect light intensity modulated at a frequency of 3 Gc."
"An experimental optical mixer for a superheterodyne receiver has been constructed for the detection of beats in the 2-4 Gc region. This phototube incorporates an image dissector with a traveling-wave tube helix structure. It can be used to search an image field by electronic scanning for optical beats. Construction details and test results are presented."
"The operation of solid-state photodiodes as mixers of coherent light is discussed. Particular attention is given to the parameters that influence 1) frequency response, 2) quantum efficiency and 3) sensitivity. The highest mixed frequency that can be detected is determined by carrier transport considerations as well as RC circuit parameters. Output mixed frequencies to 100 kMc can be obtained in appropriately designed structures. Experimental results verifying the existence of photomixing in Si, Ge, GaAs and InAs photodiodes are presented."
"A semiclassical treatment of the photodissociation of a diatomic molecule is developed. It is shown that the angular distribution of products will often be peaked parallel or perpendicular to the direction of the incident light beam. The form of the anisotropy is usually determined just by the orientation of the electronic transition dipole moment within the molecule and the polarization of the exciting light. From the angular distribution, the Doppler line shape of fluorescence emitted by an excited fragment atom is derived by averaging the geometrical factors over the translational velocity distribution of the parent molecules and the distributions in magnitude and angle of the recoil velocity of the excited atoms. A comparison is made with dissociative electron impact processes which show similar features. The photodissociation of NaI is treated in detail, and the factors influencing the fluorescence width are evaluated for possible optical maser systems in which the supply of excited atoms is generated by molecular dissociation."
"The extension of optical maser techniques to the γ-ray region is considered. It is shown that under certain conditions induced γ rays can be produced. The condition of criticality rather than that of oscillation is used because a γ-ray maser does not have a resonant structure. The main observable effects are the shortening of lifetimes of some γ excitations and the appearance of two or more coherent γ quanta. It appears to be difficult to prepare samples that will become critical. The principles are applied to a specific example."
"The application of optical pumping techniques to microwave masers is discussed. It is shown that optical pumping appears to be promising for achieving low noise maser action at very high frequencies and at elevated temperatures. The analysis includes the treatment of optical pumping principles, noise considerations, pump power requirements and maximum signal frequencies. Potential advantages and limitations which can exist when using optical excitation are considered. Finally, the concepts and procedures developed in this paper are applied for illustrative purposes to evaluate the expected performance of a ruby maser."
"In recent years, gas cell frequency standards, using optical pumping and optical detection of the O-O hyperfine transition in alkali metal vapors, have been developed with good performances regarding stability, reliability and ease of operation. In this paper the physical principles of the double resonance method used in this device are described. The factors affecting the accuracy of the gas cell frequency standard are discussed, together with the solutions adopted for optimum results. The possibility of developing an optically pumped rubidium maser oscillator of very high spectrum purity at microwave frequencies is also briefly discussed."
"The use of coherent detection can theoretically allow optical radar systems employing laser transmitters to achieve considerably improved receiver sensitivity, particularly in conditions of high background radiation. However, there are many practical factors that can limit sensitivity in coherent optical detection, which are described. It is shown that to achieve an efficient coherent optical radar, one would generally like a pulse width less than 10 µsec and a spectral line width less than 10 Mc."
"The authors will describe a practical solid-state device for the implementation of majority logic. The increasing importance and utilization of majority logic in logical design has necessitated the investigation and evaluation of highly linear devices and techniques. The Linotron is a solid-state device that can be made by both film and bulk techniques. High accuracy and high linearity are theoretically possible. A detailed theory of operation has been worked out. The theoretical approach is backed up by considerable experimental evidence using various materials for its implementation. Preliminary investigation indicates that the reliability of this device should be higher than that of most active circuits; since the operation is based upon the flow of majority carriers, high reliability can be obtained without special packaging techniques or hermetic seals. Equivalent circuits for the device have been determined and the description of operation will be discussed in light of these circuits. The characteristics of various modifications in the device will be examined in light of thermal characteristics. It appears that the process can be easily adopted to mass production techniques and an extremely low cost logic element can result. It is felt that this unique device will make the utilization of majority logic practical in large applications."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A reactance amplifier has been constructed which is capable of low-noise amplification at audio and subaudio frequencies [1]. Stable voltage amplification of 20-30 db and noise figures as low as 0.16 db (50-K source resistance) have been observed for signal frequencies between 2 and 50 cps. The circuit configuration is a double sideband up-converter or modulator in which a band of frequencies from dc to several hundred cycles is used to modulate a 150-kc carrier. An analysis for noise and gain is presented which considers the average, fundamental, and second-harmonic components of the time-varying diode capacitance. The amplifier input is a signal at low audio frequency, while the output is composed of the sum and difference sidebands of the pump. Gain is realized through up-converter action associated with the frequency shift from signal frequency to near pump frequency; the sum and difference sidebands are further amplified in the output tank by the negative resistance resulting from the action of the component of time-varying capacitance at the second harmonic of the pump frequency. Gain and equivalent input noise resistance are discussed as functions of detuning in the passive output tank; measured and calculated results are compared. A scheme is also presented for stabilizing the amplifier at high values of negative resistance gain."
"Some of the factors involved in the design of a radar pulse compression system are discussed. These include the compression ratio, the detailed characteristics of the signal, the sidelobe level of the receiver output waveform (signal autocorrelation function), the sensitivity of the sidelobe level to Doppler frequency shift in the signal, and the relative complexity of the equipment required to generate and receive the signal. A signal of Gaussian envelope and linear frequency modulation is shown to have an autocorrelation function of Gaussian shape. When the receiver is designed to autocorrelate the linear FM Gaussian signal, it is shown that the shape of the receiver output waveform does not change when the input signal has a Doppler frequency shift. The design and construction of equipment used to generate and receive the signal are discussed. In operating equipment with a compression ratio of about 50 to one, sidelobe levels 40 db below the peak amplitude of the receiver output waveform are achieved, and the shape of the receiver output wave-form does not change appreciably until the Doppler frequency shift exceeds 25 per cent of the 3-db signal bandwidth."
"It is assumed that the mean time to failure and mean repair time are known for each of the subsystems of a system. The subsystems conform to the usual exponential failure (and repair) laws and their behaviors are mutually independent. The system includes redundant subsystems in active standby status. Whenever, after a system failure, repair of a failed subsystem re-establishes an adequate configuration, the system as a whole is returned to active status while repair of other failed subsystems (if any) continues. Under this set of assumptions, equations are developed which permit prediction of mean time to failure and mean down time for the system. The development differs somewhat from the use of birth-and-death equations which has been customary for similar problems in the past."
"The modal spectrum of a lossless, homogeneous and isotropic planar plasma layer is shown to contain contributions from surface waves and complex modes in addition to the usual continuous spectrum characteristic of open structures. These discrete contributions are only of the E-mode type and occur whenever the plasma dielectric constant εpis negative. The surface waves may be of the forward or the backward type and they carry power in opposite directions in the plasma and air regions. The complex modes are shown to appear always in degenerate pairs and as a consequence they carry no real power but may account for large reactive fields in the neighborhood of sources. For E modes with positive values of εp, and for all H modes, the spectrum is purely continuous; however, nonspectral leaky ways are then present which are significant in radiation considerations."
"A method is described for measuring dielectric properties at wavelengths near 1 mm. The particular material tested was a ferroelectric ceramic composition of 73 per cent barium titanate-27 per cent strontium titanate. Material properties were determined from transmission measurements through an interferometer, and the radiation was generated by a magnetic undulator. It was found that there was a marked dispersion in dielectric constant for this material in the range from 50-100 kMc."
"Starting from the physical sources of noise in junction transistors, an equivalent noise circuit for a high frequency mixer circuit is presented. By means of formulas which have been derived for normal amplifiers and mixers the noise current components in the collector circuit are computed. These noise current components at the intermediate frequency are due to diverse amplifying and mixing processes. The dependence of the derived noise factor upon working point, generator output resistance, frequency and oscillator voltage is verified. The noise figure exhibits a minimum not only as a function of the generator output resistance but also as a function of the collector direct current. The noise figure may be optimized by choosing appropriate values for the circuit components and the operating point. Finally, the application of the noise formula to a dc-stabilized mixer stage is presented."
"An analytical threshold criterion has been developed for the general phase-lock receiver utilizing Booton's quasi-linearization technique. This criterion is established for arbitrary information and noise spectral densities. The information is assumed phase- or frequency-encoded on the received signal. Explicit results are centered around the case of additive white Gaussian noise. The principal nonlinearity is assumed to be the phase detector which is represented as a product device. Threshold curves are derived for three types of signals: 1) Bandlimited phase-encoded white Gaussian signals, optimal receiver; 2) Bandlimited phase-encoded white Gaussian signals, second-order receiver; 3) Frequency-encoded white signals, optimal receiver. The phase-encoded white Gaussian signal threshold is then compared with Shannon's results. It was found that the optimal receiver threshold occurs 10 log10(e) or 4.34 db above Shannon's limit. The second-order receiver was found to threshold 2 to 3 db above the optimal receiver in the region of normally encountered output signal-to-noise power ratios. Frequency-encoded white signals represent the character of residual noise in a communication link oscillator system. Residual frequency noise is induced by the ever present thermal noise in oscillator circuits. This particular thermal-induced noise cannot be removed entirely. For this fundamental noise process maximum receiver sensitivities are derived. An interesting result of quasi-linearization is that, for the signals considered, previous solutions of the Wiener-Hopf equation may be applied with only slight modifications."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Topics discussed include the March IEEE Meeting, the first IEEE Board Meeting (on January 8 and 9) and the new badge of our Institute, featuring electromagnetic law as a fundamental of our science, rather than calling attention to any arbitrary and temporal grouping of letters."
"A brief professional biography is given for Dr. Bernard M. Oliver (A'40 - M'46 - SM'53 - F'54) Vice President, 1963."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This IRE standard provides definitions for: Effective Input Noise Temperature, (of a multiport transducer with one port designated as the output port); Effective Input Noise Temperature, (of a rnultiport transducer with one port designated as the output port); Operating Noise Temperature (of a system under operating conditions); and Operating Noise Temperature, (of a system under operating conditions)."
"This paper describes a new type of planar thin-film cryotron namely, an in-line cryotron, and compares its advantages to the crossed-film cryotron. This cryotron has its gate and control elements superimposed and parallel, or in-line, whereas the crossed-film device has its gate and control elements crossed at right angles. The gain curve for the in-line cryotron has a region where incremental gains of one to ten may be obtained without a change in the gate-to-control width ratio Wg/Wc whereas large gains are not possible for the crossed-film cryotron without altering the width ratio. Larger gate resistances are possible within the in-line cryotron and calculations are given to show it is feasible to properly terminate low impedance strip transmission lines with characteristic impedances in the range of 0.1 to 1.0 ohms. It is necessary to properly terminate the strip transmission lines commonly used in superconducting circuit fabrication in order to achieve the maximum circuit switching speeds. Other advantages and the disadvantages of the in-line cryton are also discussed."
"The newer, more efficient data transmission systems which are designed to combat channel variations or interference, or both, require information concerning the channel variations for proper operation. Although it is seldom recognized, such systems must receive and process two distinct types of information. The first, and quite obvious, type of information concerns the intelligence signal which is provided as an output from the receiving terminal of the system. The second, and much less obvious, type of information concerns medium variations. This information is normally used internally at the receiver terminal in order that proper processing of of the received signal may be obtained. As the channel SNR progressively worsens, the total information capacity of the channel must of necessity decrease. Eventually the total information capacity of the channel becomes so small that the receiver is denied the required information concerning medium variations and proper operation of systems of the above type is no longer possible. This paper is concerned with the limiting case of very small channel SNR's that are below the level required for analysis of the medium at the receiver. The channel capacity of an ideal or nonfading channel is derived for reference purposes and in order that an estimate of the information rate loss due to medium variations at low SNR's may be obtained. The problem of data transmission over a fading channel under conditions of intense interference is approached in an intuitive manner. A system for operation under such conditions is proposed which appears to offer the best performance possible. The performance of this proposed system is then analyzed to yield capacity formulas for the conditions specified. No proof is given that the system proposed is, in fact, ideal but the resulting capacity formulas are believed to be correct in form and sufficiently accurate in a quantitative sense for useful practical application. The mathematical approach used is sufficiently general to permit inclusion of random system variations (such as oscillator phase) as part of the medium variations and hence the results are believed to be applicable to a wide variety of communications situations including deep-space probe telemetry."
"At higher frequencies the gate noise of a field effect transistor increases rapidly with increasing frequency. This effect is here attributed to the thermal noise of the conducting channel and is caused by the capacitive coupling between the channel and the gate. The noise is represented by gate and drain noise current generators igand id, respectively; an approximation method is developed that allows calculation of ig2, id2and ig× idfor moderately high frequencies. The correlation coefficient of igand idis imaginary and amounts to about 0.40j under saturated conditions, ig2can be expressed in terms of the noise resistance Rn, and the gate-source capacitance Cgs.It is shown that the correlation has only a slight influence on the noise figure F and that (Fmin- 1) varies as ωCgsRnover a wide frequency range."
"For a resonant cavity composed of a section of transmission line, shorted at both ends, an equation relating the unloaded Q of the cavity to the attenuation constant alpha of the line was recently reported by Yeh [ibid., vol. 50. p. 2145, October, 1962]. He derived the relation between alpha and the phase constant (beta) in terms of phase velocity and group velocity of the line under the assumptions that the shorting plates do not contribute to the loss and that alpha is small compared to the phase constant beta. It is the purpose of this note to show that the assumption alpha be much smaller than beta is not necessary."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only, as given. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"Summary form only. An abstract of the above-titled article, taken from the 1963 IEEE International Convention (held March 25-28, New York, NY, USA), is presented."
"This small volume covers information available up to about the winter of 1961 on the intensity of various types of particulate and high energy electromagnetic radiation in space beginning at the upper limits of Earth's atmosphere and extending into interplanatary reaches. Geomagnetically trapped radiation as well as galactic, and cosmic radiation is discussed. The book is concerned with the effect of space radiation on engineering materials, and herein lies its value for a significant group of radio and electronic engineers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Some interesting curves result when whistler data are averaged over a long period of time to smooth out random short-term variations in whistler generation and propagation. Local season is such a strong factor in determining the shape of the diurnal curves of observed whistler activity that even in the case of the north-south \"Whistlers-East\" chain of audio-frequency receiving stations, diurnal curves of the northern- and southern-hemisphere stations tend to be similar not during the same period of the year but during the same local season at the point of observation. A basic form of the diurnal curves appears to be one which is symmetrical about local midnight with a deep minimum at local noon and relatively high nighttime activity showing maxima at about 2000, 2400 and 0400 hours local time. Depending on local season and location of the station, one or more of these peaks may be absent or enhanced. It is concluded that the shape of the diurnal curves is determined largely by the conditions of whistler propagation rather than of generation. The curves presented should therefore be useful in predicting the behavior of man-made signals propagating in the \"whistler mode\" through the ionosphere and the magnetosphere of the earth. Some difficulties are pointed out with the prevalent idea that the marked depression in the occurrence of whistler-mode signals in the daytime is primarily the result of absorption of these waves in passing through the D layer. On the other hand, caution is advised against neglecting ionospheric factors, other than D-region absorption, in deference to the role of field-aligned ducts of enhanced ionization in the magnetosphere. Finally, some results are presented which show that, in addition to a latitude variation of the dependence of whistler rate upon the Kpindex of geomagnetic disturbance, there is, especially at the lower latitude stations, a seasonal variation of these curves as well. Of particular interest also is the observation that, at the higher latitude stations where the maximum whistler rate obtains at low values of Kp, the rate decreases almost linearly with greater values of Kp."
"This paper describes a program for disseminating state-of-the-art information concerning accuracies in certain electrical measurements. The program is to be carried out by IRE Subcommittee 25.1, Basic Standards and Calibration Methods, who will employ task groups made up of representatives from industrial, government, and educational institutions for assistance in assembling information and preparing reports. The initiation of the work has been approved by IRE Committee 25, Measurements and Instrumentation, and IRE Committee 20, Standards. A discussion is given of the needs, plans, procedures and benefits of the program. Since the entire electrical industry can benefit greatly by this effort, this paper is being published so that members of the IRE can become acquainted with it and submit constructive suggestions for the implementation and extension of the program."
"A new method of measurement of recombination effects in semiconductors is described. Germanium and silicon slabs are prepared to fill the cross section of a waveguide and changes in microwave transmission as a function of conductivity of the semiconductor provide a direct measurement of lifetime. It is shown that under specific conditions of thickness of the sample a linear relationship exists between the transmitted power and the conductivity, even when the conductivity approaches the value of the product of angular frequency and permittivity. Furthermore, the new technique of lifetime measurement is simpler than previously described microwave and conventional dc methods and can be used to cover a broader range of conductivities. Experimental data are given to illustrate the principles."
"A piecewise-linear network can produce an output proportional to the square root of the sum of the squares of a set of input voltages, using resistors and diodes alone. The required relationship between voltages can be represented by a multi-dimensional cone; the approximation replaces this cone by an inscribed pyramid. The resulting circuits have a dynamic range equal to that of the diodes from forward conduction point to reverse breakdown. Practical circuits are given which find the root sum of two squares to within 3 per cent of the correct value with only eight diodes. Formulas show that the number of diodes depends roughly inversely on the square root of the maximum allowable per cent error."
"This paper deals with the cumulative detection probability of a search radar when it is scanning uniformly. This is the probability that a target, approaching the radar at a constant radial velocity, is detected at least once by the time it reaches a given range, as distinguished from the more common blip-scan ratio (a single-scan detection probability). It is shown that for constant-velocity targets the range for a given cumulative-detection probability varies as the cube root of the power-aperture product, rather than as the fourth root. Curves of cumulative detection probability, as a function of normalized range, are given for three different target scintillation models. Also, curves of optimum (normalized) frame time, are given as a function of the desired cumulative detection probability for each of the three target scintillation characteristics."
"A simple method of measurement of ruby laser outputs by reflecting the laser light in a BaSO4diffuse reflector and measuring the diffused light in a photocell is presented. Experimental results are given for two different lasers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper contains a review of recent work on photovoltaic cells fabricated from semiconductors other than silicon; the effects of radiation on silicon n/p and p/n cells, and gallium arsenide p/n cells; and thin film photovoltaic cells."
"A theoretical investigation into the effects of electrostatic drift fields in the diffused region and in the base region of photovoltaic solar energy converter cells has been carried out. Expressions for a single-layer and a two-layer model for each of the two regions have been evolved. These expressions have been applied to the study of the semiconductor parameters in the diffused region with and without drift field. The applicability of surface recombination velocities in the normal expected range has been established, and the introduction of a drift field in the diffused region has been found to necessitate only a decrease of the minority carrier lifetime by a factor of 4.4 compared to the field free case. Further, a study of the effect of drift fields in the base region of solar cells upon the rate of their performance degradation due to nuclear particle irradiation has shown that drift fields in the base region can considerably reduce the radiation damage rate and increase the useful life of solar cells in the Van Allen belt environments by about an order of magnitude over that of present \"n on p\" radiation resistant silicon solar cells. Various configurations of the drift fields in the base layer, including arrangement in one and two layers with drift field, were investigated in order to find the most promising layout for the achievement of the slowest degradation rates, and to lay the groundwork for future device design work. Data for the more promising configurations are given."
"The concept of a thermo-photo-voltaic (TPV) energy converter is introduced and the device compared with thermoelectric and thermionic converters. Features of the TPV converter are that the entire device is kept at room temperature; potential power densities on the order of 10 w/cm2, and potential conversion efficiencies of 30 per cent are possible. Considerations for TPV converter design are presented and compared with solar cells. Use of geometry and thin-film optical filters to improve efficiency is discussed. For a germanium converter operating with a hot source in the neighborhood of 1600°C a p-i-n structure with the absorption taking place in the intrinsic base region is shown to give maximum efficiency. A measured efficiency of 4.23 per cent on an experimental converter with 282 mw/cm2incident energy has been achieved."
"The relation between the thermoelectric figure of merit Z and the basic properties of the material such as carrier mobilities, band structure, thermal conductivity and minority carrier lifetime is discussed. For isotropic materials with parabolic bands it is shown that the figure of merit based on the Seebeck coefficient will increase when a magnetic field is applied, if acoustic-mode scattering is predominant. If optical-mode scattering is predominant, the figure of merit will increase if ZT>0.77. Materials for devices based upon the Nernst or Ettingshausen effects will have large figures of merit only if 1) (m*)3/2µ/κL is large, 2) the energy gap is less than kT, and 3) the electron and hole mobilities are similar. Materials requirements for Nernst- and Seebeck-type devices are compared."
"This work is a review of the technical developments that have led from early semiconductor research to the emergence of the thermoelectric generator as a rapidly growing power source of high reliability."
"The advantages of thermoelectric refrigeration, some of its possible applications and its principles of operation are briefly presented. The current state of the art in thermoelectric materials is discussed. The design problems in developing thermoelectric devices and some of the current techniques used to solve them are reviewed. Some information is provided on devices that have been built for the U. S. Navy and for commercial application."
"One of the primary reasons for the failure of thermionic converters to attain their ultimate theoretical performance is electron transport effects occurring in the interelectrode spacing. Two major types of transport effects, electron scattering and electron space charge, are discussed and theoretical results compared with experimental data. The uniform plasma theory is reviewed and experimental data show that for a monocrystal emitter this theory is consistent with the energy equation. Space charge neutralization is discussed. Both surface ionization and volume ionization are considered. Experimental results indicate that surface ionization is not as effective as would be expected by theory. This fact is responsible for the discrepancy between theoretically expected and experimentally obtained performance of converters. Under the conditions where surface ionization is inadequate for space charge neutralization, volume ionization can provide the necessary ions. Volume ionization, however, is achieved at the expense of the output power of the converter."
"Emission processes establish the upper limit of the performance obtainable in the thermionic converter. This paper briefly introduces the basic factors which must be considered to achieve this limit and outlines recent developments in the related technology. The basic elements of thermal excitation common to these processes are outlined and the results are used to illustrate the interdependence of the atom, electron and ion emission processes. The constraints imposed by this interdependence imply the existence of a natural limitation on vaporization lifetime for efficient operation using elementary emitter materials. This limitation is overcome by the use of emitters with an adsorbed layer of cesium and constraints imposed by the interdependence of the emission processes prescribe regions of efficient operation of these emitters. Consideration of the basic processes occurring in the adsorbed layer permits semiquantitative evaluation of the relative merit of different materials for use as emitters and collectors. The effect of nonuniform surfaces is reviewed and work in progress to understand the nature and origin of the nonuniformities is discussed. Substantial improvement in converter performance and reproducibility is possible through the development of uniform and optimum electrode surfaces."
"An analysis of the cesium vapor arc discharge is presented. It is assumed that the discharge operates in the ball-of-fire mode, that cumulative ionization via the two resonance excited states is the predominant ionization mechanism, and that trapping in the plasma of the resonance radiation results in a long effective lifetime of the excited states. A volt-ampere characteristic is derived for the cesium arc and the results are applied to the thermionic energy converter. Good qualitative agreement is obtained between theory and experiment."
"Radio-frequency oscillations are observed in alkali vapor-filled thermionic diodes at low vapor pressure. A review of the experimental phenomena and attempts at quantitative theoretical understanding is given. Possible applications are for energy conversion and as a diagnostic tool."
"The space-charge potential theory in low-pressure thermionic converters is extended to cover emission of electrons at the anode as well as both ion and electron production at the cathode. The contribution of each of these three sources to the charge density is expressed as a function of potential for the ten most important cases. The first integrations of Poisson's equation are given for each of the cases. Previous analytical work by P. L. Auer and by the author reporting first integrations of Polsson's equation without anode emission appears as a special case in this paper. In addition, in each of the ten first-order differential equations there appears a term giving the contribution of anode emission. As before, analytical solution of the first-order differential equations is impossible. For illustrative purposes numerical solutions have been obtained on the IBM 704 computer. Comparison with previous numerical solutions reported by the-author show the effect of anode emission on the space-charge potential in the diode. Also shown in figures is the effect of the variation of parameters for certain selected cases."
"Many studies about cesium plasma cells have been reported, but it seemed to the authors that there were few in which one could combine experimental results with theoretical ones in the sense that these experimental studies were carried out only in an operating region of almost constant cathode work function, that is, considerably high cathode temperatures. Our measurements were done only in the region of low cathode temperature and low gas pressure in which the interelectrode spacing was less than the mean free path of electrons, in order to examine these theories. The efficiency agreed well with one of these theories. Open-circuit voltage was also observed."
"In this paper a brief review is given of the basic principles of MHD power generation and its current status. The remainder of the paper will discuss the problem of obtaining the level of gas ionization required for MHD generation."
"This report on fuel cell research on the European continent deals with the main lines of present activities, i.e., high temperature cells with semi-solid electrolytes, the Bacon HYDROX cell operating at medium temperatures and high pressures and the electrochemical energy converters operating at ambient temperature and pressure. The author devotes the main part of his report to these low temperature types including the Double Skeleton Catalyst (\"DSK\") system of the German Fuel Cell Consortium, the Swiss Monoskeleton (\"MSK\") system and the German system of dissolving a liquid carbonaceous fuel such as methanol in a cell with catalytically different electrodes. In addition, various applications of such cells, e.g., for storage of electrical energy by electrolysis of water and subsequent recombination of hydrogen and oxygen are reviewed."
"A survey is made of three types of primary fuel cell systems now in battery engineering phases. The three cell types are: 1) those using aqueous electrolytes; 2) those using molten electrolytes; and 3) those with solid electrolytes. Ten aqueous-electrolyte cell systems, six molten-electrolyte cell systems, and three solid-electrolyte cell systems are reviewed. Seventy-eight references are cited."
"Fuel cells have emerged from the research laboratories and are now in the state of being actively developed for various military and commercial purposes. The paper tries to describe the principal problems which had to be overcome to build reliably operating, relatively inexpensive cells. The different systems presently used are compared with each other and the possibility of the use of cheap hydrocarbon fuels in low temperature cells is discussed."
"The action of Desulfovibrio bacteria has been observed in a prototype biochemical fuel cell The catabolic action of this microorganism m a properly balanced system, i.e., containing proper electrolyte-nutrient and bio-fuel combination, shows promise of yielding a practical, low-power biochemical fuel cell generator. Best results to date have been obtained with fresh mushroom as the bio-fuel where power levels of 1540 µW per square inch have been achieved. Further experimentation planned in this laboratory will be directed at improving the power constancy at the higher current-voltage drainage rates. Concurrently with these advanced studies we will attempt to learn if more rapid catabolic action can be realized at the electrode surface (anode), correspondingly producing higher electrical currents."
"This paper is a presentation of some of those aspects of electrode kinetics which would be of use to scientists and engineers working on fuel cells. It is intended as an introduction to the relevant theory of electrode kinetics. It does not give details of testing circuitry, nor does it review papers on electrode kinetics or fuel cell investigations. A brief mention is made of the application of the basic concepts to porous electrode structures."
"The subject is reviewed and recent experimental and theoretical results are presented. It is shown that materials with high polarization and high dielectric strength can yield good conversion efficiencies. Very high specific outputs are calculated for the conversion of uncollected solar radiation by a spinning space vehicle. Such high specific outputs require suitable thin ferroelectric films of high thermal shock resistance. These requirements can not be met in present experimental converters. Approaches for the improvement of insulation resistance and polarization are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The transmission system of \"frequency modulation\" (transmission by variation of the frequency of the radiated wave) is mathematically analyzed, and the width of the band of frequencies occupied by this method of transmission at a given speed is compared with the width of the corresponding band for transmission by amplitude variation. It is proved that the frequency modulation system using a spacing or compensating wave is inferior to the amplitude variation system both as to the width of the frequency band occupied and as to distortion of signal waveform."
"The electrical characteristics of the earth's crust and of the materials forming it are of great interest to those dealing with waves propagated over the earth's surface, particularly at frequencies below 106cps. In addition, recent advances in geophysical prospecting have been made by employing electromagnetic techniques. Both of these facts indicated the importance of knowing the effects of earth's crust materials upon electromagnetic waves. An over-all picture of the earth and its environment is first presented including the types of materials involved. Techniques for measuring electrical properties of materials with emphasis on in situ methods are next given. The conductivity of numerous types of earth materials is considered and results presented in tabular form for ready reference. Finally, the likely variation in conductivity with depth below the surface is considered."
"The pass band and gain of cascaded linear-amplifier stage is limited by the shunt reactance of the Miller impedance presented by the following stage. This paper presents a method of utilizing the Miller effect to provide control of bandwidth, stability and loading resulting in greatly improved video-amplifier performance. The design illustration provides more than 5500-Mc voltage gain-bandwidth product with a power gain better than one billion (109) without using inductive components. The voltage gain change from 55°C to 85°C is less than 1 db as is the voltage gain change for ±30 per cent variations in power-supply voltage. The wide-band noise figure is 1.6 db. Topics discussed are: 1) Deliberate loading by Miller effect, 2) Stability control by Miller effect, 3) Bandwidth control by Miller effect."
"In this investigation a variant of the system identification problem has been solved using growing exponentials as the input signal to the system. The system contained two parameters whose values could be varied above and below nominal values. A probing signal basis composed of growing exponentials was matched to the space of patterns defined by small variations in the parameters of the system. The optimum probing signal within the signal space was then selected so as to minimize the covariance matrix of the errors in the measurement of these parameters as the optimizing criterion. Experimental results show that by properly filtering and measuring the response of the system to this optimized probing signal, we may detect and independently measure the simultaneous deviations in the system parameters."
"This paper describes a content addressable memory system in which logic is distributed throughout the system. The memory is made up of cells. Each cell is a small finite-state machine which can communicate with its neighbors. These cells are controlled through a set of programming commands. The application of this memory to several problems related to information retrieval is discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Commonly introductory texts on circuit theory present in tandem the loop and node formulations of the equilibrium equations, and show how these relate to each other through the duality principle. Whereas this approach understandably appeals to those already well versed in basic definitions (voltage, current, impedance, admittance, etc.), evidence exists that the early undergraduate is confused by this approach. Trying to learn at one time multiple concepts that are so very similar in some ways, but different in others, appears to increase the conceptual difficulty of the material rather strikingly. This paper reports two experiments with college sophomores. Both show that intermingling of dual concepts leads to serious interference in learning. It is suggested that students should master thoroughly one set of principles for solving circuit problems before the dual set is presented. This suggestion conforms with the approach exemplified by the older texts on circuit theory."
"Experimental field-emission microwave devices (\"femitrons\") are described which locate a cold field-emission cathode in the gap of a cavity resonator to achieve direct emission bunching of the electron beam. These devices exploit the high emission density and strong nonlinearity of field cathodes to produce beams with high current density, strong bunching and high harmonic content. An analysis of beam bunching and harmonic content is presented, based on certain assumptions and particularly on the validity of the field-emission law at microwave frequencies. Several independent experiments are discussed which verify these assumptions and confirm the predicted bunching and harmonic content, thus establishing the feasibility of developing femitrons into high-efficiency amplifiers or oscillators, or for the performance of nonlinear operations such as frequency mixing, harmonic generation or rectification of microwave power. Recent developments and current performance of compact multiple-needle field cathodes with relatively high peak current and perveance capability are presented. Based on these, and on preliminary tests at intermediate power levels of microwave devices using such cathodes, a brief evaluation is made of the probable performance and possible applications of femitron devices."
"The paper discusses the question of man's value in systems and why the topic has arisen. Personnel impact on reliability of man-machine systems is discussed. What is presently being done, what remains to be accomplished and methods for improving the reliability of people in systems are outlined. Suggestions for making use of man's inherent reliability to improve systems lead to a discussion of how management can enhance man's contribution to the reliability of the system in which he operates. A discussion of cost of this effort completes the presentation."
"The delay time involved in switching indium cryotrons is investigated as a function of the applied magnetic control fields. For overdrive fields greater than the isothermal critical magnetic field, but smaller than the constant-entropy critical magnetic field, the rate of transition appears to be controlled by the rate of supply of latent heat from the environment. In this range of overdrive, delay times (for build-up of full resistance) experimentally determined and calculated with overdrive and temperature as controlled variables are in the range of 0.1 to 1 µsec in good quantitative agreement. For overdrive fields 40 per cent above the critical magnetic field, the delay times (10 to 40 nsec) for build-up of full resistance are unexpectedly long compared to the phase propagation time through the film (less than 1 nsec) computed from Pippard's equations for eddy-current delay. Indeed, the normal phase appears to nucleate first in isolated regions from which it propagates laterally (i.e., in the plane of the film) to provide for a rather continuous increase in resistance from the time the pulse is started until the transition is complete. Thus, the major delay in the completion of the transition is probably associated with the time taken to propagate the phase between the various nucleation sites. The propagation distance, i.e., the distance between nucleation centers, is then calculated to be several microns. Methods of decreasing the delay time are discussed."
"This classic report, written in 1943 by Dwight O. North, appears here for the first time in a publication readily available to the engineering profession, although it was issued as a militarysecurity- classified report during World War II (RCA Laboratories Report PTR-6C, dated June 25, 1943). It is reprinted here because of its historical importance and because it is still a basic but otherwise unavailable reference of great value in current research."
"The smallest signal discernible through background noise is formulated in terms of the pulse energy, its repetition rate, the receiver design, and the choice of integrating and indicating means. The smallest signal visible on a Type-A scan can be improved upon by the use of electromechanical integrators. Integration before detection is, in theory, ultimately the most effective, but runs into serious practical difficulties. These are avoided when the integration is performed after detection. Optimum predetector selectivity is formulated. The optimum detector (square law) is found, and other detectors compared. A transmitter criterion provides a basis for comparing the effectiveness of transmitters, and shows how, at the expense of range resolution, longer pulses can increase visibility."
"Diffusion as classically known is based on Fick's law, which describes the rate of flow of the diffusing particles in terms of their density gradient. Recently, a new formulation has been suggested by M.A. Melehy [\"A fundamental extension of Einstein’s diffusion-mobility relationship,\" Nature (to be published)] which is based on forces rather than flow rates. The purpose of this communication is to discuss some simple aspects of the new formulation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Effective January, 1964, the IEEE will publish two monthly periodicals. One will be a totally new publication titled IEEE SPECTRUM, which will be distributed to all members, except student members. Its primary editorial mission will be to present technical articles of high professional quality, written tob e meaningful to a wide audience. The subject matter will cover the entire spectrum of electrical and electronics engineering. Special emphasis will be placed on the clarity of the articles - both staff written and contributed by leading authorities in the field - to ensure that members can grasp and keep abreast of important technical developments outside their own particular fields of specialization. The IEEE SPECTRUM will include review, tutorial, and application papers; occasional theoretical papers of outstanding significance; news of the profession and of the Institute; letters to the editor; abstracts; book reviews and other departments. A second monthlyp eriodical, PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE, will be available to members and nonmembers on a subscription basis. A continuation of the present publication of that title, but expanded to embrace all fields served by the IEEE, the PROCEEDINGS will be a research-oriented journal for advanced papers of broad and lasting significance. It will provide an avenue for the electrical and electronics engineering field. Special issues will be published from time to time to lay a foundation for the development of newly emerging fields. In addition to the periodicals announced today, the Institute will continue to publish the IEEE TRANSACTIONS in each of a number of specialized fields, now totalling 33, that are served by IEEE Professional Technical Groups and Technical Committees. The IEEE STUDENT JOURNAL will continue to be published for 27,000 student members. Also, there will be special publications devoted to convention and conference papers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The action of the audion as a detector and simple amplifier is explained, with the method of verification of the theory by means of oscillograms. To reinforce the oscillations in the grid circuit two methods are employed: first, to couple the grid circuit to the wing circuit and arrange the latter to permit audio frequency currents to pass freely in it; and second, to use a large inductance in the wing circuit, thereby tuning it to the incoming frequency (in conjunction with the capacity between the filament and wing in the audion itself). Both methods may be used together. Various methods of coupling grid and wing circuits are shown. Methods of combined audio and radio-frequency amplification are described. The audion, being a generator of alternating current of any desired frequency, can be used as a beat receiver. A steady audion generator of regular groups of radio frequency oscillations is illustrated. Various methods of audio frequency tuning permitting high selectivity are possible. By the use of two audions in cascade, amplifications as high as 1000 are attainable. The cascade systems can be arranged so as to operate both audions either synchronously or nonsynchronously. As an alternative to beat reception of sustained wave signals, an arrangement is explained wherein the amplifying ratio of a repeating audion is varied periodically at an audio frequency. Coupled to this system is a simple audion detector. Musical signals of any desired pitch are thus obtained. It is found that static of large amplitude nearly always decreases the wing current, while signal (with beat reception) alternately increases and decreases it. A system of circuits is described whereby this fact is taken advantage of in balancing out static while retaining an additive response to signals, thus effecting an elimination of static to a considerable extent. Finally, instances of long distance stations received and interference overcome in practice are given."
"This paper presents the basic concepts, design details, and construction techniques used in the development of an advanced type of self-organised image filter. The filter has the capability of recognizing and classifying three-dimensional objects regardless of their size and orientation with respect to the viewing mechanism. The applications of the techniques include reconnaissance, photo interpretation, and star field recognition for space probes. Self-organization was used as a design tool only; the decision filter itself is not adaptive. Design principles described here are directly applicable to an even wider variety of problems in the broad areas of communication and data processing. A natural selection process of eliminating elements of marginal utility enables a significant reduction of network size without adversely affecting its classification capability. Full advantage was taken of the self-organization process to minimize the engineering design task involved. Many of the features described have not previously been reported in the literature."
"A discussion is presented of photoemission and photomultipliers for the practical user of phototubes with emphasis on those parameters of importance in applications such as scintillation counting. A short description of the physics of photoemission is followed by a discussion of photosensitivity, temperature dependence of photoemission, effect of cathode resistivity, response time, effect of initial velocity on transit time dispersion and ultraviolet photo-emitters."
"The application of the electron spin echo phenomenon to the detection of chirped microwave pulses is considered. The attainable time resolution is determined by the width of the paramagnetic resonance line, and the length of the received waveform is limited by the phase memory time of the spin packets in the active material. Pulse compressions of 1000:1 appear to be feasible. A typical device of this kind would require to be operated at liquid helium temperatures. It could be adapted so that in itself it provided maser amplification of the compressed pulses."
"Expressions for the power conversion capability and the efficiency of frequency doublers using fully-driven varactor diodes are derived from a series resistance-elastance model of the diode. Available methods of determining power and efficiency of graded and abrupt junction diodes are shown to be special cases of the derived expressions. The power and efficiency expressions as functions of the diode exponent may be used to describe the performance of frequency doublers using diodes with a wide range of capacitance-voltage non-linearities. Superior doubler performance is indicated for a specific class of diodes."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Because the spectral distribution of energy from more distant galaxies is progressively shifted to longer wavelengths by the red shift, infrared astronomy holds promise of providing new information for investigating the various theories of cosmology. When the anticipated infrared flux density is related to our present instrumentation capability it appears that important conclusions can be drawn from relatively simple measurements taken with special radiometers carried above the earth's atmosphere by rockets. From this vantage point measurements of the infrared flux coming from selected dark regions of the night sky are reasonably typical of deep space and should tell us whether the universe is in a steady state or whether it has evolved from a much denser configuration."
"The device discussed in this paper represents a significant departure from the conventional unipolar transistor in that the reverse-biased p-n junction has been superseded by a Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (MOS) control structure. This structure can be used to enhance as well as deplete the charge near the surface of the semiconductor. A simple model is proposed and the basic transistor current-voltage relationships are derived for the case of a thick oxide and shallow conducting channel. This case is in contrast to the p-n junction-type described by Shockley, the latter being analogous to a very thin oxide and a deep uniformly doped channel. A more detailed model is subsequently proposed in order to explain some experimentally observed anomalies for units not adequately described by the simpler model. In particular, the usual approximation of constant current in the saturation region is abandoned and consideration is given to the behavior of the drain resistance in this region. It is found that the relations predicting and describing this behavior are closely analogous to similar relations for vacuum tubes. Experimental data from units to which this model may be applied has shown close agreement with the theoretical predictions. Breakdown in the channel is also investigated and found to be a double-valued function of the gate voltage. For low-gate voltages the breakdown is induced directly by the drain-to-source field and occurs across the constricted portion of the channel near the drain. For higher-gate voltages carrier generation is induced directly by the gate-to-drain field with the source-to-drain sweep field acting to remove the impact ionized and/or field emitted carriers. Brief consideration is also given to the question of the validity of using Boltzmann or Fermi-Dirac statistics in devices which are not necessarily in thermal equilibrium. The use of these statistics to predict the formation of a gate-field-induced inversion layer at the oxide-silicon interface in typical depletion-type transistors is found to be unjustified. This is due to generation and flow rate limitations on the source of the carriers which form this layer, and contrasts with the case of the induced channel-type unit for which the use of these statistics appears justified. Experimental evidence regarding saturation and complete pinch-off of drain current has indicated that the inversion layer does, in fact, fail to exist, as predicted, for the depletion-type transistor. Units fabricated to date have the following typical characteristics: input impedance, 7 µµf, 10+15ohms; transconductance, 2000 µmhos; cutoff bias,-7 volts (depletion unit); rise time, 10 nsec. The yield of units has averaged over 95 per cent on recently fabricated wafers, indicating great promise for integrated electronics applications."
"It is well known that the reliability of a circuit can be increased by designing it for worst-case conditions so that, even if component characteristics drift, the circuit will still operate satisfactorily. However, it is shown in this paper that extreme worst-case design can lead to increased operating temperature and, therefore, again reduced reliability. A method, illustrated by two practical examples, is indicated to find the compromise in component and circuit design tolerances leading to maximum reliability at any specified time or over any specified time interval."
"To date, nanosecond circuitry has been based mainly on two devices--the transistor and the tunnel diode. Unfortunately, the speed advantages of the tunnel diode cannot be utilized because the current gain is limited by practical tolerance requirements. Therefore, any circuits designed \"around\" these two devices are either practical, but limited to the speed of the transistor, or impractical, for general purpose logic, with the speed performance of the tunnel diode. The region of the tunnel diode gain bandwidth curve which is limited by tolerances can be exploited by using a storage diode as an interstage current amplifier or charge transformer. The operation of the storage diode is discussed, and charge gain bandwidth criteria are developed from the physical equations describing the device. Charge control switching curves are developed for the tnnnel diode which define its operation as a charge amplifier. The combination of tunnel diode and charge transformer (TDCT Logic) enables a wide variety of logic functions to be obtained with a gain bandwidth tolerance performance previously unattainable in nanosecond logic circuitry. To demonstrate this capability a novel \"NOR\" circuit is described and a worse case analysis of the fan out tolerance performance is given in the Appendix."
"Components and techniques have been developed which substantially increase the frequency range over which superheterodyne-type radiometers are practical. High-sensitivity radiometers have been built to operate at frequencies within the 2.1-mm and 1.3-mm atmospheric absorption windows. Through the use of harmonic mixing reasonably priced and readily available 4-mm reflex klystrons were used as local oscillator sources for each of these radiometers. The LO noise problem, which is particularly critical at the shorter mm wavelengths, was circumvented through the use of a microwave intermediate frequency. The use of such a high IF eliminated the need for a balanced mixer and made it feasible to obtain a large IF bandwidth (1.5 Gc) which substantially further improved the thermal sensitivity of these radiometers. With a 10- second integration time, minimum detectable temperature differences of 0.3°C and 1.0°C were obtained with the 140-Gc and 225-Gc radiometers, respectively. Preliminary atmospheric absorption measurements made with these radiometers indicate a total vertical attenuation of 1.8 db at 138 Gc and 4.5 db at 225 Gc."
"A study was undertaken for preparing low threshold GaAs laser materials. Optimum results were obtained by using boat grown GaAs (Te doped with an electron concentration of 1-2 xlO18cm-3). Extremely planar junctions resulted from diffusing Zn out of ZnAs2 source into the n-type substrates at 85O°C for 24 hours. Large area contacts giving uniform current distribution were found essential for low thresholds."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The United Engineering Center, at the United Nations Plaza in New York, serves as the headquarters of IEEE and of 20 other engineering societies and joint engineering bodies. First occupied in 1961, this imposing and useful structure was built through the contributions of engineers and industry amounting to almost $8.5 million, and it has since served as a focus for the activities of over 365,000 members of the engineering professions. The funds initially raised were not sufficient to meet the full cost of construction, leaving a net deficit of $560,000. To raise the sum of $900,000, which will complete the Center and leave it free of debt, the Trustees have announced a fund raising campaign. The Ford Foundation has agreed to contribute one dollar to the fund for each two dollars raised within two years, to a maximum of $300,000. The remaining $600,000 is to be raised in a campaign headed by Dr. Mervin J. Kelly."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A thermistor is defined in conjunction with its application as a two-terminal circuit element. The three major thermistor characteristics, by which all applications are classified, are defined and discussed. Of the three characteristics, the static voltage-current characteristic is the subject of emphasis in the discussion, with mention made of both the corresponding applications and the theoretical and practical limitations on the performance of the incorporated thermistors. Small-and large-signal analysis techniques are described and a small-signal equivalent circuit for a thermistor is developed. Both the large- and small-signal analysis techniques are applied to typical thermistor sensor stage circuits wherein the operation of the thermistor is defined by its static voltage-current characteristic. It is shown that the thermistor small-signal analysis, as based on the application of a thermistor small-signal equivalent circuit, and the large-signal analysis, as accomplished by graphical techniques, are completely compatible with their respective counterparts in vacuum tube analysis. As an illustrative example, a thermal conductivity gas analyzer is designed and experimentally evaluated against its theoretical performance as predicted by large-signal analysis. Excellent agreement is shown. A portion of the total range of the gas analyzer is then chosen such as to be in keeping with the constraints imposed on the use of the small-signal equivalent circuit and, again, it is shown that the theoretical response is experimentally verified."
"An Automatic Phase Control (APC) System is analyzed in order to determine its response to frequency modulated signals, and narrow-band Gaussian noise. Emphasis is placed on the system's response to signals having \"ramp\" type FM. The response of the APC System to an FM signal is obtained using a perturbation and a piecewise linear technique. The response of the system to noise is obtained using an iteration technique. The complete response to an FM signal and noise is then discussed using an iteration technique and extending the results previously obtained."
"The optimum demodulator for time-varying Poisson processes is derived from consideration of the likelihood ratio. In the case of high background level radiation, it has been found that the optimum signal processing is cross-correlation. Under an average energy constraint and conditions of high background radiation, an optimum binary signaling method is \"on-off\" modulation. For both binary signaling and radar purposes, the \"on\" waveform should be a narrow pulse in order to maximize the \"signal-to-noise\" ratio."
"Properties of titanium electrolytic capacitors produced by a newly developed oxidation process are described. Molten-salt electrolytes were utilized in the formation of the titanium oxide film. The characteristics of the titanium electrolytic capacitors are very similar to those of tantalum electrolytic capacitors except that the leakage current is somewhat larger. The results of life tests made on the titanium capacitors are presented."
"A mathematical model from which detection range may be predicted is developed. The model is specific to systems that base detection upon the exceeding of a threshold voltage by signal plus noise voltage. It is not restricted to a particular electromagnetic wavelength region. The model is applied to a passive infrared detection system. Normalized detection range is given in graphical form as a function of a wide range of values of normalized closure between scans, normalized range at initiation of scan, false alarm rate parameter, and degree of target scintillation, for probabilities of detection of 0.9, 0.7 and 0.5. Specification of the characteristics of a particular system-target-environment complex will allow rapid calculation of detection range for a prescribed probability of detection."
"Using large loop antennas the ultra-low-frequency research group at the National Bureau of Standards has studied the upper atmosphere phenomena of geomagnetic micropulsations. Data taken at a number of world stations on both direct reading chart and magnetic tape indicate a division into three contributing phenomena for the frequency range of 3.0 to 0.02 cps. Very regular oscillations of 2.0 to 0.2 cps are a strange pulsation phenomenon most likely of outer atmospheric origin but apparently unrelated to solar-terrestrial disturbances. Sudden bursts of large amplitude field fluctuations spread throughout the frequency range are closely related to high latitude particle precipitation, enhanced ionospheric absorption, and auroral luminosity; these fluctuations seem to be of ionospheric origin. Regular oscillations between 0.2 and 0.03 cps appearing over broad sections of the earth with related phase on days of high solar-terrestrial activity are presently the best candidate for magneto-hydrodynamic interpretation. During the International Quiet Sun Year (IQSY) a configuration of world stations will be operated along a latitudinal line covering about 180° at three sites in the boreal auroral zone, along a longitudinal line near 75° to 80°W longitude with conjugate stations corresponding to L shell values of about 6.5 and 4, and at an equatorial site."
"Complete dispersion characteristics are exhibited for electromagnetic waves propagating in a time-space periodically-modulated medium which is all-pass and dispersionless in the absence of the (pump) modulation. A rigorous solution, including all of the infinite number of time-space harmonics, is obtained for the linearized model, which also is representative of a traveling-wave parametric circuit. In contrast with previous work relating to traveling-wave parametric circuits, however, no assumptions are imposed on the present model regarding mode coupling. The dispersion relation is represented graphically in a form which is a generalization of the familiar one-dimensional Brillouin diagram for stationary periodic structures. From the repeated cell pattern one ascertains that for this medium only two types of interaction are possible, 1) stable interactions, of the stop-band type, associated with frequency conversion effects and 2) potentially unstable interactions, characterized by a stop band in wavenumber rather than in frequency. These types of interaction occur, respectively, when the phase velocity of the pump modulation is less than or greater than that of a signal in the unmodulated medium. Separating these two types of interaction is a \"sonic\" region, which appears whenever these two phase velocities are approximately equal The characteristics of the stable interactions and the sonic region are discussed in the present paper; the unstable interactions are considered in Part II (to be published at a later date). The amplitudes of several of the time-space harmonics have also been calculated and are shown to satisfy the Manley-Rowe relations in the stop bands; of particular interest is the role of the minor harmonics and the error introduced by using only two harmonics, as in coupled-mode theory."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The International Scientific Radio Union originated in a small meeting in Brussels in 1913; thus, it was celebrating its Golden Jubilee, or 50th anniversary, at its XIVth General Assembly in Tokyo in September, 1963. The following paper presents a very brief history of the URSI, with an account of its scientific objectives and its activities in relation to other scientific and technical bodies in the radio and allied fields. For a comprehensive account of the development and international work of the URSI, the reader may be referred to a volume shortly to be published."
"A recent method for the solution of problems at the boundary of nonlinear electromagnetic media is extended to the anisotropic case for the purpose of studying the mixing between two strong electromagnetic waves in crystals. The general solution for the wave at the beat frequency is first derived for an unbounded medium on the hypothesis of weak harmonic generation. The boundary conditions at the plane surface of a nonlinear dielectric are then considered and the polarization characteristics of the fundamental waves are examined with the aim of obtaining a more efficient mixing."
"The characteristics of an ideal detector are discussed and are compared with the practical results achieved with the following types of detectors: superheterodyne and video receivers using point-contact rectifiers; InSb photoconductive detectors, both wide-band and tunable; thermal detectors, including the Golay cell, and carbon, germanium and superconducting tin bolometers. The practical performance achieved is considerably inferior to that which is ideally possible. The extension of microwave techniques is limited by practical difficulties in constructing the detectors and other components required, but the performance obtained from the infra-red systems which require cooling with liquid helium is limited by that of the LF amplifiers used with them."
"The behavior of passive repeaters in microwave radio links has been focused by means of a series of experimental tests. Some of the measurements were concerned with the determination of quantities which characterize the behavior of the repeater alone and in connection with the whole radio link. Some other measurements were planned to investigate closely the behavior of the mirror and the anomalies which have been found. Emphasis has been given to the influence of propagation and the effects of the ground surrounding the mirror. Much of the aim has been to separate these effects. Finally some conclusions are drawn and criteria for the installation of such repeaters are pointed out."
"A microwave aperture antenna with small phase errors has been constructed by utilizing the plane field configuration inside a box-shaped resonator to directly excite the aperture, which is the same shape as the resonator. The antenna is narrow band, as Q of the resonator should be sufficient for selecting the proper mode in the resonator. The possible bandwidth of the antenna is thus inverse proportional to the desired gain. Reasonable agreement between theory and measurements was obtained."
"The waveguide of the general cross section is transformed into a waveguide of rectangular cross section by conformal transformation. The electric and magnetic field, the critical frequency, wall current, power transport and attenuation of the different TE-and TM-modes are calculated by a series approximation. Examples of numerical evaluation are given for five different cross sections."
"A broad-band Smith-diagram display unit has been developed by using a new waveguide circuit called a phase-directional coupler. Among the interesting features of this new display unit are its broad-band capabilities, high precision and simple construction. A \"vibrating-dummy method\" has been developed as a perfect termination in contrast with the well-known \"sliding-load method.\" The Smith-diagram display unit of small reflection coefficients was achieved by combining this new method with the above display unit. Included in this paper are the experimental results obtained at 6 Gc and 11 Gc."
"This scattering problem is essentially two-dimensional due to the circular symmetry of the incident TM mode, and is solved exactly by the Wiener-Hopf technique. As stated, the incident wave is the symmetrical TM axial surface wave, traveling in the positive x direction and guided by a reactive surface at r = a. The normal surface reactance is X1for x < 0 and X2for x > 0, where X1and X2are positive and real. The discontinuity produces transmitted, reflected, and radiated fields whose amplitudes are given in terms of integrals which are evaluated in specific cases by quadrature formulas. It is shown that the derived field components reduce to those of Kay [1] or Barlow and Brown multiplied by a constant coefficient, for the case of a plane surface, if the radius a is allowed to become very large. Coefficients of transmitted, reflected and radiated power, relative to the incident power are calculated in certain cases, with conservation of energy being verified."
"Major research was begun in March, 1962, with the 210-foot steerable radio telescope at the Australian National Radio Observatory. Current and planned investigations are numerous and diverse, and include observations at wavelengths of 11, 21, 30, 75 and 220 cm. This paper sketches the telescope and equipment details and describes the research program, including results to date."
"It is suggested that the ionization in the F2 region of the ionosphere is composed of contributions due to electromagnetic ultraviolet and corpuscular radiations from the sun. These two components of solar energy can be represented by sunspot and geomagnetic activity. When contributions from both these components are taken into account, the monthly mean value of the averaged diurnal characteristics of f0F2 is seen to follow fairly closely the combined effect of sunspot and geomagnetic activity, and the so-called \"saturation effects\" in the F2 region well nigh disappear. The monthly mean value of the diurnal average of f0F2 (Σf0F2) is seen to vary according to the expression √R+100×Ci throughout the solar cycle. In this expression R and Ci represent the monthly relative sunspot number and the international character figure for geomagnetic activity respectively."
"Early studies of the ionosphere assumed that isoionic surfaces were substantially horizontal and smooth, and diurnal, seasonal and sunspot variations were worked out on that basis. In recent years, the attention of research workers has turned more and more to the study of irregularities and movements in ionization. Irregularities examined range in size from the order of hundreds of kilometers to tens of meters and apparent speeds of movement also show a wide variation. Examination reveals that many apparent discrepancies in results reported by different workers can be explained as the result of selectivity in acquisition of data due either to the widely varying methods of observation used, or to temporal or spatial variations in conditions observed. Recent observations with a high speed ionosonde, and recordings of signals from earth satellites are throwing new light on these phenomena, which at first may seem to increase the complexity, but on closer examination are tending to clarify results and point out methods of attack on the unresolved problems."
"A modal solution for the em propagation in a spherical stratified troposphere is derived, via the Marcuvitz-Schwinger formalism. The approximations due to the small curvature of the earth are illustrated. The representation of the sources via the complete set of modal solutions is presented, as well as the excitation factors, computed for the vertical electric or magnetic dipole. The possible use of digital and analog computers is highlighted. Future plans for the work are the computations of a great deal of digital and analog solutions, and also the study of the influence of the random variability of the tropospheric refraction index. In the Appendix, a preliminary case [f(z)=az] is presented."
"The phase and amplitude of standard frequency transmissions from G.B.R. (16 kc) and N.B.A. (18 kc) are recorded continuously by comparison with a local standard. Equipment developed for this purpose is described briefly and includes a novel digital gear box used to correct the local standard. Diurnal phase variations throughout the year are shown for both stations. Over a 24-hour interval frequency comparisons to better than 1 in 1010are possible although frequency differences between G.B.R. and N.B.A. are not consistent with published comparisons to this order. Some variations due to ionospheric disturbances are noted including the high altitude bomb test on July 9, 1962. Multimode transmission gives rise to interference effects and in the case of N.B.A. the 1-second modulation has been used to differentiate between the long and short path transmissions. Interference between these two transmission paths can lead to an apparent gain or loss of a cycle per day and would present difficulties to an automatic clock synchronizing system based on these transmissions."
"A study of the flashing characteristics of thunderstorms can provide useful information of scientific interest and application value if all types of flashes could be recorded with equal satisfaction. One way of realizing this requirement is by utilizing the now known experimental result that all types of flashes are equally effective in radiating HF noise. This paper describes a technique based on this criterion for investigating the flashing characteristics of thunderstorms and deducing therefrom values of flash densities and thunderstorm parameters such as storm life, number of cells developed during the lifetime of a storm, cell life, rates of flashing, etc. The results of such studies of spring thunderstorms over Bangalore are discussed."
"Lightning discharges are known to occur within the cloud, from cloud to air, from the cloud to ground and between clouds. In the studies of atmospheric radio noise and characteristics of thunderstorms, an instrument is required for recording all the types of lightning flashes mentioned. The paper describes such an instrument and its tropicalized enclosure. The instrument is an extension of the Aiya noise meter and employs identical calibration and test procedures, but is completely transistorized to make it portable. It is triggered by the HF radiation field arising from lightning flashes. To reduce production costs as well as to facilitate fabrication of the instrument anywhere, the design has been based on the use of ordinarily available and commercially mass produced components and devices. The instrument operates from a 15v-battery supply, drawing 10 ma normally and about 35-40 ma when registering a flash. The exact operating frequency, bandwidth and sensitivity are capable of adjustment to desired values over a wide range. Two flashes occurring at an interval exceeding 1.5 sec can be resolved by the instrument, and this is adequate on the basis of available information."
"It is a fact that the eyes are used far less often than the ears in telecommunication systems. The obvious reason for this is that an adequate signal can usually be obtained in aural communication channels with relatively little data, but in contrast the eyes are considered to require a very great deal of data in order to receive an adequate signal. There may be very many industrial applications of a visual communication system if only the data could be greatly reduced for such channels, so that adequate pictures of various kinds might be transmitted and received in relatively narrow bandwidths. Again, the criteria by which we judge these two kinds of channel are very different; we regularly make use of aural channels which are highly distorted and noisy, whereas we frequently judge vision channels, facsimile, etc., at very high levels of quality, presumably because we are conditioned by the needs of domestic television. This paper, together with an accompanying paper by Kubba, describes experiments upon the possibilities of automatic data reduction or bandwidth compression of visual channels, for both black and white diagrams and for half-tone pictures, using electronic equipment and accepting realistic noise levels."
"This paper is intended to be a companion to the paper in this issue by Cherry, et al., entitled \"An Experimental Study of the Possible Bandwidth Compression of Visual Image Signals.\" It concerns particularly that part of the visual signal compression process carried out by the \"picture detail detector.\" The purpose of this detector is to make a continuous running examination of a scanned video signal, in real time and to make successive decisions concerning the location of essential sample points. These points are the boundaries between successive step functions which adequately represent a reduced form of the picture suitable for encoding in a compression scheme. \"Suitable here means an adequate representation of the picture as judged by eye. The device is based upon a statistical inference process which effectively leads to discrimination between the video signal and the background random noise based upon the fact that the statistical properties of successive picture points are different for the picture itself and for the noise."
"Signal-to-noise performances of a unity bit coding method and the characteristics of an experimental video encoder based upon the principle are described. The system contains a signal integration process in addition to the original delta modulator and features capability of transmitting dc component of input signal. The characteristics of the quantizing noise to the signal frequency, the signal amplitude and the integrator time constant are obtained theoretically as well as experimentally. The characteristics of periodical noise which are inherent to the proposed system are also investigated. The design and the characteristics of an experimental encoder for digital transmission of video signals are described as examples of the experimental equipment constructed to demonstrate the realizability of the principle. The experimental results show that considerably good reproduction of video pictures is obtained with sampling frequency as low as 30 Mc and suggest that the proposed system well fulfills the purpose."
"The cylindrical coding tube discussed in this paper has been designed for converting a sampled analog signal into a digital signal of reflected binary (Gray) code. The physical principle of the tube is one of electron-optical image formation in a coaxially symmetrical electric field, similar to 45°-focusing in a homogeneous field. This principle leads to a minimum of image errors. The voltages applied to the tube remain below 250 volts, the control voltage being smaller than 65 volts. The current pulses are decoupled on eight discrete collectors. The signal sampling frequency may go up to 10 Mc and higher. The tube is relatively sturdy in its physical construction, the cathode being designed for a long life expectancy. The tube assembly is 65 mm in diameter, 250 mm long, and has a weight of less than 300 gms."
"An idea for a time-coding analog-to-digital converter using an exponential voltage sweep is presented. The technique inherently offers the possibility of convenient automatic recalibration in order to compensate for long-term drift. Thus, the converter is particularly well suited for on-line use in automatic digital data reduction systems. Attention is paid to the calibration and use of the converter. A design procedure is suggested and the obtainable accuracy evaluated in terms of the design parameters. Some comments are made concerning the merits of the scheme as compared with the most common existing systems."
"Piecewise-linear and nonlinear interpolators (PLI and NLI) for the generation of a function of one variable produce an output signal from two or more input signals which represent tangents to the function. They have the additional property that an additive signal which is simultaneously applied to all input terminals is transferred through them. This property is made use of in order to facilitate the generation of functions of two variables that can be written in the form F(x, y) = f(u)+g(v), where u and v are linear functions of x and y. The method is particularly suitable when f and g are convex or concave functions; the major applications are interpolating multipliers for which this paper provides a simple theory of operation."
"The principle of operation of existing capacitor read-only memories is explained and their shortcomings pointed out. An improved type is described and a mathematical analysis made of the factors that limit its performance. These factors are: a) unwanted coupling between sense lines (\"sneak paths\"), and b) sense-line distortion caused by losses. For the purpose of the analysis, the memory is reduced to a system consisting of two conductors over a ground plane, the conductors being coupled along their length by a distributed admittance. The transmission characteristics of this system are derived in the Appendix."
"A synopsis is given of the connection between symmetry relations for electrical networks and Onsager's reciprocal relations for irreversible processes. It is pointed out that the frequency spectrum of voltage fluctuations in an RC circuit follows immediately from the equationlimT→∞1/2T ∫-TTV(t)V(t + τ)dt = V2exp (-|τ|/RC). This expression for the correlation function is therefore well supported by experiment. Only a slight generalization of this principle is involved in the application of Onsager's method to a four-terminal network. The result is an equation of the type A12(H) = A21(-H), some implications of which are discussed."
"The reciprocity principle that is used frequently in the theory of magnetic recording is generalized so as to be valid under rather general conditions, the most fundamental one of which requires the linearity of the materials with respect to their electric and magnetic properties. The general reciprocity principle is derived from Maxwell's equations and presented in two forms containing the open-circuit voltage and the short-circuit current, respectively, of the magnetic reproducing head. The familiar forms of the principle, which are currently used in the cases of impulse response and harmonic response of the reproducing head, are obtained as specializations of the general principle."
"An analysis of the behavior of a rectangular loop core when switching from one to the other of the two remanent states is presented. The paper is divided into two parts. In the first part the properties of the first pulse and of the main pulse relative to a step driving current are described. From these properties the terminal characteristics of a core under arbitrary drive and load conditions can be deduced. In the second part some simple graphical procedures to calculate the output voltage in an arbitrary drive and load condition are suggested. The experimental curves relative to resistive, inductive or capacitive loads are in a very good agreement with the calculated curves. Furthermore, some important terminal characteristics (as peak amplitude, peak time, switching time) are plotted vs load parameters (R, L, C)."
"The realization of passive non-reciprocal Hall-effect transmission devices for frequencies up to 10 Mc is described. To increase the efficiency of the classic Hall generator, the author uses a Hall-element network with several control and load circuits. This design is discussed theoretically and the technological methods for making such plates are explained. Hall gyrators were constructed with an efficiency of η = 0.56. Hall isolators gave an efficiency up to η = 0.83 with a reverse loss between 50 and 85 db, and the Hall circulator attained an efficiency of η = 0.605 with a reverse loss of about 40 db. The bandwidth of transmission, within a drop of not more than 1 db, is about two powers of ten in the frequency range between 10 kc and 10 Mc."
"The paper deals with the signal and noise performance of a parametric straight-through amplifier which comprises the cascade connection of a parametric diode up and down converter. By feeding the reactance diodes with pump voltages which are mutually shifted in phase by ±90° and by the additional insertion of a feedback admittance between input and output, complete decoupling is obtained in the backward direction. To obtain power matching on both sides, an idle circuit is arranged between the two converter stages which transmits voltages in both lower and upper sidebands. The practical design of an amplifier is described for a signal frequency of 200 Mc and a pump frequency of 940 Mc. The design of the idle circuit, the pump input and the adjustment of amount and phase angle of the pump voltages, as well as the neutralization, are explained in detail. Measuring results are given which were obtained with this test assembly that was designed in accordance with the rules given. At the mean signal frequency, power matching was achieved at the input and output and the forward transducer gain amounted to 8 db at a 3-db bandwidth of 6 Mc. The backward transducer gain amounted to -40 db, the excess noise figure Fxof only the preamplifier was 0.8, and the excess noise temperature Tz=240°K. The measurements confirmed the theory."
"In the first part of the paper, some properties of the coefficients of the Fourier-series function f[v(t)] are presented, where f(v) is an arbitrary continuous function and v(t) is an almost-periodic function. In the second part of the paper, the power-frequency relations for nonlinear two-poles are obtained on the basis of these properties. These power-equilibrium equations are the generalizations of Groszkowski's and Manley-Rowe's equations. The presented, generalized form of these equations comprise as well the elements having loop-like characteristics, nonlinear inductance, capacitance with losses, and others."
"A theoretical analysis is given of the effects of random noise in various types of electronic clocks. Leaving aside the amplitude noise problems, the study concentrates on \"linewidth\" problems and analyzes the difference between quartz clocks and quantum devices. It covers the following main points: choice of the best scheme for tube clocks; nonlinear theory of thermal noise; non-linear theory of flicker noise; immunity of Robinson's oscillator to flicker noise. The analysis gives some hope that tube quartz clocks may be built with as high a linewidth quality as atomic clocks."
"Two selected topics of current electronic research at the Institute are reported in brief. The first concerns noise in FM demodulators at noise amplitudes comparable to signal amplitudes at the demodulator input. Owing to the nonlinearity of limiters and demodulators the rigorous mathematical treatment of the demodulation process becomes rather involved. A number of basic cases have been rigorously worked out by various authors. More complex cases (for example, frequency-compression systems) however can hardly be expected to be solved strictly. For this reason approximation methods have been developed in order to arrive at expressions permitting simple numerical evaluation of the more difficult cases not treated thus far. The application of the methods employed for a number of cases shows good agreement with the experimental results as well as with the theoretical results of previous authors. The second topic concerns the generation of large HF electro-magnetic fields inside a plasma by applied external fields below the plasma frequency. The application of a static cross magnetic field modifies the ordinary skin effect in the plasma. Earlier experimental work shows that high carrier densities in the plasma occur under certain optimum conditions. A satisfactory theoretical explanation of the effects measured does not exist so far. The results of a new theoretical approach to the problem are given and discussed. They agree rather well with the experimental facts, some of which are also shown as measured by the author."
"A method of modifying a phase-shift RC oscillator for the purpose of FM is described. Two diodes are used to replace resistors and act as current controlled elements. Good linearity and stability is achieved."
"Application of microwave techniques to the study of semiconductors is steadily gaining importance for various reasons. This paper describes some microwave methods for the measurement of semiconductor parameters developed at the Institute of Radio Physics and Electronics, University of Calcutta, India. The theory of conduction in semiconductors at microwave frequencies is first reviewed briefly. A SWR method is then outlined and its application to the study of temperature variation of conductivity and dielectric constant is discussed. An experimental arrangement for the measurement of surface conductance utilizing the above method is also described. A technique for the measurement of infrared absorption coefficient of a semiconductor is then presented and the experimental results obtained with a p-type silicon sample are given. The paper concludes with a description of two different methods developed for measuring the minority carrier lifetime. The possibility of utilizing one of these methods for obtaining the diffusion length, diffusion constant and surface recombination velocity in addition to lifetime, is also indicated."
"A method for measuring the doping profile and its gradient in thin layers of semiconductor crystals is described. A sine-wave signal applied to an appropriate p-n junction on the surface of a crystal gives rise to second and third harmonics in the output signal due to the nonlinear capacitance-voltage characteristic of the junction. Expressions are derived which relate the second and third harmonic distortion factors to the impurity concentration and its gradient as a function of the distance into the crystal. Measurements of the impurity profile in the base layer of some silicon and germanium transistors have been made."
"An analysis is given of a technique for following the transient decay of large densities of excess carriers in lightly doped (L) semiconductors (injected density ≥ equilibrium majority-carrier density). The density as a function of time is shown to be determined unambiguously from the voltage developed in a p+-L-n+structure by carriers injected electrically into the L-region during a preceding pulse of forward current. Experimental observations are presented on decay rates in germanium and silicon over several orders of magnitude of the carrier density."
"The history and development of interest in space-charge-limited (scl) current in solids is traced from early work on the electron atmosphere in insulators to present understanding of the physical mechanisms of current and awareness of device potentialities. SCL solid-state devices have achieved practical realization through the use of single crystals and evaporated layers of cadmium sulphide, but high-resistivity single crystal silicon is likely to be a preferred material for practical and reliable devices. The square-law dielectric diode is the fundamental scl solid-state device, and theoretical studies and experimental investigations of this device are described. The design and operation of the dielectric triode with negative and positive gate bias are discussed, the input resistance of this device is high; it is insensitive to changes of temperature, and its operating characteristics and parameters are described well by the concepts of perveance and amplification factor. It is now apparent that there is considerable scope in future electronics for scl solid-state devices as individual elements and in thin-film integrated circuits."
"Reversed field focusing of electron beams has advantages over the more commonly used periodic permanent magnet focusing in some applications, such as low-noise traveling-wave tubes, but still permits the use of permanent magnets of reasonably small size and weight. For several reversals, or operation over a considerable voltage range, correction of the defocusing action of the field reversals is necessary near these reversals by providing additional dips or peaks in the magnetic field. Linear approximations to the usual theory permit the effect of such corrections to be evaluated, giving a qualitative understanding of the process, and a design procedure. More exact computer calculations show that the approximations are justified by the accuracy of this procedure. Preliminary results on a low-noise X-band traveling-wave tube using compensated reversed field focusing further confirm the theory."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A step-by-step narration is given of the conception in the 1890's of multiplex telephony by John Stone Stone. Much of this fascinating story is told in Stone's own words as taken from testimony at patent interference hearings. Beginning with his early and tentative ideas on the use of electrical resonance, the story takes us to the point where he had conceived a complete multiplex system. Although he eventually received an unfavorable court decision on his patent application, Stone nevertheless made a brilliant contribution to modern communication technology."
"The object of this tutorial paper is to clarify the basic ideas referring to the electron velocity spread associated with thermionic emission. In particular we discuss the use of suitable probability density functions, the definition of mean velooity and mean energy and the concept of momentum and energy flow. In all cases the physical significance of the relevant quatities is considered, their relation to thermionic power conversion being noted, where applicable. The discussion deals with conservative, time-independent systems, a plane, parallel diode being used as a simple model."
"The topics of power and energy output from lasers are treated. Both three- and four-level lasers are considered in the pulsed and continuous modes of operation. The theoretical power and energy estimates are compared, when possible, with experimental data."
"Crossed-film cryotron circuits could be considerably improved if a structure were available in which one control could aid or oppose the effect of another. It is shown that this can be achieved by superimposing two controls in perfect registry. However, this is a difficult task. An alternative structure which does not have this disadvantage has been found. This structure employs superimposed controls of different widths, the widest one being closest to the gate film and projecting beyond the others. It has been proved theoretically and confirmed experimentally that current in any one control of this structure can effectively cancel the effect of the same current in any other. Several applications of the device are described. They include a negative impedance circuit, a current polarity sensor, and various logic elements. The relationship of the multiple-control cryotron to the single-control cryotron is assessed."
"Statistical parameters of the phase-error behavior of a phase-locked loop tracking a constant frequency signal in the presence of additive, stationary, Gaussian noise are obtained by treating the problem as a continuous random walk with a sinusoidal restoring force. The Fokker-Planck or diffusion equation is obtained for a general loop and for the case of frequency-modulated received signals. An exact expression for the steady-state phase-error distribution is available only for the first-order loop, but approximate and asymptotic expressions are derived for the second-order loop. Results are obtained also for the expected time to loss of lock and for the frequency of skipping cycles. Some of the results are extended to tracking loops with nonsinusoidal error functions. Validity thresholds of widely accepted approximate models of the phase-locked loop are obtained by comparison with the exact results available for the first-order loop."
"This synopsis of the investigation over the frequency interval of 58 to 62 kMc of emission and absorption of the earth's atmosphere between sea level and 100 thousand feet describes the measurements of the earth's atmosphere and simulated atmospheres and the results of the data analysis. The attenuation and emission of the atmosphere was found to be described within the limits of atmospheric variability by previously derived empirical equations. Between sea level and 100 thousand feet the attenuation between 58 and 62 kMc at the line center frequencies and between the line center frequencies has average values of 200 db and 145 db, respectively. The emission temperature into space from 100 thousand foot altitudes is 220°K between the lines and 225°K at line center frequencies. The emission temperature is a function of bandwidth and within the variability limits of the atmosphere, independent of incident solar radiation."
"An analysis is presented of the behavior of magnetic-core circuits employing rectangular-hysteresis-loop ferrite toroidal cores, and switched by a constant-current source. The analysis embraces simple magnetic-core circuits with various loads, multi-path-core circuits, cascaded-core circuits and air-gap-core circuits. The method of analysis presented is based upon an extension of A. Papoulis' unpublished work. It is known that the response or terminal properties of various magnetic-core circuits can be described analytically in a set of nonlinear equations. A form of graphical analysis is used to solve the nonlinear differential equations, and phase-plane trajectory is used to solve the nonlinear integral equations. Experiments have been conducted to verify the theoretical methods; theoretical calculations proved to be a close approximation to measured values."
"Reading in the August issue that the recommendations of the IEEE Publication Committee are to publish three kinds of IEEE magazines, a monthly of essentially the Electrical engineering type, various professional technical group Transactions and, in addition, a Proceedings of the IEEE, makes the author wonder how the Institute membership may approve of such a plan. He feels it is well to have a high quality monthly, mailed to every member of the Institute, which is on such a level that it can be understood by, and is of interest to, the great majority of the membership. However, there is no need to continue with a Proceedings type of magazine. He argues that accordingly, it would be to the advantage of the member interests, aws ell as of the Institute budget, to modify this early Committee recummendation by dropping a Proceedings-type of publication in favor of an expanded monthly of the Electrical engineering type (as suggested by the Committee) and of the many PTG Transactions which in their entirety will cover all fields of electrical engineering, and which should include all Proceedings-type technical papers. No harm will be done, but a lot of money will be saved."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Cyclotron wave amplifiers with a pump-to-signal frequency ratio of 5:1 (rather than the usual 2:1) have been built and have given a single-channel noise figure of 2 db. This paper reports on the difficulties which had to be overcome and the restrictions which had to be observed before achieving what, at the start, had looked deceptively simple. The paper begins with a discussion of the relative merits of assigning signal, idler and pump waves in various ways to beam and circuit. In the preferred arrangement the circuit carries only the pump wave; signal and idler are cyclotron waves on the beam. The validity of Tien's equations for the propagation constants and of the Manley-Rowe relations for the power-frequency ratio is demonstrated for the case of cyclotron waves. It is also shown that in a nondegenerate tube, idler noise must be extracted, no matter how high the idler frequency may be. Early experiments by C. B. Crumly, using interdigital couplers for signal and idler, gave very poor noise figures. The twisted coupler, a new structure with high coupling efficiency, was introduced but failed to reduce the high noise. It was then found that a signal carried by a cyclotron wave of low phase velocity was attenuated as it traveled along the beam, and that the noise extraction process worked poorly. This was traced to the spread of axial electron velocities, a source of trouble mentioned by C. P. Lea-Wilson and later by E. I. Gordon. P.G. Everett's measurements of this effect are described. It is then shown how the consequences of the effect may be minimized. Nondegenerate tubes are described in which the velocity spread effect is rendered almost harmless. The twisted coupler structure is particularly well adapted to experiments with synchronous waves; a brief report on such experiments is included."
"A high-speed, high-power switching device is analyzed and experimental results presented. The device consists of a back-biased p-n junction switched by an electron beam. A single position tube for use as a magnetic core driver has been tested. The device operated at a beam voltage of 19 kv and can give a 150-v, 1.5-a output pulse with a rise time of less than 4 nsec and a maximum device power dissipation of 14 w. Designs for a multiposition device and also a high-power amplifier, similar in operation to the single position device are discussed."
"During the last five years, papers on parametric devices have profusely filled the literature. In parametric devices there are many possible arrangements of ports and spectrum modes. Most authors have concentrated upon configurations which yield useful gain together with low-noise performance; however, the degree of rigor, the various assumptions, and the nomenclature used by various authors make the systematic comparison of parametric devices laborious. The intent of this paper has been to compile a comprehensive tabulation of performance expressions for four-frequency parametric devices. Within the bounds of the assumptions and with a consistent nomenclature, expressions are written for: available and transducer power gain, bandwidth, gain-bandwidth product, input and output conductance, midband effective noise temperature, and phase relations. The four-frequency devices are considered because they encompass both the negative conductance and the frequency ratio mechanisms of parametric amplification. These performance expressions are written for the nine possible configurations of ports and spectrum modes of the four-frequency devices which enables an orderly comparison. By proper termination of the idler port in these expressions, eight additional cases arise for the three- and two-frequency parametric devices. As an introduction to the tabulations, the special nomenclature, the terminology, and the assumptions are defined. Only the procedure to derive the various types of expressions is illustrated. The catalog has been intentionally prepared to compare the various operational modes of parametric devices without rigorous inclusion of the nonlinear reactance element losses or without specific emphasis on low-noise operation which obscures the distinctive features of each operational mode."
"Solutions of field effect equations in which carrier density and space-charge distributions are considered in general form show that the LF terminal characteristics are not strongly dependent on the shape of the distribution curves. General expressions for mutual transconductance, output conductance, junction capacitance and current amplification are derived as functions of the depletion layer thickness at the device boundaries. These expressions are not explicitly dependent on charge distribution. Relationships between the small-signal and dc terminal characteristics depend on the shape of the charge distribution curves but cannot be varied by more than a factor of two. The shape of the device is shown to have secondary importance."
"A unified approach to the solution of semiconductor boundary value problems is presented. The terminal voltage (including bulk drops) is derived by taking the total current as the independent variable. At semiconductor interfaces relationships between potential drops and carrier concentrations in the neutral regions are reviewed in terms of both the electrostatic and electrochemical potentials. The terminal voltage is expressed in terms of either the electrostatic or electrochemical potentials. Examples are presented to illustrate the techniques presented in this paper in terms of the familiar RP+NR and not so familiar RvNR diodes."
"An analysis of avalanche breakdown in exponentially retrograded p-n junctions results in simple criteria for avoiding breakdown in such structures. Breakdown voltages are shown to be extremely dependent on the surface concentration and grading constant of the retrograded region. The effect of background resistivity on breakdown is also analyzed. Unusual saturation effects in the multiplication voltage curves of retrograded p-n diodes are predicted theoretically. Experimental results point towards a confirmation of this theory."
"The design of junction capacitance switches consisting of a combination of abrupt junctions is considered. Theoretical characteristics are calculated for ideally abrupt junctions. The possibilities of fabrication by alloying and epitaxial growth are briefly discussed."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A direct-view storage tube has been developed which is capable of displaying stored information in either of two colors or in intermediate hues. The operating principle is based on the fact that flood electrons which pass through the holes in the storage mask when the storage-surface potential is near cutoff fall within small areas on the viewing screen opposite the storage-mask holes; whereas flood electrons which pass through the holes when the potential is near its maximum, i.e., flood-gun-cathode potential, fall on larger overlapping areas on the viewing screen. The viewing screen consists of a pattern of two phosphors: one occupies small areas in register with the storage-mask holes, and the other occupies areas surrounding the first. The tube, which has a 10-inch diameter, can be operated with simple circuitry, essentially the same as that required for conventional half-tone storage tubes. When the performance of this tube is compared with that of conventional half-tone storage tubes, it can be seen that a moderate sacrifice in resolution was made in order to replace the half-tone monochromatic range with a system of two primary colors and intermediate hues. This system permits the color coding of stored information that provides a vivid qualitative or semiquantitative representation of a variable in the display. The design and performance considerations for the tubes are discussed and future investigations for this type of tube are outlined."
"The effects of thermal velocity in two-dimensional and axially symmetric beams are evaluated, assuming a Maxwellian distribution of velocities at the cathode. The linear treatment is similar to that of Cutler and Hines, but the approach is somewhat different. Analytic expressions and curves are given for the current density in terms of the error and modified Bessel functions; the arguments of these functions are the solutions of the usual paraxial equations, neglecting thermal effects. Our predictions agree with those of Cutler and Hines for the case they considered. An approximation is given for the nonlinear effects of the electro-magnetic fields; these nonlinear effects may be due to aberrations in the system, or to changes in the space-charge fields due to the linear effects of thermal velocities. As an example, the problem of a beam with a finite transverse temperature in a field-free drift space is considered. Analytic expressions are given for the current density in such a beam."
"In this paper we develop a technique for characterizing parametric interaction in electron beam waves in terms of a system transfer function. We consider systems in which the parametric interaction is described by a matrix equation of the form (∂/∂t + uo∂/∂z)a = -iH a where a is a state vector of the system and H is the matrix characterizing the interaction. Solutions in the time domain can be expressed in the form a(z, t) = M(z, t) a(O, t - z/uo) where M (a matrix) is called the system function in the time domain. Solutions in the frequency domain can be expressed in the form â(z, ω) = ∫ M(z, ω - ω')â(O, ω')dω' where â(z, ω) is the Fourier transform of a(z, t) and M(z, ω) is the transform of M(z, t). Solutions for parametric interaction in transverse beam waves are worked out for two cases: In Case I we derive the well-known result that describes the behavior of a single pump wave, electron beam parametric amplifier. In Case II we consider a parametric interaction involving two pump waves in which an infinite number of frequencies are parametrically coupled."
"The elliptic cavity coupler is described as a broad band low-loss coupler for microwave slow-wave structures. This type of coupler is particularly useful in helix-type traveling-wave tubes, but can be adapted for other slow-wave structures as well. Usable bandwidths as wide as 3 to 1 and broad-band insertion losses of less than 1 db have been observed. This type of coupler could readily be utilized with slow-wave structures in the millimeter wavelength region."
"The dispersive characteristics of the loaded-waveguide type interaction structures commonly employed in high-power traveling-wave tubes cause a large variation of efficiency with frequency. This efficiency variation can be reduced by period tapering of the output section of the tube. The physical reasons underlying the improvement in tube performance, calculated results using large-signal traveling-wave tube equations and experimental confirmation of the calculations are described."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The OFF state current-voltage characteristics of a two-terminal n-p-n-p silicon controlled rectifier are predicted by considering one-dimensional diffusion of minority carriers in the bulk regions and recombination and generation of carriers in the junction space-charge regions. It is concluded that the temperature dependence of the breakover voltage is strongly dependent on the lifetimes in the space-charge regions of the junctions. Evidence is shown that the carrier lifetime in the space-charge region of an alloyed junction may be less than 10-9seconds even though the lifetime in the bulk is of the order of 10-6seconds. The effect of gate current on the device characteristic and gated turn-off are treated in a very approximate manner."
"By treating the Silicon Controlled Rectifier as a hook transistor and measuring its current amplification factor as a function of frequency, the small-signal low-frequency alphas\\alpha_{n0}and\\alpha_{p0}of the n-p-n and p-n-p transistor sections constituting the Controlled Rectifier can be separately determined, together with fnand fp, their respective cutoff frequencies. Repeating these measurements at a number of bias currents, coupled with a numerical integration, enables one to separate the component dc currents of the two transistor sections as well as their dc alphas αnand αP. Measurements indicate that switching from high to low impedance is controlled by\\alpha_{n0} + \\alpha_{p0} = 1and not\\alpha_{n} + \\alpha_{p} = 1as has hitherto been implied. There are good theoretical reasons for this which have led to a redefinition of the breakover conditions. These are shown to be given by infinite output admittance and not infinite current as has so far been thought to be the case.\\alpha_{n0}and\\alpha_{p0}were also measured and plotted as a function of voltage bias."
"An analysis of a subharmonic oscillator using an ideal nonlinear capacitor is given in which the variables are so chosen that the problem reduces to a set of linear equations. The resulting solutions are exact, but multivalued, and the choice of the correct one is made as a result of experiments using a step-recovery diode. The method of analysis should be applicable to a wider range of piecewise-linear problems."
"Experimental surface varactors constructed from germanium and silicon, with titanium dioxide films as a dielectric, are described. Measurements have been made to determine their behavior at frequencies up to 9 kMc. The capacitance ratio and specific capacitance change are in good agreement with the theory of surface varactors. The feasibility of high-frequency operation of this device is demonstrated on epitaxial-silicon surface varactors with zero-bias cutoff frequencies above 100kMc. From the analysis of the series resistance in practical structures, cutoff frequencies in the Teracycle range appear possible."
"This paper is concerned with the estimation of physical parameters of the internal device structure of transistors in which the collector-base junction is of gradual (diffused) transition. The parameters evaluated are the dimensional quantities of base width, depletion layer width, and junction area, together with those that characterize the impurity density distribution in the base and other regions according to some representative functional expression. Previous determinations of such parameters have been restricted to devices of step (alloy) junction type, but here single- and double-diffused structures, in which the collector junction is graded, are considered. The estimation of physical parameters is carried out in terms of relatively simply measured properties of the transistor--in particular, the dependence of base transit time and junction capacitance on operating bias conditions. The theoretical basis of the determination is developed on the assumption of a simplified model of the device structure in which the major part of the base region and the collector are represented by an exponential distribution of impurity density, while a possible opposing field region near the emitter is considered to be of linear grading. In the analysis of this model, the position-dependence of the diffusion and mobility coefficients is taken into account. Experimental results show that consistent evaluation of the physical parameters of the device (viz, of its model representation) is possible for a range of structural types."
"A generalized charge storage model for characterizing the transient behavior of asymmetrical alloy junction transistor bases is presented. The model enables one to study quantitatively not only the various transient waveforms encounted in switching from one region to another under diversified circuit conditions, but also provides a means for evaluating the transient parameters of the device analytically from a knowledge of the base geometry, surface recombination velocity of the free base surface and bulk lifetime of the base semiconductor. A sample calculation is presented illustrating the use of the generalized charge storage model."
"The small-signal impedance of the forward-biased p-i-n diode has been calculated. It is found that, for a certain range of bias voltages, the impedance of the intrinsic region can be approximated by a parallel combination of resistance and inductance. If the intrinsic region is sufficiently long the junction impedance becomes negligible in comparision to the i-region impedance and a high Q inductor results at low frequencies. Values of Q up to 18 are calculated."
"The n-p-n-p switch (silicon controlled rectifier--SCR) reacts to a gate electrode signal by first going into the high conductivity state in the neighborhood of the gate. Following this initial event the ON state spreads laterally, the \"gate\" current to the regions which turn on later being supplied by those regions already ON. The current density in the gate region just prior to turn-on is of the order of 1 amp/cm2. The rate of spread or of contraction of the operative area is crudely computed. Hysteresis between increasing and decreasing current characteristics is explained."
"Resistivity measurements made with a four-point probe on a sample having at least one of its dimensions small (i. e., of the order of the spacing between the points of the probe or smaller) require a correction factor to compensate for this condition. Correction factors for various four-point probe arrangements near a conducting or a nonconducting boundary have been derived and plotted for cases where : 1) the four-point probe array is rectangular and of various proportions rather than square, 2) the current points of the square-or rectangular-array probe are perpendicular to the boundary 3) the current points of the square-or rectangular-array probe are parallel to the boundary."
"Many functional blocks have a basic double-diffused three-layer n-p-n or p-n-p structure to permit the incorporation of transistors. If diodes are also to be incorporated in the block, it is often more convenient to connect the transistor structure already present as a diode so that \"batch\" processing can be used. There are five different ways to connect a transistor as a diode, either by opening certain electrodes or by short-circuiting a pair of electrodes. The different connections are compared both analytically and experimentally on the basis of forward voltage drop, recovery time and reverse characteristics. It is found that the shorted collector -base connection has the shortest recovery time, comparable to fast computer diodes, and a lower forward voltage drop than the open collector diode connection. The performance is almost equivalent to a diode with a metallic contact in place of the collector. The shorted emitter-base connection has the lowest forward voltage drop. There is good agreement between theory and experiments. The applications of this analysis to the design and fabrication of a high-speed nonsaturated diode-emitter follower AND gate functional block will be illustrated."
"The current density available from known thermionic cathodes imposes a serious limitation on the power output obtainable from electron tubes operating at frequencies above about 10 Gc. This paper describes a proposal for a frequency multiplier which has the interesting property that the RF energy imparted to the electron beam by the signal source may be one or two orders of magnitude greater than the dc energy supplied by the battery. Thus it is expected that the power output at a particular frequency will be much higher for a given cathode current density than that obtained from conventional types of electron-beam oscillators and amplifiers. The multiplier operates by converting the input energy at one radio frequency into rotational energy of an electron beam by means of a Cuccia coupler. The beam then couples power to the output load via a multicavity circuit containing2ncavities wherenis the frequency multiplication to be obtained. The paper includes details of experimental work on a low-power tube multiplying from 600 Mc to 3600 Mc. In this tube 1.3 watts of RF input power is coupled on to a 50 volt, 260-µa beam and the power at 3600 Mc is coupled out via a 12-cavity magnetron anode structure. Photographs are given of the trace of the rotating beam impinging on a fluorescent screen and these demonstrate the degree of focussing achieved along the length of the tube. The paper concludes with a study of the feasibility of a tube multiplying from 10 Gc to 100 Gc with an output of tens of watts."
"This paper reports results on a two-year research program, most of which has already been presented orally. The objective was to exploit the extended interaction principle to obtain more CW power output, bandwith, and efficiency than a classical klystron would give. An attempt is made to arrive at criteria for comparing classical klystron catchers with extended interaction catchers and possibily with traveling-wave amplifiers. Results of tests on various experimental tubes are given and discussed. It is pointed out that the improvement in performance varies as the amount of extension of the catcher but this is limited by self-oscillation. Agreement between experimental results and a start oscillation theory developed for the structure tested is fairly good. It is concluded that the most likely application is in high average power tubes at very high frequencies, X band and higher; and that further research is needed on slow-wave circuits and on extended bunchers."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The general behavior of the traveling-wave microwave phototube (TWP) as a broadband light demodulator has been described in previous publications. This paper presents specific theoretical and experimental analyses. It is shown that at low average currents the microwave power output of a TWP is given byP = \\frac{1}{2}i^{2} R_{eq}whereiis the peak value of the microwave current modulation at the cathode (i.e., the ac current) and Reqis an \"equivalent interaction resistance\" given byR_{eq} = \\pi^{2}N^{2}Z_{c}whereNis the helix length in electronic wavelengths and Zcis the longitudinal beam-circuit interaction impedance. Typical values of Reqare from 105to 107ohms. The bandwidth is determined by the productf^{2}Z_{c}, which can vary less than 3 db over an octave. The major noise contributions are found to be shot noise and thermal noise. The power output and signal-to-noise calculations are verified by experiments on an S-band TWP at low average current levels. Preliminary analysis of the TWP at high average currents shows that even higher values of Reqshould be obtainable. However, in that case the frequency-dependent microwave interactions in the gun region may provide a serious bandwidth limitation."
"This paper is concerned with the theoretical properties of the axially symmetric electron beam arising from a space-charge limited cathode of conical shape, immersed in a uniform axial magnetic field. It is not the purpose of this paper to discuss the gun from an engineering point of view; hence, no advice is offered concerning the selection of design parameters for a particular application. The problem is treated nonrelativistically, and thermal velocities of emission are considered only in a very approximate, though fundamentally important, fashion. It is assumed that all trajectories are geometrically similar, so that one may obtain a given trajectory from any other by simple magnification. Because of this assumption, it follows that the flow is considered to be laminar, i.e., two trajectories never intersect. It is shown that a given gun design is completely specified when values have been assigned to three parameters, namely a) the half angle of the cathode θ0, b) a space-charge parameterK, which involves the magnetic field strength, the absolute radius of a reference point on the cathode, and the emission density at that point, and c) an initial velocity parameterfwhich, if properly chosen, will greatly simplify the problem of theoretically calculating correct electrode shapes. Following an introductory Section I, the space-charge flow equations are discussed in Section II; these equations are then specialized in Section III to the case of a conical cathode and a uniform axial magnetic field. Numerical solutions of these equations, for selected values of the parameters, are presented in Section IV, properties of the beam remote from the cathode are discussed in Section V, and the problem of electrode design is treated in Section VI. In Section VII, perturbation equations are derived, useful for predicting the effect of varying either the magnetic field strength or the gun anode potential separately. Finally, Section VIII is concerned with the properties of a thin hollow beam generated by a magnetron injection gun, but far from the gun, i.e., in a region where the potential may be very different from the beam potential in the gun proper."
"In general, the electrons of an electron beam in crossed electric and magnetic fields move in cycloids. The possibility of using such a beam in harmonic operation of a periodic-beam fast-wave tube has been explored. The most promising tube of tiffs type for a millimeter generator is one in which the ac motion occurs along the dc magnetic field and consequently is transverse to the dc motion. The small signal analysis of this tube is given, neglecting space charge, and it is shown that for reasonable beam currents backward wave oscillations at twice or even three times the cyclotron frequency can be obtained. The analysis is made particularly simple through the use of the small signal power theorem. Some of the practical problems associated with this tube are briefly considered."
"This paper discusses the theory and performance of depressed trochoidal collectors which are used to improve the efficiency of S-band traveling-wave amplifiers. These crossed-field multistage collectors sort the electrons in the spent beam into velocity classes, and collect each class at an appropriately low potential. The sorting and collecting actions depend on the tendency of electrons to flow to the lower-potential anode in a split-anode cylindrical magnetron. The magnetic field required in the collector region to produce sorting action is evaluated, and the design parameters of the collector structure are determined from an analysis of electron ballistics inside the collector tunnel. In the trochoidal-collector tube, spent electrons are sorted into eight energy levels and collected by eight electrodes biased at different potentials. This tube provides information on the fraction of electrons collected at a voltage equal to, or greater than, the equivalent voltage lost by the electrons in the process of RF interaction, and on the collection voltages required for spent electrons at different levels of RF drive. Complete performance curves for the assembly are included for both an unmodulated beam and an RF driven beam. When the tube produces a power output of 16 watts and a saturated gain of 35 db at 2360 Mc, the collector efficiency is 42 per cent, the over-all efficiency 38 per cent, and the electronic efficiency 16 per cent. These results are achieved without adverse effects on the RF performance as a result of beam instabilities and regenerations caused by space-charge blocking of electron flow or by motion of electrons returning to the helix region."
"Methods of calculating approximate cathode-fall voltages and distances as a function of current density using a number of alternate empirical relations are introduced. It is shown that these calculated characteristics are considerably different for rare and molecular gases, and are also quite different for the two different mobility assumptions used, but are only slightly different if the field distribution near the cathode is assumed to be linear or if it is assumed to be given by an approximation to Poisson's equation. Comparison of these approximations with more exact calculations made on an electronic computer and with experimental data indicate their usefulness for engineering purposes."
"Nonthermionic emission of electrons into a vacuum is observed in Malter effect emission, MgO cold-cathode type emission, and thin film metal sandwich emission. These cold-cathode effects possess certain similarities which appear to be the result of a common basic emission mechanism. MgO cold-cathode type emission has been the most extensively studied of these three cold-cathode effects. In MgO cold cathodes an electric field of the order of 106v/cm is developed across a relatively thin (∼7000Å) oxide layer. This electric field is indirectly developed as a result of hole migration through the MgO layer. A similar process of field enhancement probably occurs in Malter effect emission, while in thin film metal sandwich devices the required electric field is developed directly. Study of the detailed characteristics of MgO cold-cathode emission suggests strongly that electron avalanching is the basic mechanism responsible for self-sustained emission. In the self-sustained region, the IV characteristics are those of a simple avalanche process. Furthermore, the observed electron velocity distribution and the temperature dependence of emission follow from the requirement that electrons which are emitted come from a highly energetic electron \"gas,\" presumably the terminal result of an avalanching process. Similarities between this process and the mechanism producing emission from thin film metal sandwich devices with insulating layers of 250Å-16,000 Å thickness are discussed."
"Circuit reliability and performance, particularly in high-density microcircuits, are affected by temperature. Therefore, a knowledge of the heat transfer paths and temperature distribution are of prime importance in topological design for efficient circuit performance. The method of thermal profiling described uses infrared scanning. The method is direct, rapid, and nondestructive, and the temperature profile is unaffected by the measurement. The effects of heat sinks, heat sources, and unusual geometrical patterns are automatically taken into account. The \"heart\" of the infrared scanning system is a photosensitive element of single-crystal indium antimonide with a long wave cutoff near 6 microns. The system has successfully determined isothermal patterns from 55°C to >250°C in thin-film tantalum microcircuits having linewidth patterns as small as 2 mils. Isothermal patterns of various geometries are shown to illustrate how the area and shape of resistors affect the thermal pattern and the temperature of the hottest part. Life data correlating the temperatures at the hottest parts with operating stability of thin-film resistive networks is presented. Through the correlation of temperature profiles with storage life tests, the potential exists for greatly reducing the amount of costly life testing of microcircuits for every new bias condition and circuit. Although emphasis is placed on thin-film microcircuits, a thermal profile of a solid silicon microcircuit is presented to indicate usefulness of the infrared scanning technique for temperature profiling of other types of microsystems."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe the terminal properties of a class of high-low conductivity junction devices. In particular, the static forward-bias characteristics of theRnn^{+}Rstructure are found to be linear at low current densities and a critical current density level is derived, above which the forward-bias volt-ampere characteristics are nonlinear. In reverse bias some nonlinearity is present due to minority carrier exclusion and conditions are given for achieving linearity. Experimental studies show a capacitive effect present due to carrier exclusion and these data are discussed in terms of the present model."
"This paper describes a basic HF (as contrasted to VHF or microwave frequency) substitution technique for measurement of tunnel-diode junction capacitance. This technique was devised to solve the problem of series lead inductance errors resulting from the high conductance of these diodes and the resultant fractional Q's of their junction capacitances in the HF region. The paper also describes an extension of this technique which has made possible the determination of diode capacitances as low as 2 µµf in the negative resistance region for diodes having time constants<10^{-10}with an uncertainty of less than ±0.25 µµf."
"For many varactor applications, structures with a large relative capacitance variation would be desirable. Two such structures have been investigated, namely, the hyperabrupt junction and the \"pagoda\" structure in which junction area varies with bias. All junctions are assumed to bep^{+}ntype with ann^{+}substrate, and the width of thenregion is optimum, i.e., completely swept out just at breakdown voltage. The series resistance is assumed to be contributed by thenregion alone and is equal to the value at zero bias. Structures having equal breakdown voltages are intercompared with usual step junction varactors with respect to two figures of merit: 1) the dynamic quality factor\\tilde{Q}defined by Kurokawa and Uenohara for low-noise reactance amplification, and 2) the transducer gain gTderived by Hyltin and Kotzebue for varactor harmonic generation. It is found for both applications that improvement due to increased capacitance-voltage sensitivity is offset or more than offset by the concomitant increase in RC product. For example, in the case of low-noise amplification, the improved relative capacitance variation can boost\\tilde{Q}by a factor of about 3 to 5, but the accompanying increase in RC product lowers Q by a factor of about 4 to 16. However, in some cases the resistance in the junction may not be the factor which limits circuit performance. It may for instance be dominated by constant resistances such as those in the semiconductor bulk, ohmic contacts, or external circuits. In such a case the improvement in voltage sensitivity may be desirable."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"It is proposed that novel amplifiers be compared with each other and with existing amplifiers on the basis of as many figures of merit as are calculable. The bipolar transistor; field-effect transistor; Schottky-emitter, space-charge-limited-emitter, and tunnel-emitter, metal-base, hot-electron amplifiers are compared with respect to frequency cutoff and maximum frequency of oscillation. Using reasonable ground rules for the comparison, the amplifiers rank (with respect to frequency cutoff) in the order: Schottky emitter, bipolar transistor, space-charge-limited emitter, and tunnel emitter. With respect to maximum frequency, the amplifiers rank in the order: Schottky emitter; space-charge-limited emitter; tunnel emitter and bipolar transistor equivalent; and field-effect transistor."
"Measurements of the noise voltage appearing at the ac open-circuited emitter of a transistor with its collector ac grounded and with both an external base resistance and the operating point as parameters can be used to study the location of flicker-noise sources in transistors. A general flicker-noise model is assumed. It is shown by this method of measurement that for many modern transistors the flicker-noise sources are adequately represented by a single noise current generator connected in parallel with the emitter-base junction. The method permits evaluation of the magnitude of both the correlated and uncorrelated parts of a possible collector-base flicker-noise current generator as well as measurement of the emitter-base generator."
"The internal heat transfer problem for a typical power-transistor structure has been solved analytically. The relations among current distribution, heat generation and temperature distribution have been derived. Usage of the resulting equations is illustrated by application to the most elementary problem, namely, uniform heat generation under the emitter."
"Effects of output coupling on the threshold and power output of optical masers have been considered. The application of this theory to the ruby optical maser indicates high internal losses under strong excitation conditions."
"Analysis of the dynamics of an electron beam in a magnetic collimating field leads to formulas which can be processed conveniently in an analog computer to obtain individual solutions. This technique is applied to the problem of correcting the ripple which is generally imposed upon the envelope of the beam after passage through a spatial variation or reversal of the collimating field. However, a relatively general viewpoint is retained in developing methods and formulas for studying the motion of an outermost electron of a relatively uniform, round, straight electron beam. Fer this reason the results can be applied to beams from shielded or unshielded cathodes, passing through uniform, periodic, or nonperiodic reversing magnetic collimating fields. A simplified development of the mathematical theory of magnetically confined electron beams is presented, including the effects of spatial variations and reversals in the collimating magnetic fields. Formulas are developed for the equilibrium electron beam radius, and for the ripple frequency, axial wavelength, amplitude, and phase of the outermost electrons, in terms of the field parameters and the initial beam conditions. Analog computer solutions for an electron beam with various collimating magnetic fields serve to illustrate and confirm the developed formulas. From these computer solutions, suggestions are derived for guidance in shaping collimating magnetic fields so that electron beam ripple will be prevented or reduced."
"The three-dimensional display tube is a novel type of cathode-ray tube that directly displays volumetric analog information. In contrast to other presentations in which the third dimension is simulated stereoscopically or with color, this device displays the information in actual space. The three-dimensional display tube utilizes a phosphor coated disc spinning at 900 rpm within an evacuated sphere. Upon excitation by a cathode-ray beam at selected times, any point in the volume \"swept out\" by the rotating disc may be illuminated at 30 cps. The result is true volumetric analog display, which is visible without any special viewing position or glasses. Thus, minimum observer fatigue and equal display resolution in depth are possible as compared with existing stereoscopic three-dimensional displays. Different color phosphors on either side of the disc and appropriate cathode-ray beam gating provide a simple means of two color display. Also, special deflection scans that are compatible with particular display requirements can result in a display equal in brightness and quality to commercial television display. Some typical applications as well as the technical aspects of this type of display such as brightness, data storage requirements, and feed circuit bandwidths are discussed. Compatibility with normal observer vision and ease of determining target intersections within the display volume are important properties of this type of display."
"A model of a beam amplifier consisting of a chain of lightly-coupled cavities has been studied for initial time response with the aid of a computer. The beam flows through the center-holes of 20 cavities stacked together and coupled so the pass band width would be 5 per cent in an infinitely long chain. The intermediate cavities are externally loaded for stability. The electronic transit angle for each cavity is 3π/4,\\omega_{q}/\\omega = 0.1, and the beam-circuit coupling coefficient CBis small. Computations have been made of the steady-state input resistance, gain and bandwidth around the 3π/4 \"cold\" circuit phase shift frequency, as well as of the transient response for t ≥ 0. Results show 1) at the 3π/4 frequency the voltage in the output cavity overshoots the steady-state value, and reaches its first peak at a time almost exactly equal to the amplifier length divided by the group velocity; 2) at a frequency nearer to cutoff, for which the group velocity is smaller, the voltage does not overshoot, but approaches the steady-state value asymptotically, such that at a time equal to the amplifier length divided by the group velocity the voltage has about 80 per cent of its steady-state value."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An approach commonly used in instruments to test the high-frequency current gain of transistors consists of driving the base with a calibrated current source and measuring the collector current with a very low resistance meter. The major shortcomings of such instruments are their insufficient accuracy and their limited range of quiescent test conditions. However, a thorough analysis of this method demonstrates the possibility of reducing the measurement error, in the most unfavorable case, to less than 4.5 per cent as well as the possibility of extending the test conditions to 10µv, 10µa. These improvements were obtained as a result of the development of such features as a source impedance of 50K Ω at 100 Mc, a collector load of 1 Ω and a very low capacitance socket."
"A theory of the current-voltage characteristics with grounded emitter and open base is developed in a first approximation form. The results show the typical negative resistance region characteristic of theseI-Vcurves, and the theory indicates the important parameters which control this negative resistance. The containment of the emitter current with subsequent development of \"hot spots\" on the transistor becomes easily understood. Experimental evidence of the importance of localized breakdown spots in common emitter breakdown is presented."
"A calculation is made of the tail of the impurity concentration profile resulting from concentration-dependent diffusion from a constant surface concentration into a semi-infinite medium. The calculation predicts that if the concentration dependence at low impurity concentrations is negligible, the low concentration portion of the doping profile should still take the familiar form,C = C'_{s} erfc (x/2 D_{i^{\\frac{1}{2}}}t^{\\frac{1}{2}}). Diis the commonly known diffusion coefficient at low impurity concentrations, whileC'_{s}is the \"apparent\" surface concentration.C'_{s}depends on the actual surface concentration and also depends on how the diffusion coefficient varies with impurity concentration at high concentrations. It is a constant for a given diffusion system but could be orders of magnitude higher than the actual surface concentration. Empirical data have been obtained for boron and phosphorus diffusions in silicon and found to be in good agreement with this prediction."
"Nonlinear load resistors in high-speed tunnel-diode computer circuits offer several advantages over conventional linear load resistors, namely reduced power dissipation and therefore higher packing density, increased switching speed and relaxed tolerances on the power supplies. Such resistors have been constructed by combining a tunnel-diode junction with tunneling leakage paths on the surface of the same semiconductor junction using a metal plating technique. The plated metal, which on the average is less than monoatomically thin, forms conducting islands through which tunneling takes place in parallel with the tunneling across the junction. The added conductance is in itself nonlinear. The resulting characteristic exhibits a plateau where the current is substantially independent of voltage over a range of 50-100mv. The parallel resistance applied in this manner is free of the spurious reactances usually connected with resistances applied outside or on the surface of the encapsulation of the tunnel diode, and therefore allows stable operation up to very high frequencies. At the same time the application method allows the necessary very close control of the characteristics of the resulting combination. Results are presented using Ge, GaAs and Ga Sb and include information on radiation tolerance and life tests."
"This paper considers the problem of carrier concentration optimization giving attention to the temperature dependence of the material parameters. The equations to be satisfied by the optimum constant and optimum variable carrier concentrations, in order to obtain maximum \"average parameters\" figure of merit are derived. The equations are obtained in general form so that they can be applied to any semiconductor model. In particular, the equations are solved for a nondegenerate extrinsic semiconductor. A comparison is made between the maximum \"average parameters figures of merit\" which can be obtained using optimum constant and optimum variable carrier concentrations, and the results interpreted in terms of available materials. A method is presented for the calculation of the optimum constant carrier concentration in a material when the thermoelectric parameters, as function of temperature, are known for a single sample with arbitrary constant carrier concentration. The results of the analysis are applied to the case ofnandptype cast lead telluride. The optimum constant carrier concentration determined from the equations of the analysis and the one determined from the measurement of the materials parameters are compared in order to show the error to be expected by using the postulated model for the semiconductor material."
"The problem of finding an adequate model for derivation of noise-figure expressions for crossed-field forward-wave amplifiers is investigated. The modified Llewellyn-Peterson equations are used for the portion of the beam near the cathode. Four waves, two cyclotron waves and two space-charge waves, are used for the space connecting the gun and interaction region. Noise-figures are found by considering five waves in the interaction region. The results are very close to those found when only the space-charge waves are considered in the development of the equations for both drift and interaction regions. A matrix, like the space-charge-wave matrix for O-type beams, giving the transformation of beam fluctuations along a drifting, crossed-field stream including the effects of four waves is presented. Expressions for fluctuations of transverse velocity and beam center of gravity are derived to account for all the excitation quantities which are believed to be important in crossed-field amplifiers. The transformation of fluctuations of beam position, or center of gravity, along an accelerating stream is derived. Calculated values of noise figures are far in excess of experimental values. The reasons for the discrepancies are discussed."
"In computing noise transport by the Monte Carlo technique, electrons, their two velocity components and emission times, are generated in a random manner. The electron equations of motion are integrated numerically to determine subsequent position and velocity coordinates of the electrons. In the first phase of the computer program initial conditions are specified in order to fill the diode. In the second phase the electrons drift according to the self-consistent space-charge fields. Under steady-state conditions data for the number of electrons and the velocity components are recorded for several sections of the beam and for several unit time intervals. Fluctuations are then calculated from the average values to compute the various noise parameters for particular sections of the beam. The current fluctuations are smoothed due to the presence of the potential minimum, although the velocity fluctuations are increased as the beam is accelerated which accounts for large values of noise figure, commonly characteristic of crossed-field devices. The over-all growth for the slow space-charge wave is larger than that for the fast space-charge wave in traversing one complete cycloid."
"Coupled-mode theory is employed to describe the interaction between nonuniform electron beams and circuits. It is then applied to determine the start-oscillation conditions of a tapered backward-wave oscillator. It is shown that under high space-charge operating conditions where the coupling to the fast space-charge wave is negligible and for weak circuit tapers, an approximate closed form solution of the coupled-mode equations can be obtained through a Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin-Jeffreys approximation. The start-oscillation conditions are then determined approximately from such a solution."
"This paper covers a study of strip and hollow beam guns. An automatic electron trajectory tracer has been used to study the properties of the slit-anode lens common to these types of guns. A thin beam approximation was made so that a flat-bottom electrolytic tank could be used. The results of this study have been incorporated into gun design charts. Eight hollow beam guns have been built and tested experimentally. The experimental data of these guns compare favorably with the data obtained from the anode-lens study. The limitation of thermal velocities on the maximum area compression of strip and hollow beam guns is discussed. The experimental results of a focusing scheme which uses a uniform magnetic field to focus a hollow beam down concentric drift tubes are discussed."
"In the class of electrostatic storage devices, which includes image orthicons, vidicons and certain signal recorders, a reading electron beam senses the potential distribution rather than the written charge distribution on a target. The transformation of a charge pattern into a potential pattern on a dielectric surface can be considered an imaging process. In this paper the theoretical aperture response and equivalent pass band of a general electrostatic storage target are derived. Target resolution is shown to depend upon the thicknesses of the dielectric layers. Specific applications of the analysis are also presented. The paper concludes with a discussion of experimental results."
"Scan-conversion tubes utilizing fiber-optics photon transfer (FOPT) are currently being developed by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation under contract from the United States Army Electronics Research and Development Laboratory. The tubes consist of three major components: a reading electron gun, a writing electron gun and an interjacent scan-conversion target. The targets consist of a fiber-optics disc coated on one side with a phosphor and on the other with a photoconductor, the reading gun is similar to the low velocity gun of a vidicon and the writing gun is a high velocity cathode-ray tube gun. The majority of targets tested have incorporated a long storage Permachon type photoconductor and a short persistence phosphor; however, other photoconductors and phosphors can be used to perform a variety of video conversions and/or signal enhancements. Operation of these scan-conversion tubes requires only the circuitry normally associated with the driving of a cathode-ray tube and a vidicon; no RF or other type of cancelling circuitry is required to separate the written and read-out signals."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"This paper describes a PPM focused ultra-low noise S-band TWT. Noise figures as low as 4.8 db have been attained. The noise figure was less than 5.2 db across 15% of S-band. The packaged amplifier weighs 3.5 lbs, and is completely magnetically shielded. The magnetic field over the cathode is 500 gauss. The uniform gun magnet is made of Alnico VIII and has mu metal flux straighteners. A cyclotron ripple canceling phenomenon utilizing the periodic nature of the transistion region is believed to provide best focusing and allow the anodes to be used to optomize the noise parameters. When the tube is operated in a PPM stack the noise figure is lower than when it is operated in a solenoid for fields up to 600 gauss. The saturated power output of this tube is 20 milliwatts; small signal gain, 30 db. The dynamic range is 15 db better than existing S-band ultra-low noise tubes. It is built to conform to MIL-E-5400 Class II specifications."
"The spontaneous deflection of the beam in low voltage, typically low noise, traveling wave tubes has been studied and attributed to the accumulation of stray charges on the glazed helix rods. A means of measuring the tendency of the helix to show these charging effects will be described. A method of processing of the complete helix which prevents the accumulation of charges but does not seriously affect its cold loss or other microwave properties will be reviewed. Traveling wave tubes that have been made with helices processed by this technique cannot be made to show charging effects or beam deflections. Six tubes have accumulated 18,000 tube hours with no failures."
"The low-noise characteristics of the traveling-wave tube, which have previously been obtainable only with solenoid focusing, have now been achieved in shielded permanent-magnets. This paper describes a family of low-noise traveling-wave tubes from L through Ku-band. The four tube types covering the band 1 through 12 Gc are focused in straight-field Alnico permanent magnets. External magnetic flux is reduced to a negligible value by shielding. Identical units can operate side by side without mutual interference. All have 25 db minimum gain. Noise figure is typically 4 db in L-band, 4.5 db in S-band, 5.5 db in C-band, and 7 db in X-band. Power output is between -5 and +5 dbm, with the higher values at the higher frequencies. A solid-state power supply with regulated voltages for all tube elements is described. Novel use of the annular space between the permanent magnet and the shield has resulted in a complete amplifier no larger than the shielded package without the power supply. Designed for a wide range of environmental conditions, peformance is guaranteed from -54° C to +85° C, for 10 g vibrational forces, and adequate protection from high humidity, altitude, and shock. The Ku-band tube is solenoid focused. Power required for the 1300-gauss field is 500 watts. Noise figure is less than 10 db from 12 to 18 Gc, and values less than seven db have been obtained with developmental models."
"This paper describes a very low noise X-band TWT amplifier whose electron beam is focused by a single reversal permanent magnet field. Test results demonstrate that noise figures thus far only obtained on low noise TWT's focused in a uniform PM field can be achieved in a single reversal PM field. Typical maximum terminal noise figures taken between 7 and 11 Gc are less than 7.5 db. Minimum gain and saturation power in this frequency range are 27 db and 8 mw, respectively. Developmental models have yielded maximum terminal noise figures of 7.0 db across the band and terminal noise figures between 5.5 and 5.7 db at 8.5 Gc. Over the full octave from 6 to 12 Gc, terminal noise figures less than 8.5 db and gains greater than 27.5 db have been measured. The magnetic circuit, whose principal elements are two main magnets and two ring-shaped aiding magnets, is described, and the influence of the magnetic field pattern on the energy relations of the beam electrons and therefore on tube performance is discussed. The magnet circuit is shielded by a cylinder 4 inches in diameter by 11 inches long which allows a maximum fringing field of 45 oersteds on the outer surface. The low noise TWT has a metal-ceramic construction and includes a conventional low noise gun. The completely shielded amplifier weighs 8.2 pounds, which is less than half the weight of a comparable tube focused in a uniform PM field. A further weight reduction is possible."
"This paper describes the design and performance of a new type of microwave phototube. This tube combines the advantages of secondary emission gain with the high output efficiency of a helix, and its sensitivity is orders of magnitude greater than that of conventional microwave phototubes. In this tube the light to be demodulated passes through an optical window onto a semitransparent photocathode (e.g. S-1, S-20, etc.). The photoelectrons emitted by the cathode, which are bunched at the modulation frequency of the light, are multiplied by transmission secondary emission dynodes. The amplified electron beam then passes through a helix of the type used in a TWT, exciting a traveling wave that is taken out by an output coupler. In addition to discussing the details of the construction and performance of L-band tubes, consideration will be given the ultimate limits on frequency response and sensitivity set, by the use of secondary emission multiplication. The velocity distribution of photoelectrons and secondary electrons is of primary importance in determining these limits. Some of the applications of this class of tubes for optical communication, optical ranging, etc. will be reviewed."
"An experimental cyclotron wave amplifier has been built which achieves an excess noise temperature of about 100°K without the aid of a pump. In this new tube, the electron beam is launched in a divergent magnetic field. A pole piece behind the cathode produces 1400 gauss at the emissive surface; the axial field then decreases adiabatically to an asymptotic lower limit of 140 gauss in the interaction space. The noise temperature of the fast and slow cyclotron wave, for an electron beam generated in this manner, is equal to the cathode temperature times the ratio of the two magnetic fields. For the 10:1 field reduction used in this experiment, the noise temperature of the beam is only 100°K. The low noise gun is followed by a pair of Cuccia couplers tuned to 400 mc, serving as input and output devices. The two couplers are separated by a twisted d.c. quadrupole which amplifies the fast cyclotron wave signal; at the same time, beam noise from the slow cyclotron wave is converted into the fast mode. Data on this 400 mc tube will be presented. At the present time a terminal noise figure of 2 db has been measured with 15 db of signal gain. Work is continuing and more experimental data will be reported at the meeting. This experimental amplifier opens the way to the design of slow wave amplifiers, e.g. transverse field TWT's, or of devices which use D.C. pumping to actively couple fast and slow waves, enabling them to achieve without an r.f. pump the low-noise performance normally expected of parametric devices."
"This paper will present the work accomplished on a 2.5 watt, ppm-focused, cw, X-band traveling-wave tube amplifier for satellite communication applications. Because of the tube's application, efficiency, reliability, life, weight, and size are of extreme importance in the design. This tube is being developed, produced, and life tested as part of the COMSAT program. The presentation will include theoretical as well as experimental results on the program. The theory will be concerned with the philosophy in designing an ultra-long life and highly efficient device. Parameters such as focusing field, cathode loading, beam perveance, space-charge, and normalized beam radius, γr0, will be discussed briefly in their inter-relationship in the design. The experimental results will present detailed characteristics of the tube such as power output, gain, efficiency, noise figure, phase and distortion. Unique constructional details, such as use of ultra-clean assembly areas for tube fabrication, to insure long life and high reliability will also be presented. Finally, the life test program that these tubes will undergo will be discussed."
"A two-year program has been undertaken to develop a klystron amplifier operating at 8 kMc and delivering one megawatt of CW power. The final tube will employ four cavities of the extended-interaction type. It is designed to operate at 10 kilovolts and a microperveance of 0.3. This paper will deal with the results of three major experiments which were performed during the first year of the program in order to establish the final design. These experiments were: 1. Evaluation of the electron gun in a specially designed beam analyzer. 2. The construction and experimental evaluation of a beam tester operating at full beam power. 3. The construction and testing of a pulsed klystron employing an extended-interaction output cavity and operating at one megawatt of peak power with a duty factor of 0.001. As a result of the first experiment a gun design was evolved which produced a beam having the desired size and uniformity. In the second experiment this gun was used to focus a beam through a drift tube with a transmission exceeding 99.9% at average beam power levels up to 2 megawatts. The general design of the beam analyzer will be given along with a discussion of the design and operation of the multimegawatt beam tester and collector. In the third experiment the same beam was employed in the pulsed klystron. Efficiencies exceeding 50 per cent were obtained with no instabilities at voltages between 125 and 150 kv. In view of the above results and the properties of the extended-interaction cavities, it would appear that the final design of the one-megawatt CW klystron could result in a successful tube."
"This paper describes the electrical design, fabrication, and test results of a traveling-wave tube which represents a significant advancement of the State of the Art in millimeter wave power generation. The critical areas in a tube of this type are the gun, R.F. circuit, and window. This paper presents the pertinent design and construction detail necessary to develop a suitable component in each area. The tube described uses a coupled cavity R.F. circuit, with a perveance .1 × 106gun producing up to 1,200 cw at a conversion efficiency of 16 per cent. Over 1 kw cw power output has been measured with this tube."
"This paper discusses the development of the L-3707 Klystron at Litton Industries in San Carlos, California. The L-3707 utilizes a hollow electron beam generated by a high perveance magnetron injection gun and delivers a peak rf power of 10 megawatts with a modulating anode voltage of less than 40 kilovolts. This enables video current rise times of less than 500 nanoseconds to be obtained using relatively low voltage hard tube circuitry, and makes the L-3707 particularly adaptable to radar applications requiring extremely small interpulse spacing for pulse coding. In particular, some of the unique characteristics of the high perveance magnetron injection gun in which the accelerator electrode is also employed as the modulating element will be discussed. The first of these is the effect of varying the modulating anode voltage, hence the beam current, on the phase at the output of the klystron. Secondly, the noise performance of magnetron injection guns will be discussed. It will be shown that with properly designed magnetron injection guns, signal to noise ratios which are comparable to signal to noise ratios of conventional solid beam designs can be achieved. The \"SKIRTRON\" broadbanding technique which is used in the L-3707 to obtain 100 megacycles of instantaneous bandwidth centered at 1300 megacycles will be discussed briefly, and data presented showing typical passband responses and signal to noise ratios under various conditions of beam current, beam voltage and focusing."
"This paper discusses design considerations and performance characteristics of a 5 MW peak, 300 kW average power L-band klystron. The tube to be discussed is a 4 cavity klystron tunable over a 10% frequency range centered at 1320 Mc. Nominal operating parameters are a beam voltage of 135 kv and a beam current of 120 amp. The rf pulse length is 40 microseconds, the rf duty factor .06. The tube utilizes a non-intercepting modulating anode which permits the application of sophisticated beam modulation techniques. The crucial design problems on this program can be classified into 3 major areas. They are: the generation, focusing and collection of an electron beam with an average power in excess of 1 MW; the transmission of 300 kW of average rf power through an output window and the beam modulation by a non-intercepting control electrode. The very large beam power required extreme care in the design of the beam forming and beam focusing. Beam powers up to 1.3 MW of average power are focused through a drift tube with 1 1/8 inches I. D. The interception without rf drive is below 1%. The design of a collector capable of dissipating this amount of power with surface collection densities low enough and water cooling surface large enough for reliable long life operation was a major problem which had to be solved. The power handling capacity of the output window was a limiting factor in achieving higher output powers. Because of the comparatively low peak power of this tube the window problem was an average power problem only. Thermal stresses caused by excessive and non-uniform heating of the window are the limiting factor. Excess heating of the window due to single surface multipactoring has been eliminated and with proper heat transfer design the heat generated by unavailable rf losses in the window material can be handled easily. The final window design has been tested up to a power level of 380 kW without failing. The third problem of switching a modulating anode with a gain of one at voltages up to 140 kv has also been successfully solved on this tube. A special design of the modulating anode area completely eliminated the so-called post pulse arcing phenomena which so far has been a limiting factor in using modulating anodes at these high voltages."
"In experiments with high perveance hollow beam klystrons a reproducible dependence of bunching efficiencies on the magnitude of the focusing field was found and reported earlier. Evaluation of small signal data, such as electronic gap loading and transadmittance, also reveal a dependence of these quantities on the focusing field. Known theories of RF-beam performance in finite magnetic fields do not explain the observed effects. No correlation between beam-interception and field dependence of RF-quantities was found. It is suggested that the observed phenomena are evidence of non-equilibrium beam conditions, in which part of the total kinetic energy of electrons is in transverse cyclotron motion. In devices using predominantly longitudinal interaction and bunching, a reduction of axial beam velocity is observable by its effect on measurable RF quantities. Data of the electronic gap loading over a wide range of applied voltage, perveance and magnetic field have been compared with ballistic calculations. An empirical relationship between the operating parameters of the beam and the energy in excess transverse motion could be established. The result is quantitatively applied to other groups of data, such as small signal trans-admittance and large signal bunching efficiencies. The agreement with calculated small and large signal performances at the reduced effective beam velocities supports this interpretation of the observed effects. Practical implications of the results of this investigation for the design of tubes using magnetron-gun-injected beams and some possible conclusions about the nature of the space charge flow will be discussed in this paper."
"When a pulsed electric field of several kV cm-1is applied to a homogeneous specimen of III-V semiconductor by means of \"ohmic\" contacts, an instability in the current is observed. Under suitable circumstances this instability takes the form of an oscillatory component superimposed upon the normal pulse current. The period of oscillation is then equal to the transit time of electrons between the contacts. Frequencies between 0.5 and 6.5 Gc/s, peak powers up to 0.5W, and efficiencies of 1-2% have previously been reported for n-type Ga-As. In this paper, the observation of the same phenomenon in other materials, including n-type InP, will be reported, and the design and performance of a solid-state microwave oscillator based on the effect will be discussed. This oscillator permits the generation of useful amounts of microwave power by a simple device which operates at room temperature without a magnetic field, which contains no p-n junctions, has no inconveniently small dimensions, and which should be cheap to manufacture."
"The static characteristic of a Schottky barrier diode approaches the ideal diode law, i=Is[exp(qv/kT)-1] about the origin, as does a conventional pn junction diode. Important differences exist, however, which favor the Schottky barrier for high-frequency or fast-transient applications. The technology associated with the Schottky barrier diode permits a great deal more freedom in the selection of barrier height (hence, the scale factor Is) than is possible in the pn junction. This diode consists of a metal-semiconductor interface, wherein different metals on the same semiconductor can be used to produce different barrier heights. The equivalent pn junction barrier height is limited to the band gaps of the few available semiconductors. Therefore, a wider control of forward conductivity, or alternatively a better impedance match to the circuit, is possible with the Schottky barrier diode. Minority carrier storage can virtually be eliminated in the Schottky barrier diode, because a negligible number of minority carriers is involved in the forward conduction process within certain excitation limits. Reverse recovery times well below 0.1 nanosecond can be readily achieved at low excitation levels. Schottky barrier diodes were made on epitaxial silicon layers having resistivity of about an ohm-cm. These were found, at forward current densities exceeding 103amperes/cm2, to depart considerably from the behavior of an ideal diode in series with a linear resistance. Two successive conduction regimes were observed. At moderate excitation, dynamic resistance is established by scatter limiting velocity of electrons in the epitaxial layer, and at high excitation by the substrate resistance. A negative resistance region may separate these regimes. Associated with this complex forward conduction, a threshold in forward excitation may be observed at about 104amperes/cm2above which minority carrier storage is greatly increased. This threshold is related to the epitaxial layer resistivity and to the barrier height. This paper discusses the observation of this storage threshold, its relation to the mechanism of forward conduction, and the general consequences of storage on the transient behavior of these diodes -- both with respect to turn-on and turn-off."
"A fabrication technique is described for the formation of metal-semiconductor contacts, with minimum contamination, on a production basis. Contacts of this type have been formed by cleavage in high vacuum in a stream of metal atoms which has very limited application or by normal evaporation which produces contaminated contacts. The basic structure consists of a layer of epitaxial silicon, on a suitable substrate, on which is deposited a film of molybdenum by the hydrogen reduction of the chloride in the same chamber. The system is adaptable to multiple slice operation. Measurements of switching speed indicate that the reverse recovery times are on the order of 1 nanosecond or less. This very short recovery time is attributed to the high injection efficiency which approaches unity. The high electron injection efficiency reduces the minority carrier concentration in the depletion region thereby reducing trr. Data is presented on both forward and reverse characteristics for diodes fabricated on both epitaxial and bulk silicon with different impurity concentrations. Reverse currents on the order of 10 nanoamps at 10 volts have been observed on epitaxial silicon and forward current densities of 30,000-40,000 amperes per square centimeter, at 1 volt, have also been observed. Data is also presented to show the effect of impurity concentration on barrier height."
"A diode based on the properties of an evaporated gold contact on n-type epitaxial silicon has speed comparable to point contact diodes. The space charge region at zero bias can be designed to penetrate up to the impurity tail at the interface, thus reducing series resistance. An encapsulated diode was made with a 1 mil diameter gold contact on an epitaxial layer 1.5 microns thick having a surface doping of 1×1015donors per cm3. The RC product of this diode is less than 1×10-12seconds. Under forward bias the electron transit time through the epitaxial layer is less than 2×10-11seconds. The breakdown voltage of experimental diodes is greater than 10 volts. Stress aging experiments in an inert atmosphere show no deterioration of electrical properties at temperatures up to the gold-silicon eutectic (370°C). This diode was used as a harmonic generator at 11 Gc with an efficiency comparable to that of a gallium arsenide point contact diode."
"Semiconductor diodes have been used for many years as RF switching elements. The RF impedance (for limited signal strength) may be switched from one value (usually small) in a forward-biased or conducting state to another (usually larger) in a reverse-biased, non-conducting state. In RF switching networks, the diodes are incorporated into coaxial or waveguide transmission paths in such a manner that a change in diode impedance causes a change in RF signal transmission. The impedance changes are brought about by changes in the dc bias which is applied through leads which are isolated from the signal by RF chokes and by-pass capacitors. Recent developments in PIN type diodes have permitted large increases in the power capacity of these switches and significant reduction in signal losses. These diodes have low capacitance and very high impedance when reverse-biased and can also withstand large RF voltages. In forward-bias, ac resistance is sufficiently low that many amperes of RF current can be permitted. Because of these desirable characteristics, PIN diodes are greatly superior to varactor or other microwave diodes as switching elements. The paper describes the limitations with regard to power and attenuation for several classes of RF switches including single pole, multiple pole, duplexer switches, and phase shifters. Basic figures of merit are presented which express these limitations concisely."
"It is possible, and in some cases advantageous, to obtain high efficiency from a varactor showing a minimal capacity versus voltage variation. By utilizing charge storage effects a varactor with only between a 1/5 to 1/6th power capacity law yielded over 70% efficiency in a tripler with 150 mc output. In addition, this varactor can handle power inputs well in excess of 50 watts. These results are accomplished by a specially designed impurity distribution which enables the attainment of high voltage breakdown with a minimum of extraneous body resistance in the semiconductor. At the same time the impurity distribution constrains the injected charge to the vicinity of the junction enhancing the stored charge contribution to the generation of harmonic currents. One of the most attractive features of a multiplier utilizing this varactor is the relative linearity of power output versus power input. This permits multiplication of amplitude modulated signals with low resultant distortion. It is believed that the emphasis of charge storage effects instead of capacity-voltage variation explains the linear power characteristic."
"Silicon-silicon oxide-metal capacitors have been developed and studied in view of their applications to reactance amplifiers. Desirable characteristics are: 1. Large dc/dv. 2. Symmetrical C-V characteristic at zero bias. 3. Low spreading Rs. 4. Low leakage current. Devices with symmetric characteristics at Zero bias, 1 dc/C dv better than one per volt, good linearity over 50 percent of the capacitance range, and overall capacitance ratios several hundred to one will be described. Important parameters are (1) the quality of the oxide which affects both symmetry and leakage current; (2) the choice of the counter electrode metal, which is responsible for a shift in quiescent bias (alloys can be used for intermediate voltages); (3) the base material itself and oxide thickness which determines minimum and maximum capacitance. Most difficult control to achieve is that of the surface states at the silicon-oxide interface. They are affected by the base material, the condition of oxide growth and the center electrode material. Special techniques, and in particular, oxid doping, have been used and long range stability has been achieved with some treatments. Results of tests in actual circuit, variation of characteristics with frequency, effect of temperature and light, as well as observations on aging will be presented."
"NPN silicon transistors exhibit changes in common emitter current gain when subjected to various aging and environmental treatments, among which are exposure to radiation, effects of processes and gas environment, and voltage and temperature stressing. These changes were studied using a device specified over a large current range. Most of these effects are due to surface states, and can be reversed. The effects of metallic contamination on the surface were studied by preparing special samples of transistors with and without aluminum metallizing and comparing their performance after aging in different ambients under various cycles of exposure and treatment. After the current gain has degraded by particular stress treatments, it can be restored to its original value by heat treatment in specific atmospheres. The time required varies from 1 hour to 2 or 3 days. Furthermore, heat treatment in non-oxidizing ambients can again decrease the current gain. Additional experimental studies demonstrate the effects on current gain of biasing the emitter junction. A model fitting the experimental data is presented. This model discusses the exchange of charge between the oxide surface and the interface between the silicon and the oxide. The role of oxygen ions and metallic ions as the species involved in the charge exchange is postulated and discussed."
"Charge control theory has been applied to the determination of relationships between surface charge, carrier density and space-charge widening phenomena at PN junctions. This has brought to light a very useful relationship. It appears that a variety of thin-layer semi-conductor and even tunneling devices are limited by the onset of avalanche breakdown at the edge of the layer when the total fixed charge within the space-charge depletion region is of the order of 1012carriers/cm2. The detailed results are applied to a number of materials and devices. Limits for the design of field effect and avalanche devices of minimum extrinsic layer thickness, including varactor diodes and intrinsic barrier transistors, have been derived. One conclusion is that any silicon NPN transistor which does not punch through before avalanching occurs should have an intrinsic base sheet resistance less than 6000 ohms per square. Conversely, a field effect depletion type transistor must have a P channel exceeding this resistance to avoid avalanche limitations. Metal-base transistors also should have more than 1012effective carriers per square centimeter provided by the base layer in order to operate over an adequate voltage range. Other applications will be presented, relating to limits of doping or trap densities of the layers in a variety of thick or thin-film solid state devices."
"Transient reverse voltage ratings for very high voltage silicon devices are usually established with the aim of maintaining the applied voltage below the avalanche breakdown voltage of the device. This approach is used because many p-n junction devices have surface limited reverse voltage characteristics. Unfortunately, the transient energy which can be dissipated during surface breakdown is both unpredictable and significantly lower than that which can be absorbed within the body of the device. By suitable design high voltage p-n junction device can be constructed with the electric field at the junction surface reduced sufficiently such that the avalanche region is confined to the body of the device."
"Silicon Controlled Rectifiers have proven to be excellent devices for the control of electric power. However, one shortcoming of these p-n-p-n power devices is their inability to conduct current bilaterally. Although two terminal devices have been described and fabricated which can be triggered into current conduction in either direction, they require either a very rapidly rising anode voltage or a voltage pulse which exceeds the avalanche breakdown voltage of the blocking junction to trigger. This paper describes a high current multiple junction device which can be triggered into conduction in either direction by the application of a low voltage, low current pulse between the trigger terminal and one of the load current terminals. Such a device is ideally suited for the switching and phase control of A.C. current."
"Second breakdown in transistors, commonly recognized by an abrupt reduction in VCE, has associated with it a marked constriction in the current distribution. This constriction has been observed, by monitoring the current modulated base resistance in tetrode transistors and by observations of the current distribution (through the associated temperature distribution) with the aid of temperature sensitive phosphors. The results of using such phosphors in studying the behavior of current distributions in alloyed germanium transistors and diodes in conjunction with various electrical measurements will be reported."
"High-speed computers of the next generation will require ultra-fast, extremely reliable tunnel diodes at the lowest possible cost. The glass sealed, planar GaAs tunnel diode described in this paper was designed to fulfill these specified requirements. The conventional header, which is costly and delays the electrical signal, was eliminated by hermetically sealing each device with a thin glass film having a compatible thermal expansion coefficient. The single-sided planar structure together with this glass layer provides a tunnel diode which is very reliable mechanically. Thermocompression bonding was eliminated and the interconnections are made via metallic balls placed on the chips. The peak current was not tailored by the usual electrochemical process, which reduces the junction to a narrow neck structure and causes poor mechanical reliability, but tailored by employing the so-called electrical degradation phenomenon. In the actual circuit, these diodes will be biased no further than the valley, where no significant degradation has been observed. Device fabrication processes are described. Results of the investigation of peak-current tailoring by electrical current are presented, along with available device reliability data."
"A new recording storage tube is described which incorporates advanced design and construction concepts to achieve improved mechanical precision, reduction in size and weight, and reduced susceptibility to damage from shock and vibration, while retaining the essential electrical characteristics of presently-available, high-performance, single-gun tubes. By simulating the tube's deflection and collimation systems on a digital computer, near-optimum field configurations are determined. The three-dimensional mathematical model developed in this simulation predicts shading and spot size as functions of the electric and magnetic fields. No recourse is made to field analogs such as electrolytic tanks or resistor networks. Construction techniques include (a) elimination of glass-glass and glass-metal seals subsequent to target insertion, (b) substitution of vapor-deposited internal coatings for brushed-on graphite and oxide pastes, and (c) utilization of a constant-diameter geometry to minimize the number of assembly operations and attendant sources of alignment error. Application of geometric scaling to the gun dimensions results in increased storage density to compensate for reduction in target size. Typical performance figures obtained are: resolution, 800 TV lines per diameter; shading ratio, 20/1; output current, 1.5 microamperes; output capacitance, 6 uuf."
"The performance of a camera tube, especially its sensitivity, can be improved by employing a means of multiplying the electronic charge emitted by the photocathode prior to storage and the subsequent scanning for readout. One possible method of achieving such a pre-beam gain is the efficient and lagless conversion of high energy electrons into a larger number of low energy electrons. Based on this approach a new type of storage target for use in camera tubes has recently been developed at the Westinghouse Research Laboratories. This target operates on the principle of Secondary Electron Conduction (SEC) through a low density layer of an insulator under excitation of KeV-electrons. The effect is described and the performance of the SEC target is evaluated with respect to conventional television requirements as well as the requirements of low light level imaging."
"A small cathode-ray device has been investigated as a moving target indicator. Using terms defined by IRE the device may be described as an electrical-signal storage tube having a relatively high static decay rate of predetermined value. In its present form the tube has a nominal diameter of one inch, a length of six (6) inches, and uses magnetic deflection and focus. Operation depends upon the electrical characteristics of a continuous dielectric layer, which is scanned by a narrow beam of low-energy electrons. A wide range of repetition rates can be accommodated by appropriate choice of dielectric relaxation time, and by adjustment of operating conditions. Several modes of operation are possible, adapting the device to frame-to-frame cancellation, or Area MTI, as well as to line-to-line cancellation, the function commonly performed by delay lines and their associated circuitry. Besides the obvious advantage of small space requirement, this tube promises to outperform other storage tubes and delay lines in certain other respects. Resolution is not limited by mesh structure at the storage surface as in the barrier grid storage tube. The interval of time between sweeps is not restricted to a single value as in a delay line. Cancellation ratios in excess of 40 db have been measured at TV scanning rates and at typical radar repetition rates. Theoretical and practical considerations are discussed and examples of presently-achieved performance are presented."
"Development of a unique alpha-numeric display is achieved with a device incorporating several new techniques in an unusual construction. This paper discusses the human engineering aspects, choice of materials, fabrication, processing and manner of evaluation. The abnormal glow characteristics of a cold cathode, neon gas discharge are used in presenting an alpha numeric display of high light intensity. Thirteen cathode segments are mounted \"on edge\" providing a single plane display with a wide viewing angle and a character shape which is continuous rather than sharply segmented. The continuity of stroke is achieved by utilizing the \"glow overlap\" phenomena. Sputtering of the cathode material in the abnormal glow region is a function of the gas, pressure, and cathode material. Shielding precautions required to overcome the problem of sputtering are described. Also discussed are: 1) Techniques to obtain ultra long life. 2) Effect of spacing variation on cathode glow uniformity, and 3) Evaluation of the tube in terms of its application."
"A 2-4 orders of magnitude sustained increase in the conductivity of cadmium sulfide thin films as a result of pulsed excitation with electron beams, light or electric field has been observed. This effect appears promising as the operating principle for several types of information storage and display devices. The increased conductivity which is roughly proportional to the excitation energy is substantially undiminished for many minutes, as long as the applied field is maintained. The effect is reversible in that the momentary application of a reverse electric field or removal of the field restores the film to its pre-excited low value of conductivity. Without excitation this low value of conductivity can be maintained for many minutes, and perhaps indefinitely. Previous reports on electron beam or light induced sustained conductivity changes in cadmium sulfide crystals have indicated that to restore the crystals to their pre-excited low values of conductivity it was necessary to heat-treat them. Even this treatment did not produce complete restoration of the characteristics. Data are presented which characterize the reversible sustained electron bombardment-induced conductivity (SEBIC) effect in cadmium sulfide films. Also, a theoretical model is sketched to explain the characteristics of the conductive memory effect in these thin films. The possible application of this effect to a high resolution meshless storage tube is briefly described. This device utilizes the SEBIC effect in place of the usual separate storage and control mechanisms for exciting an electroluminescent phosphor."
"From both theoretical and technical considerations, the construction of a photoconductor-electroluminescent (PC-EL) type image intensifier in a layer-on-layer or sandwich mode is the most ideal. However, due to the high capacitance and the insufficient sensitivity of the PC layer, it was difficult to achieve acceptable characteristics, and therefore solid state image intensifiers were fabricated only in more complicated structures. Recently, two developments helped to considerably improve the characteristics of the sandwich type image intensifiers. One development was that of plastic materials with dielectric constants as high as 25, which could be used for the embedment of the EL phosphor, and offered high capacitance with higher brightness. The other improvement was the increasing of the volume-sensitivity of CdSe sintered layers. Thus image intensifiers were made in the simple construction with maximum \"standard luminous gains\" of 100 ft-L per ft-c, resolution of 100 to 200 TV lines per inch, and maximum output of 30 ft-L at 200 volts and 2000 cps. The size of the panels was 6\" × 6\", but larger sizes probably could be constructed without facing new problems. These panels can be used also as infra-red to visible image converters, and x-ray image intensifiers. Details of the fabrication and characteristics will be presented and discussed."
"A pulsed backward-wave oscillator designed to produce 100 kw peak power and 1000 watts of average power at 100 Gc has been constructed. The tube utilizes a disc-loaded waveguide circuit and a perveance 0.125 × 10-6electron gun having an area convergence ratio of 900 to 1. The electron beam has a power density of 280 mega-watts/cm2and a current density of greater than 1000 amps/cm2at 200 kv. Beam transmission has been measured at 96 per cent through a .062 inch diameter beam hole at a voltage of 194 kv and a current of 10.3 amperes. Initial measurements have resulted in oscillation from 94 to 101 Gc with an input voltage of 72 to 198 kv. Peak power output of 107 kw and an average power of 324 watts have been measured."
"By using a newly developed high dissipation cooling technique combined with the well known high efficiency performance of the Amplitron, an electron tube has been developed at 3000 Mcs capable of generating large amounts of CW microwave power. CW power output exceeding 400 kilowatts has been obtained with an efficiency of 70% and gain of 9 db. Operation over a wide range of power output, from 150 to 400 kilowatts, has been achieved with substantially constant efficiency. Unique design features of the tube include high dissipation vanes which operate at a dissipation density of 5 kilowatts/cm2, a cold water cooled cathode which can withstand electron bombardment power density of several kilowatts/cm2, and an output window assembly which transmits power by radiation into a compact test load. The tube consists of dual cascaded Amplitron network assemblies in a common vacuum envelope. Gain is trimmed to equalize the power generated and dissipated in each stage. Since all parts of the structure are water cooled and no heater power is required, the resulting device is a cold metallic vacuum enclosure with potentially long life capability. Other typical properties of the Amplitron such as low operating voltage, low phase pushing, and phase linearity are preserved in the high power tube. This work has been supported by the Rome Air Development Center under Contract Number AF 30"
"Results of experiments with a 2-cavity extended interaction klystron will be given. The tube is nominally capable of 1 KW - CW at S-band and consists of two five-gap short-slot-coupled or floating drift tube type cavities coupled to the input and output lines by means of a TWT matching section with an adjustable mismatch. The unusual features of the tube are: (1) the length of extension of the resonant cavities (5 electron ballistic wavelengths) and, (2) the incorporation of different and controllable beam-circuit synchronism conditions for the input and output cavities. The results of principal interest which will be described are: (1) the low velocity spread in the spent beam entering the collector, (2) the high total conversion efficiency (65%) obtainable by depression of the collector, which is of standard geometry, and (3) gain in excess of 20 db. Some theoretical treatment of the relationship of efficiency and oscillation stability will be given, as well as comments on the usefulness of such a design for high power mm wave amplification."
"Traditionally, traveling-wave tubes have been thought of as low-efficiency broadband devices. For single frequency operation and bandwidths up to 50mc, klystrons are adequate. Greater bandwidths are conventionally obtained using broadband traveling-wave tubes even though only a fraction of the tube's actual bandwidth may be used. The development of a high efficiency traveling-wave tube that fills the gap between the klystron and the broadband traveling-wave tube, having bandwidths suitable for use in modern high resolution radar systems, is the subject of this paper. Several tubes utilizing the coupled cavity slow-wave circuit have been built and tested. These tubes have been designed to operate over a 200 mc band at X-band. The coupled cavity circuit offers the advantages of extreme ruggedness, good thermal properties, and integral pole pieces, which result in minimum magnet size and weight. As a result of narrow-banding, the gain per unit length is increased. This high gain per unit length of the circuit results in low phase sensitivity per unit gain. Phase sensitivity in the order of 5° for a 1% change in beam voltage has been measured on a 29db gain tube. Several high power narrow-band tubes have been constructed and tested. These tubes have power outputs of 100 to 200 kilowatts peak. Data will be presented on a tube with 29db of small signal gain. This tube has over 100kw peak power output, with the large signal gain flat within a total deviation of ±0.25 db over a bandwith of 160mc; the total weight of this tube is 10 pounds including focusing magnets. The efficiency is 33%, and with collector depression, the efficiency is over 40%. Tubes can be built with up to 60db small signal gain. A 45db gain tube has been constructed and tested, yielding similar results."
"A breakthrough has occurred which eliminates the traveling-wave tube amplifier void in the three millimeter region. Brute force extension of standard techniques combined with a multiplicity of new approaches has yielded an exceptionally wide-band low-noise traveling-wave amplifier for the 70 - 115 Gc band. With noise figure of only 12 db and gain of 25 db, this wide-band amplifier will provide important impetus to radiometric, radar, and communication system exploitation of the 3 mm band. The tubes' .005\" diameter helix is copper-plated and then glazed to the .002\" wide knife edge of a ceramic wedge. The circuits' dielectric loading factor is 0.87 and its loss is 0.3 decibels per guide wavelength. The electron gun is characterized by a low-potential accelerating anode pulling a space charge limited beam current of 4 amp/cm2. The gun is a modification of standard 3-region low-noise guns in that lens cancellation is incorporated to achieve focusing at reasonable magnetic fields. Circuit-to-gun alignment better than .0004\" is achieved, although gun parts are fabricated to standard shop tolerances. This is accomplished by aligning both the cathode and drift tube sections of the gun directly with the helix using a .005\" diameter light beam as a mandrel. The focusing solenoid was fabricated so its transverse components would be less than .03 per cent of the longitudinal field. By these means it has been possible to achieve excellent focusing, 99 per cent transmission being typical. Life experience has been good. All tubes have been emission stable and the single life test vehicle showed improved emission throughout the 1500 hour test period."
"A discussion of the design objectives of a power tube for use with a solid state device driver is presented. In particular, the limiting element has been the cathode heating time. Heater-on to operational time for conventional power tubes has normally been 30 to 45 seconds. Push to talk operation suggests heater-on to operational time of 0.1 seconds. Such a tube has been designed and developed. The design approaches attempted and the final results are presented. Numerous illustrations are included. The final cathode structure, when incorporated in a 250 watt UHF radial beam tetrode power tube, has demonstrated satisfactorily the objective of an instantly operational requirement. Furthermore, the tube has retained its original UHF electrical characteristics. In communications and telemetry service a power tube with this design feature can result in a major conservation of power during stand-by periods, and the ultimate life of the system may be greatly extended when the duty cycle is favorable."
"An electrostatic spherical lens that permits both x- and y-deflection has been developed. The spherical field is formed within a conical surface by dc voltages applied to a series of resistive rings painted on the interior of the envelope. Deflection is accomplished by ac voltage drops around the rings which superimpose a deflection field upon the spherical field. To study the lens, an image intensifier was built. The deflection sensitivity is approximately 500 volts per inch. Over 2 inches of the 5-inch photocathode is usable; beyond this diameter a slight pincushion distortion is noticeable. The diameter of the circle of confusion at the crossover point is approximately ¼ inch. The natural focal length of the lens-aperture combination is 18 inches and can be adjusted to 14 inches by varying the post-acceleration voltage. The techniques for forming the lens, the electron optics, and the performance of the tube are described. The role of this lens in a fast camera application for the display of sequential images is also discussed."
"Conventional cathode-ray tubes with e-s focus employ short-lens devices following an object-drift space. This combination promises small spot-size. This is, however, seldom realized because of severe aberrations in short lenses. Superior results recently have been obtained with long-lens structures, extending to, and including, the object. Such long unipotential lenses have been realized by coating high-resistance spirals inside the tube neck. Theory indicates that the magnification of this arrangement is much smaller than might be expected. Typically, (m) is only 23 per cent up from a thin-lens gun of the same overall length. In overall performance, however, the long lens proves superior because of its greater freedom from spherical aberration. This is brought out by beam-pulsing tests. Here, the spiral lens is found to compare favorably with a magnetic-focus coil and to outperform a conventional e-s lens, both in spot resolution and in ability to handle large beam currents. The spiral-lens has found use in certain types of radar indicators. It is capable of handling beams of large current, emerging from small apertures under large angles of divergence. The spiral lens can be adjusted by one external resistor to focus in the zero-voltage, or \"stable-focus\" mode. Its power dissipation can be held low since there is no interception of beam current. Photographs of gun assemblies with spiral lenses will be shown, as well as typical characteristics achieved with tubes of this kind."
"A novel split plate deflection system for stepped deflection of a 20 KV electron beam to discrete positions of an 8 × 8 square array will be described. The split plate configuration eliminates many of the problems of circuit dissipation and time response of alternate approaches using solid state drivers and conventional digital-analog converters. Overall requirements include high positional accuracy and stability, linear deflection superposition, and mechanical registration; the composite of which positions the beam at each array point to within 3% of maximum deflection. The plates are driven with equal voltages and are weighted in length to provide deflection fields which sum in binary fashion to drive the beam to any of eight positions per axis. The deflection drive is about 85 volts and is switched at 10 mc. Overall delay is on the order of 30 nsec. The drivers are driven by a parallel-fed, low-level, six bit, binary register. The present application involves addressing the electron beam to a specially designed header containing a matrix of silicon diodes. Details of design and construction together with experimental results will be presented."
"This paper describes aperture response resolution measurements as applied to optical and electronic imaging systems. Specific references and examples throughout the discussion are given to the Television Information Storage Tube (TVIST) which was developed under Air Force Contracts AF33"
"A measuring technique is described whereby the secondary emission ratio can be determined using a special experimental set-up employing two electron guns in a demountable vacuum system plus associated electronics. Although originally set up for measurements of semiconductors, the apparatus has also been used for measurement of insulators. The principal features of this technique are: (1) use of a flood electron gun to place the target surface at some voltage, and (2) the use of an amplitude modulated probing electron beam and a narrow-band amplifier at the target to detect the collected probing current at the target. The collection of the probing electron beam occurs when its cathode is more negative than the secondary emitting surface. By positioning the cathode voltage, the surface voltage can be determined as well as the landing energy of the flood electrons. Secondary emission measurements on semiconductors are described for primary energy from 0 eV through first cross-over to several hundred eV. Measurements taken on dielectrics are described from first cross-over to approximately 50 eV above maximum. Advantages of using a measuring technique in which the surface voltage of the target material does not vary are described. This apparatus was used to perform tests on contract DA-44-009-ENG-4868 for U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Laboratories, Ft. Belvoir, Va."
"Universal high level logic is a set of monolithic silicon integrated circuits which have been designed, developed and evaluated for digital applications with a wide variety of requirements. The basic circuit for the universal high level logic was conceived specifically for attaining a set of monolithic circuits which have as combined advantages, high speed, low power, high fanout, capacitive drive capability and high noise rejection. It includes the use of multiple emitter transistors for gate inputs and an inverter stage with a Darlington connection for high fanout and cascade for capacitive driving capability. Built-in short circuit protection is provided in the output. Propagation delays of under 8ċ10 nanoseconds have been obtained with 10m.w. dissipation. Fanouts of 30 and capacitive drive capability of several hundred picofarads are obtained without the use of buffer amplifiers. The performance of high level logic nand gates and flip-flops will be discussed over a range of temperature and operating conditions."
"When a strong field is applied to the surface of a planar p+/n junction, the free carrier concentration at the surface of the lightly doped side may be drastically changed. In fact, degeneracy can be readily induced on the n side by using fields on the order of 106volts/cm. If the planar junction is properly designed, the junction current in the conventional reverse direction can be almost entirely due to tunnelling. A device incorporating this mechanism has been developed in which the electric field is applied by means of a gate electrode insulated from the p-n junction by a conventional oxide. Operational input resistances in excess of 1012ohms have been observed. For potentials of a few volts applied across the reversed-biased p-n junction, a soft V-I characteristic, similar to that of a reverse-biased tunnel diode is present. At higher voltages, the diode current saturates sharply, yielding a pentode-like characteristic with an output resist. ance on the order of two megohms. Small devices with 2 pf. input capacitance have yielded transconductance values of 20 µmhos and open-circuit voltage gains greater than 40. Larger devices have been made with gmof 5000 µmhos and µ greater than 300. Present understanding of the device mechanism indicates that the length of the active region in the triode is extremely small. Thus, low device input capacities should be possible, subject only to limits dictated by current fabrication technology. A model for operation of the device will be discussed, with particular emphasis on gate-controlled tunnelling, on the mechanisms for current saturation, and on speed and stability."
"Greater freedom in circuit design, better isolation, and enhanced temperature stability can be achieved by a combination of epitaxial, diffused, and thin-film techniques for integrated circuitry. The example of an integrated differential amplifier whose performance represents the state-of-the-art even when compared with one made from discrete components is used to illustrate the advantages of this combination. The circuit uses several npn and pnp transistors. A new isolation technique achieves high breakdown voltages and low isolation leakage currents in the pA range. Several samples of the integrated circuit used as example have been successfully made. The complete circuit occupies an area of 60 × 120 mils and consists of 5 npn and 3 pnp transistors and 9 resistors, two of which are diffused. The described fabrication technique and the close spacing of individual circuit elements allows excellent matching of both types of transistors. The input impedance of the circuit is greater than 0.5 MΩ, temperature drift of the output is less than 100 µV/°C referred to the input, and linearity is about ±1%. The combination of diffused and evaporated resistors reduces the temperature coefficient of the circuit to very low values. The design allows the adjustment of the thin-film resistors by an abrasive method and by tapping, and of the diffused resistors by a variation of the diffusion process; the resistance adjustment makes it possible to reduce the output offset voltage to approximately zero. The design uses a new simplified constant-current source which consists of a two-emitter transistor and two resistors. This eliminates the need for temperature-compensating diodes. Structural details of the integrated circuit and the advantages of this method are presented."
"In order to understand and to evaluate evaporated thin films of CdS for their use in electronic devices, a number of diode structures have been extensively studied. These diodes were made rectifying by exploiting the differing properties of metal contacts to the CdS. The metals used behaved as predicted by the classical Schottky theory. Experiments performed under forward bias established that space-charge-limited currents were flowing in the CdS films. These currents indicated a mobility roughly ⅓ to ½ that of single crystal material. Under reverse-bias conditions, Schottky high-field emission was observed. To verify the existence of space-charge-limited currents under forward-bias conditions, the theoretically-predicted inverse-cube dependence for the current as a function of electrode spacing was measured. The square-law currents in the space-charge-limited region implied a free-to-trapped charge ratio of the order of 10-2. The position of the Fermi level in the material indicated, however, that this relatively high free-to-trapped-charge-ratio stemmed from compensation of the deep trapping centers. Free-electron mobilities for the films of up to 100 cm2/volt sec was measured by observing space-charge-limited currents under pulsed conditions. Values for the mobility were checked by using time-of-flight measurements. These same measurements showed a qualitative agreement with the theory of transient space-charge-limited currents. Under reverse-bias conditions, Schottky-emission observations allowed a calculation of the Richardson factor for the Au-CdS junction that was close to the theoretical value of 120 amps cm-2deg-2. Capacitance measurements under reverse bias indicated a true Schottky barrier. These measurements could be used to determine the extent of the penetration of the space-charge region into the CdS film, and thereby to establish the correspondence of the theoretical Schottky-emission field with that measured."
"A nondestructive method of examining passivated silicon integrated circuits will be described, which not only determines the physical topography of the device surface, but also distinguishes between areas at different voltages, enabling a potential map of the passivated device surface to be made. The method, that of scanning electron microscopy, consists of scanning the device surface with an electron probe, and modulating the intensity of a synchronously-scanned cathode-ray tube with a video signal resulting from secondary emission or induced photovoltage from the device, or from a combination of the two. The resolution of this method is presently a few tenths of a micron. Both the secondary electron current which generates the normal video signal, and the electron-beam-induced photovoltage (or photocurrent) have been recorded. Using these recordings, the relative junction depth beneath the device surface can be measured, and the absolute junction depth can be estimated, as can the thickness of evaporated aluminum leads, and the oxide thickness over different areas of the device surface. Lateral junction position relative to the oxide mask has been measured, and the minority-carrier diffusion length and life-time of different regions in the semiconductor have been estimated. The accuracy of this technique will be discussed, together with future applications."
"The conventional view of the influence of crystal imperfections on device performance is based on the fact that devices made with dislocation-free silicon are not better than devices made with less perfect silicon. This view, however, has overlooked the fact that in making a device, defects will be introduced by the fabrication steps. Thus in practice one cannot avoid lattice defects. The questions then arise as to what are the harmful defects; can the number of these defects be reduced; by what processing steps are they introduced; can they be avoided, and if not can they be utilized to advantage? In order to answer these questions, it is necessary to have a non-destructive technique which (a) allows an inspection of the silicon slice after each processing step, and (b) is capable of detecting the existence of structural defects and the segregation of impurities at these defects. Such a technique is x-ray diffraction microscopy. The application of this new technique to the study of harmful defects in the semiconductor substrate, in the epitaxial layer, after thermal oxidation, after the opening of windows in the oxide and after the diffusion process will be discussed. In addition, the technique has been applied to silicon slices containing large numbers of diode or transistor structures. Correlation between defects and breakdown phenomena has been established."
"The dynamic operation of the in-line cryotron is tested by performing pulse measurements on individual devices and also by using the device in free running closed loop oscillators (similar to shift register). The gain of the device is currently insufficient to permit bit transfer from one stage of the oscillator to the next in less than 25 nanoseconds. This propagation time is slow when compared to the 10 nanosecond circuit time constant L/R that was designed for each stage. The slower propagation is shown to be associated with the slow transition of resistance from the superconducting to the normal state and also from the normal to the superconducting state. Pulse measurements on the device indicate that the cryotron switching time is dependent upon the magnitude of the applied magnetic field. The times for switching resistance obtained from the pulse measurements are applied to the analysis of the dynamically operating closed loop register. The maximum oscillating frequency of 5 mc for a four stage closed register was predicted by the analysis and is shown to be in good agreement with the experiment. A similar analysis, using the same cryotron limitations, show the maximum frequency for a two stage closed ring register to be essentially the same as that for a four stage register. Again, this was verified experimentally. Thermal considerations, state-of-the-art fabrication, and testing procedures are discussed along with projected cryotron improvements that could lead to flip-flop time constants of about 10 nanoseconds."
"Present beam splitters allow a maximum beam separation of about 12º, and an electronically-controlled scanner for lasers is non-existent. Design variables are presented for a beam splitter (yielding up to 90º or more beam separation), and for an electronic scanner. Voltage control is obtained by changing input polarization components with a voltage-controlled KDP crystal. The beam splitter consists of two doubly-refracting crystals, either optically clamped or cemented, so as to form an oblique boundary at which one component is totally reflected, and the other, totally transmitted. The beam-separation angle determines the angle of incidence, which in turn specifies the maximum ratio (n1/n2) of indices of refraction for the totally-reflected component and the exact ratio of indices required for total transmission of the other. Experimental measurements of the relative transmission intensities for the two beams are presented for a first experimental model. The scanner makes use of one of the conical refraction phenomena found in biaxial crystals. Here, each direction of vibration has a unique and \"continuous\" direction of refraction; so a \"continuous\" scan then results from a \"continuous\" change in the input vibration direction. Shaping of the output surface, or of some external media properly directs each particular ray. The beam splitter may prove especially useful in sampling, feedback, logic, and intensity-control systems, and the scanner in high-speed sweeping systems, including optical radar and television."
"In 1953 S. J. Smith and E. M. Purcell (Phys. Rev. 92, p. 1069) obtained visible radiation by passing an electron beam over the surface of a metallic optical grating. Subsequently other, less detailed, reports by W. W. Salisbury confirmed this effect. In this paper theoretical predictions are given of the power output, line width and coherence of such a source of radiation both in the visible and far infra red regions of the spectrum. When a thermionically derived electron beam is used, the random effect of shot emission does not render the resultant radiation completely incoherent. The coherence time is equal to the time of flight of an electron across the grating and thus the radiation is quasi-coherent. If however the arrival of an electron at the grating is not a completely random event, as when the electron beam is \"pre-bunched\", then there is a greatly enhanced radiative output at the bunching frequency or at harmonics of this frequency. When a photoemissive cathode is illuminated by two coherent light sources (i.e. lasers) of different optical frequencies the photocurrent has an A.C. component at the difference frequency between the two light sources. This corresponds to a form of partial \"emission bunching\" of the photo electron beam. The use of a suitably designed grating in conjunction with such an electron beam (suitably accelerated) would result in the production of different frequency radiation. This contribution presents some numerical calculations on this topic and describes briefly some initial experiments."
"Incoherent radiation is usually observed emanating from the p or n region of a wafer containing a p-n junction. In the region in which the radiative recombination occurs, the P/I ratio is 1.5 watts per ampere at 77° K for unity quantum efficiency. The ratio of the maximum power which may exit either the p or n surface to that generated within the crystal is approximately 1 : 57. This relationship results in an upper limit of 26.3 milliwatts per ampere. The small ratio is a consequence of the small critical angle in gallium arsenide. When the p-surface is employed as the exit surface, for junction areas approaching 1 cm2, the highest value obtained at 77°K is 14 milliwatts per ampere. For junction areas of 10-2cm2, values of 20 milliwatts per ampere have been observed. The maximum average current which may be passed by such a junction and still maintain a positive slope for dP/dI is 10 to 20 amperes. Thus, the total power obtainable from 1 cm2is less than 0.280 watt. This limitation arises primarily because of the excessive joule dissipation present in such large area junctions. This investigation has resulted in geometrical configurations suitable for average power output in excess of 10 watts and configurations for pulse power output in excess of 1 kilowatt. The total semiconductor area for each of the above systems is less than 20 cm2. The measurement technique and method of calibration is briefly discussed. The data obtained from these structures shows that P/I values as high as 170 milliwatts per ampere have been obtained. It is shown that one of the structures regularly achieves 40 to 60 milliwatts per ampere. Moreover the structures exhibit much less power dissipation which permits a higher power output than present junction structures. The radiation characteristics of the present junction structure are compared to the new structures for dc, average and peak power. For pulsed operation, the average and peak power are given as a function of the period. The maximum peak power is at least 100 times greater than the average power at low duty cycle operation. Under this condition the quantum efficiency is several times greater than the dc value. This is also true for duty cycles of 1 to 10 percent for which the junction heating effect is appreciable. Junction heating becomes appreciable at a duty cycle of 10 percent for junctions exhibiting a resistance value of 0.04 ohms and a current value of 2 amperes. Absorption of the radiation at the contacts also contributes to junction heating, however, to a lesser degree."
"This device consists of an electroluminescent p-n junction diode coupled to a phototransistor. The electrical properties of such amplifying devices are analyzed in the general case, and the properties of a GaAs diode--Si phototransistor pair are compared with this analysis. The spectra of electroluminescent GaAs diodes are shown to consist of a peak of 1.41 eV and another peak at 1.37 eV of approximately equal magnitude. The 1.41 eV peak is strongly absorbed in GaAs and special techniques must be employed to utilize this emission. The 1.37 eV peak, which is due to recombination via Zn or Cd atoms, is absorbed only slightly. The external quantum efficiency of these diodes is about 1% at room temperature. A description is given of the factors which determine this efficiency and of what efficiencies might reasonably be expected from GaAs in the near future. The speed of response of the GaAs diode is a few nanoseconds and does not limit the speed of the pair. The design considerations of the Si phototransistor are described. A very high value of hFEis required in the phototransistor, units used in this device having hFE∼ 500. The speed of the pair is limited by the transistor collector charging time, the emitter charging time, and by the diffusion of minority carriers to the collector junction. One of the major problems in constructing efficient optically coupled amplifiers is the maximization of optical coupling between the source and sensor. Various solutions to these problems and the design compromises involved are described. These devices typically have a current gain of 2 and risetime of about 500 nanoseconds. The outstanding characteristic of this device is the essentially complete electrical isolation of the input and output, the coupling capacitance being less than 1 pf and the coupling resistance being greater than 1013ohms. This provides greater flexibility to the circuit designer, because the input may be operated at a potential hundreds of volts different from the output, and because the feedback present in a normal transistor is absent."
"Hall Isolators are four-terminal semiconductor devices similar to Hall generators that permit unidirectional signal transmission, like Ferrite Isolators. Compared to the latter they are inherently broad-banded, including d-c operation, but also lossy. The minimum theoretical loss depends on the product of the carrier mobility and the available magnetic field. A design is given that actually achieves this minimum loss, usually below 10 db, for a given product. The impedance of Hall isolators can easily be made to match that of tunnel diodes. By combining the two devices the diodes can be operated closely to critical matching, producing amplification large compared to the insertion loss of the isolator and resulting in substantial overall unidirectional gain. Because of the excellent isolation several stages can be cascaded. The amplifiers are frequency limited primarily by the tunnel diodes and by the skin effect in the isolator, but both limitations occur well inside the microwave region."
"Ternary computer logic offers the advantage over other types of logic in the inherently economical number of components required. The ternary logic element which we shall consider is defined as follows. A 2-input, ternary, combinatorial, switching device is a device having two input channels and one output channel. Each channel can have only one of three distinct, specified signals on it at a given time. The particular signal which appears on the output channel is completely determined by the signals on the input channels at that time. The form of the logic element which we shall consider here turns out to be, with its sister element obtained by a reversal of sign, to form a functionally complete set of ternary logic elements. One of the requirements of any logic element is that it exhibits the closure property, that is, the output takes only the values of the inputs. This requires a non-linear phenomena. The saturable Hall effect exhibits such a non-linear phenomena and we have applied it as a ternary logic element."
"The paper covers the design and performance of improved low magnetic detection devices combining optimized Hall plates and magnetic concentrators. The factors relating to the fabrication of a high gain concentrator are presented, and a Hall effect device compatible with this magnetic structure is then developed. Wide band width, stable operation, shock and vibration, output voltage, power requirements, all relative to low level performance are considered. Performance data from several devices is presented and operational characteristics discussed. The relationships of concentrator length and air gap or Hall plate thickness are utilized to provide magnetic gains of over 100 times that of the ambient magnetic field. Indium Arsenide, Indium Antimonide and other III-IV compound semiconductor devices are shown to be ideally suited for this application due to the combination of high mobility, low resistivity, high purity and temperature characteristics. Exceptional performance is achieved in one sensor designed for operation at -196°C. This sensor exhibits an overall sensitivity of 2500 volts per ampere kilogauss as well as exceptional stability. In conclusion, the feasability of further improvement in sensitivity, weight reduction, size and power requirements is discussed."
"Whereas conventional Hall multipliers make no use of the vectorial aspect of the Hall effect, the devices to be discussed here are genuine vector-product generators, able to accept vectorial input signals and to produce an output signal in the direction of, and proportional to, the vector product of the input vectors. In particular, devices will be considered which generate either an output vector of fixed direction from two rotating input vectors or a rotating vector from one rotating and one fixed-direction input vector (the rotations occurring at constant angular frequencies). In the first case an output signal containing either the sum or the difference of the input frequencies is obtained. In the second case separate vectorial output components rotating in the same plane but in different directions can be extracted. Possible applications of such devices to telecommunication problems will be indicated. The validity of the new principle was confirmed with a cube-shaped Hall-element (instead of a conventional thin plate), with low efficiency, and with a cruciform element, with improved efficiency (a thin-plate version, possessing the efficiency of conventional Hall multipliers will also be discussed). The choice of semiconductor material and the construction of the new devices will be treated in some detail."
"The magnetoresistance effect when used as a rectifier offers the possibility of low off field resistance with high current capabilities. This type of controlled rectifier in action is essentially independent of applied voltage. Possible applications exist where low voltage high current switching is needed. Various device configurations of InSb and Bi were studied experimentally and to a limited extent theoretically at room temperature and at liquid nitrogen temperature. An off field to on field resistance ratio of 52 to 1 was obtained at room temperature and 175 to 1 at liquid nitrogen temperature. An analog computer study was made to compute theoretical efficiencies of DC to AC conversion for various magnetic fields and various off field to on field resistance ratios."
"The behavior of a Corbino disk of InSb in a static transverse magnetic field and a high frequency electric field is investigated. Measurements and analysis show that, owing to an internal magnetic field effect, the impedance of the Corbino disk shows a frequency dependence already at microwave frequencies. Measurements performed on rectangular samples show the same effect even more pronounced. It is concluded that in the case of medium to high Hall angles this effect may determine an upper frequency limit of Hall effect devices, which is considerably lower than the dielectric relaxation frequency."
"A Hall element with characteristics suitable for application in an analog multiplier has been designed and developed. General multiplier specifications called for inputs up to 2 × 10-3amps and 104gauss maximum. Various materials and sensitivity ranges were considered for the element. Stability and circuitry considerations led to the selection of silicon for use in the element. Using approximately 150 ohm-cm n-type silicon the resulting elements exhibited outputs of 1.6 to 1.7 volts at maximum input current and field and outputs of about 1 millivolt at maximum input current and zero magnetic field. Their responses were found to be linear to within approximately ± 0.12 per cent at room temperature over the full range of input parameters."
"There are many practical applications of galvanomagnetic effects of metallic and intermetallic semiconductors in electronic devices, most of them utilizing the Hall effect. On account of its characteristics as a two dimensional multiplier in nature and its simple circuit assembly, the Hall effect element has attracted more attention than the magnetoresistance element which needs inevitably an extra biasing magnetic field of a considerable magnitude to improve the non-linearity of its characteristic. In order to overcome this shortcoming a type of push-pull arrangement with 2 magnetoresistance elements in circuit is recommended, and the result is a three dimensional multiplier. A few examples of the applications of this kind of multiplier will be described in the paper, such as: (1) analog computing element which may carry out a large number of mathematical operations, (2) poly-phase power meter which is capable of showing the total power, (real, reactive, or apparent), in an electrical network with a single indication, (3) amplifiers and oscillators, (4) mixer, modulator and demodulator, (5) de current transformers, etc. In comparison with similar devices based on Hall effect, the magnetoresistance electronic devices have the advantages of higher sensitivity, better efficiency, and facility for adjustment. All the devices will be operating at ordinary room temperature. The construction of the magnetoresistance element will be discussed and some experimental results will be given."
"Some theoretical aspects of the wide-gap emitter transistor will be reviewed and discussed briefly. A novel process which has been used to produce some experimental pnp wide-gap emitter transistors involving both the epitaxial and the diffusion processes will be described. The transistor uses the p-n GaAs-Ge heterojunction as the emitting junction and the n-p Ge homojunction as the collecting junction. Base width of the order of one micron or less can be obtained reproducibly. Experimental results of units made in the laboratory will be described with respect to the following: 1) Fabrication processes for making the experimental units. 2) The base width control. 3) The I-V and C-V characteristics of the emitter heterojunction and the collector homojunction. 4) The effect of crystal orientation on the geometry of the emitter heterojunction. 5) The current gain and the injection efficiency of the wide-gap emitter diffused-base transistor. The reproducibility of the transistor characteristics by the novel fabrication process has made possible the feasibility study and the evaluation of the wide-gap emitter transistor. Some aspects of the factors pertinent to the control of the fabrication process will also be discussed."
"Recent advances in the preparation of GaAs material and in GaAs technology have enabled diffused-base, alloyed emitter GaAs transistors to be constructed which exhibit fT's in excess of 1 Gc. Because of the greater band-gap (1.38 eV) of GaAs, these transistors should be operable at temperatures exceeding 350°C. The physical method of fabrication, however, limits these experimental transistors to a junction operating temperature of slightly greater than 200°C. In this paper the techniques employed to construct these transistors will be described; the limitations imposed on operating temperature by state-of-the-art technology and means of overcoming these limitations will be discussed. Data will be presented to characterize these GaAs transistors at elevated temperatures and will show that high frequency current gain (hfe) varies only slightly with temperature. Graphs displaying the variation of the other \"h\" parameters with temperature will be given, as will plots of the behavior of VCE(SAT)and Icowith increasing temperature. The significance of the high temperature stability of these GaAs transistors as it applies to both small signal and high power devices will be indicated."
"A symmetrical silicon mesa transistor, which has high symmetry of current gains and low saturation resistance and is very useful in certain switching circuits, is fabricated by utilizing the latest techniques. A p-type wafer with very low resistivity is used as the collector of the transistor, an n-type epitaxial layer grown on the wafer as the base and a p-type region diffused into the layer as the emitter."
"A new device structure is described which allows fabrication of high voltage, passivated, silicon transistors and other semiconductor devices, which exhibit superior electrical stability. In the annual process, a \"worst case\" channel is induced during thermal oxidation of the wafer. A highly doped annular ring is implanted in the collector by epitaxy or solid state diffusion, adjacent to and completely surrounding the collector-base junction. Because the ring is of the same conductivity type as the collector, it terminates the channel and allows realization of a breakdown voltage commensurate with that of the collector material, along with very low leakage currents and stable junctions. It is shown, in the non-annular transistor, that the channel is induced in the high resistivity collector region by a positively charged species in the silicon-dioxide, resulting in a large majority carrier channel current which is additive to the normal junction leakage current. A model for the annular structure is developed and the electrical characteristics of devices utilizing this structure are explained. It is also shown that annular transistors exhibit better long-term stability under ionizing irradiation than similar geometries made by other techniques. Examples of PNP transistors produced by the annular process will be discussed, including a 200 volt silicon power transistor."
"To take full advantage of new developments in solid-state memory technology, driver transistors with greatly reduced switching transient times are needed, while still maintaining existing voltage and current capabilities. This paper describes the development of a transistor with just such properties. It is a double-diffused, epitaxial, silicon NPN planar structure employing a unique impurity gradient in the epitaxial layer. Since the switching transient time in a common emitter configuration is essentially the base charge, QB, plus the collector charge, QC, divided by the base drive current Ib, the design of such a transistor involves the optimization of QBand Qcat the desired switching current capability. Since Qcin general increases linearly with collector junction area and is relatively insensitive to collector current, this would indicate that a small size is desirable. On the other hand, QBin general increases non-linearly with a decrease in collector junction area; thus a large size is desirable. Since these effects are mutually incompatible, a compromise has to be reached. The result is a transistor with a BVCBO> 80 v., a BVCEO> 30 v., that will switch 1 ampere through a 25 volt collector voltage swing in 8 nsec. or less, 10 to 90%, with a 100 ma. base drive. With increased base drive, 400 ma., the switch time can be reduced to 2 nsec. VBE(SAT)is less than 1.5 v. and VCE(SAT)is less than 1.0 v."
"Since transistors have been used as drivers in ferrite core solid-state memories, the push for increased performance has been relentless. To compound the problem, the increased performance has always been required in all directions simultaneously, such as higher operating voltage, higher current capability, higher speed, and lower saturation drops. Along with the foregoing requirements, high reliability is also mandatory. This paper describes the development of a transistor with improved performance in all of the categories mentioned above. It is a double-diffused, epitaxial, silicon NPN planar structure employing a unique impurity gradient in the epitaxial layer and a unique ohmic contact geometry. The result is a transistor with a BVCBO> 180 v., a BVCEO> 90 v., that will switch 600 ma. through a 90 volt collector voltage swing in 35 nsec., 10 to 90%, with a 60 ma. base drive. With increased base drive, 100 ma., the switching time can be reduced to < 25 nsec. VBE(SAT)is less than 1.5 v. and VCE(SAT)is less than 1.0 v."
"Planar epitaxial silicon transistors have been made which, when used as oscillators, deliver in excess of one watt at 1 Gc with 30% efficiency. Because of the very high power densities at which such a device must operate, it is of paramount importance that heat be removed efficiently from the active area. The design of these devices takes advantage of the planar structure to distribute the active area to facilitate heat removal. The device geometry consists of a number of individual segments interconnected by a low inductance metal film. Each segment has an emitter area of 1.9 × 10-5cm2. The number of segments connected to form the transistor structure is determined by the desired power and impedance levels. Data will be given on structures consisting of up to eight segments, corresponding to a total emitter area of 3.4 × 10-4cm2. Even for this case of eight segments, the silicon chip is 80 × 10-4cm2. The importance of such parameters as uniformity of current distribution and stripe width upon the operation of these transistor structures will be illustrated and discussed together with the effects of limiting carrier velocity upon the optimum design of the doping profile through the epitaxial film."
"A new high performance transistor has been developed which gives 5 watts of output power at 500 Mc with more than 6 db gain in a Class C amplifier circuit. This transistor makes use of a new geometry which substantially increases the ratio of emitter edge to emitter area, achieving a ratio of 8 mils of edge/square mil of emitter area. This improved geometry makes possible a substantial extension of the high-frequency output power capability of transistors. For this large area unit fmaxis in excess of 1 KMC, BVCEO(sua)greater than 90 volts, and dissipation capability in excess of 15 watts. The new geometry makes use of a large array of separate emitter elements, 144 in all, each of which is small enough to achieve a high periphery to area ratio. The interconnection of the emitter-base structure makes use of both metallic and semiconductor regions to spread the current flow suitably. Design considerations relating to transit and charging times and to the specific choices of resistivities and device configuration will be described. A new package structure will be described which combines the advantages of BeO collector isolation, good thermal resistance (10°C/watt), and low parasitic reactances. The critical aspects of photoresist techniques will be elaborated upon. Performance data at 500 Mc in a 5 watt amplifier will be described. An oscillator circuit capable of delivering 1.5 watts of output power with 30% conversion efficiency at 800 Mc will be shown."
"Recent requirements for high power transistors in the UHF region have necessitated certain new design concepts. This paper treats these concepts and their application to a device which has recently delivered 1.0 watt with 10 db gain and 3.0 watts with 5 db gain as an amplifier at 500Mc. High frequency power gain requires that the ratio of the emitter edge to emitter area be maximized, leading to the conventional linear design. Gain considerations also tend to require that the ratio of the emitter area to the collector area be maximized. These considerations lead to the unbalanced linear design in which the base surrounding the emitter is only that required to support the transistor action over the entire emitter length. The linear design has been successfully utilized in an interdigitated pattern at low power levels, but experience with this and other re-entrant patterns has indicated thermal problems at higher power levels. The annular pattern employing linear design has been quite successful at the higher power levels, but is wasteful of crystal area. A spiral based on the annular design provides the most efficient usage of crystal area for a continuous device. This pattern in conjunction with new breakdown voltage and space-charge current limitation considerations has produced a more satisfactory thermal design for power transistors in this UHF region."
"Extended interaction output circuits for klystrons offer many advantages over conventional circuits. Most important are increased gain-bandwidth product, greater power handling ability and increased efficiency. Possible sacrifices are increased length and finite stability margin. In the past year, theoretical and experimental studies have been undertaken at Varian Associates to evaluate incorporation of extended interaction into practical devices. Experimental tubes used are production-type X-band 36 kv, 70 kw pulse amplifier klystron bodies. These have been fitted with two-gap coupled cavity output resonators of different phase velocities (lengths). Extensive comparisons between the above tubes and similar production tubes have been made showing clear areas of superiority of the extended interaction circuits. By varying phase velocity and loading, increases up to 40% in output power or increases up to 70% in bandwidth have been demonstrated. Self-oscillation could not be induced near usable operating parameters. Calculation and measurement of small signal negative beam loading agreed well and gave assurance of safety from self-oscillation. Small signal gain and beam loading were found to agree with the space-charge theory of Wessel-Berg. As was found by Priest and Leidigh, behavior of the circuit at saturation levels was considerably different from small signal or single cavity klystron theory. Attempts to explain this discrepancy have resulted in a computer ballistic analysis with low level space-charge corrections. Many of the details of saturation are explained from the resulting knowledge of electron velocity spread and change in dc velocity with application of ac modulation."
"The paper describes the interaction of a pulsed power-perveance beam (5 kv, .4a) and a hydrogen plasma to obtain high gain and high efficiency in the S-band amplifier used. A well-formed, pulsed, linear beam in semiconfined flow is passed along the axis of a hydrogen plasma column immersed in a steady, axial magnetic field. The plasma is generated by a double, hot-cathode Penning discharge and is controlled by varying the discharge current and the pressure of the ambient hydrogen gas. Microwave signals are directly coupled to and from the beam-plasma system by gridless-gap cavities. The device described is VacIon pumped and contains a palladium leak tube to act as the source of hydrogen gas. A small-diameter drift tube provides a differential pumping scheme that protects the beam-forming cathode from the high pressures of the plasma region and resulting back-ion bombardment. This arrangement assures long beam-cathode life, repeatable data, and a smooth nonrippling beam entering the beam-plasma interaction region. Results are given for analytical work on the plasma-density profile, and these results used to compute beam-plasma gain for the finite geometry. The experimental data include preliminary diagnosis of plasma density, and gain and efficiency of the device as a function of gas pressure, discharge current, and axial magnetic field."
"An alternate technique of focusing beams previously requiring high cost platinum cobalt magnets is described. The \"crossed-circle\" structure using Alnico V bar magnets significantly reduces the intrinsic cost of focusing high density electron beams. The periodic \"crossed-circle\" focusing assembly consists of two rows of magnet, pole-piece, magnet sets perpendicular to each other and radial to the axis of the tube: the \"cross\". The flux return path between the bar magnets is a steel shell of appropriate thickness: the \"circle\". The end view of the structure exhibits a similarity to a four pole dc motor. A discussion of 1 Kw pulsed X and C band traveling-wave tubes using this focusing structure will be presented. The tubes provide greater than 1 Kw from 7 to 11 Gc and from 4 to 8 Gc respectively. The tubes are grid controlled and operate at duty cycles up to .01. PPM magnetic compression of the beam, by a factor of 2 to 1, which permits the same gun to be used on both tubes, will also be described."
"This paper will describe a device capable of interacting with the fast space charge wave of an electron beam, utilizing a conventional helix. Complete energy interchange occurs for two coupled positive energy modes if the propagation characteristics of the two waves are identical over the band and the Kompfner dip length is independent of frequency. In this device the Kompfner dip condition is satisfied for operation over an octave bandwidth. Experimental evidence of this type of operation has been obtained on both C and S-band versions. The device has a number of interesting applications. One of these, a duplexer, has been designed to operate at 10 kw peak power, 200 watts of average power, and protects the receiver against signal power greater than 10 mw. The operating characteristics of this device will be described."
"In an electrostatically focused klystron (ESFK) the electron beam is focused by a periodic system of electrostatic lenses. These lenses are formed by the walls of successive cavities and a ring shaped electrode located between adjacent cavities. The latest model of the ESFK employs a solid beam of circular cross section having a perveance of 0.7 × 10-6a/v3/2. By a proper choice of lens dimensions, optimum operating performance of the tube is achieved with the lens voltages equal to cathode voltage. The tube incorporates four cavities and is of all metal-ceramic construction. Cavities and collector are water-cooled. The rf output coupler is a standard wave-guide flange containing a beryllia window. At the present moment, the tube which was designed for an average power output of 5 kw is still being tested. With a beam voltage of 25 kv, and a frequency of 2.8 Gc, the following, results have been achieved to date: Power output 28 kw peak Saturated gain 30 db Small Signal Gain > 67 db Saturated efficiency 41% All measurements were taken at a duty cycle of 0.003. With a previous model of the ESFK, which was limited only by the power handling capability of the coaxial rf window, an average rf output power of 850 watts was achieved."
"Until recently, the power gain of high power, injected-beam crossed-field amplifiers has been limited by regeneration effects and the inability to obtain adequate cold rf isolation across circuit severs. Both of these effects are caused by the propagation of rf energy in spurious waveguide modes; the so-called \"fast-wave\" modes characteristic of the two-conductor coaxial waveguide formed by the delay line, tube body surface and the insulated sole electrode. The coupling from the slow-wave mode to these spurious fast-wave modes occurs at the transitions between the waveguide couplers and the slow-wave structure and at the discontinuities caused by imperfections of the slow-wave structure itself. The spurious propagation occurs mainly in the principal TEM coaxial waveguide mode. It causes regeneration in the sections of the amplifier between circuit severs, regeneration due to rf coupling to the gun electrodes and traveling-wave instability due to rf feed-through across the circuit severs. These unwanted effects can be reduced by careful matching to the slow-wave structure and very uniform fabrication of the slow-wave structure. However, to realize the desired very high gain, additional suppression is necessary. It is shown that the judicious placement of rf lossy material can reduce the propagation of the spurious energy to the point where power gains of 30 db or greater may be realized. It is further shown that this technique can be employed in amplifiers producing several kilowatts of cw power with no heating or out-gassing of the rf lossy material. The placement of the loss and the techniques of construction to eliminate heating are discussed."
"During the 1960-61 period the inverted coaxial magnetron passed through the feasibility stage and became a highly refined microwave tube. This type of magnetron is unusual in several different respects. Its cathode takes the form of a ring which is located around the vane resonator system rather than being a rod located at the center of the system as in a conventional magnetron. The resonator system uses more than 100 vanes, which is a very large number compared to the 16 to 22 vanes used in conventional tubes. Its output waveguide is circular and operates in the TE01mode which permits large output powers while minimizing window difficulties. Two years ago work began on the development of an inverted coaxial magnetron to operate with a 20 nanosecond pulse length. The objective was to develop a tube having more than 5,000 hours life while generating 50 kw, 20 nanosecond pulses at a frequency of 24 Gc. The major problems centered around the short pulse operation and the problems of evaluating the performance characteristics. In particular there was some concern initially that the high \"Q\" of the resonant cavity tube was not conducive to the short fall times required to generate an acceptable 20 nanosecond pulse. The paper will cover the basic principles of operation of the inverted coaxial magnetron, some of the design problems and their solutions, and some aspects of the evaluating techniques employed."
"Substantial increases in overall magnetron amplifier efficiency have been realized through a theoretical and experimental study of crossed-field depressed collectors. Overall tube efficiency is increased from 30% for an X-band 1 kw tube without a depressed collector to 38% with a depressed collector operating at cathode potential. Experimental results are presented showing the optimum collector voltage as a function of saturation of the tube. Of two types of experimental collectors the more novel type collector which eliminated the problems of secondary emission was found to produce more overall tube efficiency than the more common field jump collector. A large-signal computer program is used to calculate the mutual electronic space charge forces to obtain trajectories in the region of collector depression. Spent electron bunches, the density and modulation of which were calculated by a digital computer program for an injected-beam crossed-field amplifier, are used as input to the collector problem. The theoretical calculations of efficiency and saturation are compared with observed results of experimental collectors. Spent beam potential profiles calculated by the computer program are compared with experimentally observed values. Using these potential profiles the overall efficiency of one-stage, two-stage, and multiple-stage collectors are compared. It is found that multiple.stage collectors are little more efficient than two-stage collectors and two-stage collectors are not appreciably more efficient than one collector at cathode voltage."
"A new means of rapidly tuning magnetron oscillators by a continuous rotating motion has been developed, permitting tuning rates 10 to 50 times faster than was previously possible with these tubes. The technique offers either controlled or completely random frequency agility on a pulse-to-pulse basis, and retains the inherent magnetron advantages of small size and weight, high efficiency, and simplicity of design, leading to high reliability. By utilizing a continuously rotating tuner element, rather than the reciprocating elements formerly employed, problems of inertia, tuner drive power and drive system response are eliminated. A simple variable-speed rotary motor provides the driving force. The rotary tuning plate has been designed for adaptation to tubes at various frequency bands. Uses of the device are centered around ECCM applications, but have also been shown to offer radar range enhancement and avoidance of rf interference between electronic equipments. Information will be presented in this paper illustrating the construction and mechanical layout, as well as the electrical theory and performance results achieved with the new device. Techniques for fast-tracking with an electronically-tuned oscillator will be shown. The present state of the rotary-tuned magnetron art will be discussed, as well as probable limits and likelihood of future development in this area."
"Because of the rapid impedance variation with frequency encountered in the space-harmonic slow-wave structures normally employed in high power, broadband injected-beam crossed-field amplifiers, a flat gain vs. frequency characteristic is very difficult to achieve if one is limited to a single synchronous velocity. This paper will present a new method of adjusting this characteristic to any desired degree of flatness or any other reasonable frequency-gain variation. The adjustment is made externally during hot test and may be modified at any time during the life of the amplifier. This method makes use of a slightly dispersive slow-wave structure (i.e., the wave phase velocity varies slightly with frequency) and an electron beam velocity programmed to vary along the interaction space. By making various portions of the structure synchonous at various frequencies, any portion of the gain vs. frequency characteristic may be emphasized relative to any other portion."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The author index contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in the proceedings record."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A brief professional biography of Duane McRuer is presented."
"A procedure for conducting a meaningful simulation of a man-machine system is presented and illustrated by various specific examples. The relationship of the various types of simulators to their use is outlined and desirable detailed characteristics are delineated. The tradeoffs between simulator complexity, realism and the interrelation of various feedback sensing cues (motion, visual or tactile) are discussed and the necessity of validating the simulation by use of a variable stability and variable control system aircraft is noted. It is shown that as the problem to be studied becomes more complicated or the questions asked of the simulation become more quantitative, the simulator characteristics must become more flight-like, since in the last analysis the best place to ask the question is when the pilot and the vehicle are immersed in the true environment (i.e., flight)."
"Techniques for predicting pilot ratings for multi-axis control tasks using single-axis rating data are evaluated. A method based on a nonlinear relationship between pilot rating and pilot generated lead time constant obtained from human response studies is shown to give excellent results."
"Experimental simulation studies were conducted to determine the effects of displayed information content and hand control device configuration on the ability of pilots to stabilize the attitude of a tumbling space vehicle and to maintain a fixed attitude while external torques were being applied. Four pilot-engineers performed both tasks in a fixed-base manned space vehicle simulator which was mechanized to provide three degrees of angular freedom. Four types of hand control devices and two display content conditions were investigated. Results indicated that the amount of displayed information was a powerful variable for both tasks. A strategy or technique for accomplishing the stabilization maneuver was evolved which approached an optimum solution in terms of energy expenditure or fuel consumption."
"The nature of remote manipulation is briefly discussed and several manipulator devices are described. The problem of manipulation with delay is considered, and an experiment to determine the effect of delay on completion time for a simple manipulative task is reported. It appears that under certain circumstances the time required with delay can be predictd from performance measures which are independent of delay."
"The functional characteristics of a manual flight control system which a controls engineer must consider are presented and discussed. Each factor is treated as a separate entity, with its effect on other functional characteristics noted. The application of the functional characteristics in the design of the control system is explained. Some of the pitfalls and problems to be avoided are discussed. Application of systematic analysis of each characteristic has been found to be a necessary step in the evolution of satisfactory manual flight control systems."
"A sampled data model is presented to describe the action of the control system for directing human gaze at a moving target. The plausibility of the model is supported by its successful prediction of experimental tracking characteristics under variable effective visual feedback. The feedback is altered by addition of an external signal from measured eye position to target position, and its effects on the frequency and transient responses of the model and the experimental records are compared."
"The distribution functions of amplitude of the error, response and remnant signals in a simple, compensatory, manual control system were computed for a variety of input signal bandwidths and spectral shapes. χ<R>2</R> goodness-of-fit tests of the normality of these distributions were performed. Distribution functions of the measured values of several transformations of the describing functions for the human operator and for the closed-loop system were also computed and compared to a normal distribution in order to find the form that was most nearly normal."
"Theoretical predictions and experimental data for the limits of manual control of unstable oscillatory second-order controlled elements are presented. At the limits of manual control, amplitude distributions of the system error and operator output were nearly Gaussian. The quasi-linear describing function model of the human operator implied from analysis of the experimental measurements indicates that the operator was capable of generating equalization equivalent to a double lead and that, for certain controlled elements, he adopted a response behavior analogous to quasiprecognitive tracking with a compensatory display."
"The parameters in an a priori form of the pilot describing function have been measured for pitch axis stabilization in a hovering aircraft simulation. Controlled element characteristics of static gain and damping were varied, using an input disturbance representative of atmospheric turbulence at very low altitudes. The pilot describing function parameters were measured during each run by an analog mechanization of the method of steepest descent. The results show that, for a given level of damping, the pilot adjusts his gain as the airframe static gain changes in order to hold a constant forward-loop gain. This value of forward-loop gain increases as damping decreases, thus maintaining a relatively well-defined band of open-loop cross-over frequencies between 1 and 2 rad/sec. The pilot utilizes lead in order to provide a phase margin between 20° and 60°."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"A test procedure for determining the radial power factor of insulating tapes in power cable is presented. Three-terminal type electrodes are mounted in a test cell and pressure is applied to the insulating tapes.<<ETX>>"
"The basic purpose of IEEE 127 is to serve as a guide to show preferred (steady-state) frequency and voltage ratings for primary power systems. A careful study, was accomplished by the Flight Vehicle Systems Integration Subcommittee. The attached tabulation gives recommended standard frequencies and voltages for all types of aerospace electric apparatus for which standards appear practical."
"The standard presents definitions of digital computing terms avoiding programming and analog terminology. Each term is accompanied by definitive text and cross referencing.<<ETX>>"
"This Standard provides a uniform system of letter symbols for electrical quantities and parameters as applied to semiconductor devices. It is divided into three Sections: (1) electrical quantities, dealing primarily with voltage, current, and time quantities; (2) electrical parameters, dealing with the relationship between specific electrical quantities; and (3) list of letter symbols in alphabetical order. The electrical parameters of Section 2 are ratios of the terminal electrical quantities, i.e. two-terminal-pair open-and-short-circuit ratios.<<ETX>>"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The signal and the signal-to-noise ratio in a typical magneto-optic readout scheme intended for use in a high-capacity high-speed memory were analyzed. It was found that such a system does not yield higher signal levels and signal-to-noise ratios than are available with conventional magnetic head readout in such a peripheral memory. Calculations show that for 10-3-inch diameter bits recorded on an iron film in a system using an Osram XBO 150 high-pressure Xenon lamp, the signal-to-noise ratio at a megacycle transfer rate is in the neighborhood of 1. The maximum signal has about 300 photoelectrons per bit at the photocathode. It was concluded that although a magneto-optic system is impractical for such application, it may still be used in some display devices or in a medium-speed, medium-density fast access memory."
"Programs to detect errors in digital computer operation have been written to serve as a maintenance tool or as part of a machine acceptance procedure. However, the detection of an error is only the beginning of any maintenance or repair procedure; it is also necessary that the error be diagnosed (located). This paper describes in some detail a program which detects and logs machine errors and then transfers to a diagnostic section to locate the error. A sample of the diagnostic program is given to illustrate the technique that is used."
"A concept for approximate digital integration is presented. The integrator is equivalent to the RC-integrator (but has no drift) and has an arbitrary long time constant. An example is given showing application to polarity coicidence correlatioin detection of signals in noise."
"A concept for approximate digital integration is presented. The integrator is equivalent to the RC-integrator (but has no drift) and has an arbitrary long time constant. An example is given showing application to polarity coincidence correlation detection of signals in noise."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1963."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The following letter from Dr. Willis H. Ware, Chairman of the Governing Board of AFIPS, to US President John F. Kennedy, and the President's reply are presented here in their entirety. The President's reply constitutes a recognition of the role that computer scientists in the United States have played in strengthening the country."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The functional states of a neural (combinational) net of prescribed interconnection geometry and over-all net function are characterized and enumerated. The problem is formalized for a class of nets having an arbitrary number of inputs and outputs by introducing the notion of a Boolean matrix."
"The functional states of a neural (combinational) net of prescribed interconnection geometry and over-all net function are characterized and enumerated. The problem is formalized for a class of nets having an arbitrary number of inputs and outputs by introducing the notion of a Boolean matrix. The concept of stability of neural nets (which is closely related to the set of functional states over which the input-output function is invariant) is precisely defined and evaluated for certain general classes of nets."
"This paper considers the application of signal flow graph techniques to the problem of characterizing sequential circuits by regular expressions. It is shown that the methods of signal flow graph theory, with the proper interpretation, apply to state diagrams of sequential circuits. The use of these methods leads to a simple algorithm for obtaining a regular expression describing the behavior of a sequential circuit directly from its state diagram."
"Tape magnetization characteristics resulting from an input switching are analyzed from a general point of view. A previously developed theory1 is first applied to the simple switching between zero and saturation field levels to determine the recorded magnetization and recorded pulse shape. From this analysis the characteristics of RZ pulses can be determined. The analysis is then extended to determine the recorded characteristics resulting from switching between saturation levels. These two cases of switching are the basis for analyzing the tape magnetization resulting from more general switching. Switching between larger than saturation fields is investigated, as is switching between any two input levels. Switching with a nonzero time constant is considered, as is switching between saturation levels with a time delay at zero field. Finally, the recorded pulses resulting from consecutive saturation switchings are determined. Although the analysis is based on a linear magnetization curve, a qualitative description of the effect of a nonlinear magnetization curve is also given."
"RZ and NRZ recorded pulse characteristics are determined theoretically and verified experimentally. Quantitative expressions are derived for the pulse location, width, shape and amplitude as a function of input current, head-tape spacing and gap width. The analysis is based upon the arctangent approximation for the head longitudinal field component and an empirical (also arctangent) expression for the tape magnetization curve. From the analysis, not only the effect, but the separate effects of field shape and magnetization curve on the pulse characteristics can be evaluated. It is shown that as the current increases, the pulse moves from the gap edge region towards the gap center line and then out again. The amount of pulse displacement, as a function of current, increases rapidly with larger head-to-tape spacing. The record drop-out sensitivity is directly related to the location of the pulse for NRZ peak sensing systems. At an optimum current level for different spacings, the location of the recorded pulse is found to be almost fixed; that is to say, the recorded dropout does not appear as a shift in pulse location but only as a drop in pulse amplitude. Since for small current and thus for small fields the remanent magnetization on the tape is approximately proportional to the applied field, the shape of the recorded magnetization, hence the recorded pulse, is given by the shape of the record head field."
"A digital technique for manipulating symbols defining a mathematical expression is introduced and it is shown how this technique can be applied so that a digital computer can automatically compile an analog computer program directly from a mathematical description of the problem to be solved. The mathematical problem considered is that of solving a system of nonlinear first-order differential equations with initial conditions. It is assumed that these equations have been prescaled and are expressed in terms of the physical variables rather than the original mathematical variables. A résumé of a method for reducing the original symbol sequence defining the differential equations to symbol subsequences from which the analog program can be formed is given. It is then shown how the analog program is to be generated from these symbol sequences. To illustrate the detailed application of the technique an analog program is compiled for a particular system of differential equations."
"A diode-resistor network technique for simulating functions of any number of variables is described. The function is approximated by a polyhedron, or its N-dimensional equivalent, and this polyhedral model is generated directly by the circuit. The circuit is formed of two cascaded sections: the first, using resistive networks, generates voltages representing each of the faces of the polyhedron; the second section, using analog diode logic, selects the appropriate voltage as the output. The analog diode logic uses basic circuits similar to those used in digital logic. It is shown that the analog logic can be described by a distributive lattice, closely related to Boolean algebra. Methods of logic synthesis are developed. Circuit design is discussed, and it is shown how the effect on the logic section of the finite source impedance of the resistive networks which feed it can be turned to practical advantage. The specific example of the multiplication of two variables is studied in some detail, providing a basis of comparison with the known techniques such as the quarter-squares and log-antilog methods. Finally, test results on a simple three-variable function generator are given. The method is not incremental in nature, and differs from current techniques in this regard. Thus the setting up of a function on a generator is simplified, owing to the noninteraction between segments. Also, the area of the input space to be covered is adjustable to correspond with the input domain of the function."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1963."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"A method is developed for the synthesis of arbitrary combinational logical functions using three-input majority elements. The networks that result are in the form of modified trees. It is shown that an average saving of 30 per cent in majority elements is made on trees of majority elements which individually produce ``AND'' and ``OR'' functions. Several variations of the basic method are developed and the results are compared with the algebraic methods of Cohn and Lindaman."
"A new logical algebra, ternary threshold logic, is defined and developed. The system is shown to be capable of representing all three-valued functions, and two methods of synthesizing these functions from their truth tables are given. One of the methods produces a normal form that is analogous to the disjunctive normal form of Boolean algebra. A list of single-threshold-operator equivalents of certain normal forms is given. It is pointed out that magnetic film parametrons may be made to exhibit the logical properties of the operators of the system. Designs for ternary adder and comparator stages are given that could be constructed out of magnetic film parametrons."
"This report gives a complete catalog of minimal NOR circuits and minimal NAND circuits, assuming complements not available, for all logic functions of three variables. Minimal circuits for a function are those that satisfy these conditions: 1) The number of logic blocks of the circuit is least possible for performing the function; 2) The number of connections in the circuit (total number of inputs) is least possible, subject to the condition that the circuit satisfies the first condition. In addition, the circuits satisfy certain reasonable restrictions on fan-in and fan-out."
"The object of this paper is to study feedback in sequential machines, to classify (according to their seriousness) and analyze errors which arise in the state transitions of machines, and to establish some relations between feedback and errors. It is shown that the previously developed algebraic methods1,2 supply the necessary tools and a rigorous basis for this theory, and relate these new results to previously obtained results about the structure of sequential machines. For example, this work yields the necessary methods to detect the existence of a decomposition of machines into component machines so that the most ``serious'' errors of the computation can occur only in an isolated component machine. This leads to the possibility of imposing selectively different reliability conditions on the component machines to achieve high over-all reliability of the realizations."
"A definite automaton is, roughly speaking, an automaton (sequential circuit) with the property that for some fixed integer k its action depends only on the last k inputs. The notion of a definite event introduced by Kleene, as well as the related concepts of definite automata and tables, are studied here in detail. Basic results relating to the minimum number of states required for synthesizing an automaton of a given degree of definiteness are proved. We give a characterization of all k-definite events definable by k+1 state automata. Various decision problems pertaining to definite automata are effectively solved. We also solve effectively the problem of synthesizing a minimal automaton defining a given definite event. The solutions of decision and synthesis problems given here are practical in the sense that if the problem is presented by n units of information, then the algorithm in question requires about n3 steps of a very elementary nature (rather than requiring about 2n steps as some algorithms for automata do, which puts them beyond the capacity of the largest computers even for relatively small values of n). A notion of equivalence of definite events is introduced and the uniqueness of the minimal automaton defining an event in an equivalence class is proved."
"Symmetric and partially symmetric functions are studied from an algebraic point of view. Tests are given for detecting these properties. A more general approach involving the concept of ρ-symmetric functions is given. A canonical form is derived for ρ-symmetric functions which leads to synthesis procedures that improve results of Shannon."
"This paper describes a type of parallel computer organization which can be regarded as lying at one extreme of a spectrum of possible degrees of parallelism. The organization is dominated by two characteristics, namely, one-bit storage per computational cell and single-level logic at each computational step. The organization is directed specifically toward spatial problems, but is demonstrated to be of a general-purpose nature. Mechanizations appropriate to this type of organization are described and some simple examples of spatial computing are presented."
"This paper presents an elementary computer memory organization capable of direct representation and manipulation of simple linear lists. A conventional random-access memory is used in conjunction with a group of address and word-length registers to store and manipulate single-link list words. Four typical list-processing macroinstructions, INSERT, DELETE, SEARCH, and EXECUTE, are illustrated and a sequence of microsteps for accomplishing each is given."
"The correct operation of addition in a digital computer is very important. In this paper, the authors exhibit a checking scheme called ``carry-dependent sum add'' which is based on the parity prediction method. This scheme assures single-fault detection without duplication of the carry circuit. An example of a binary adder and a decimal adder using this scheme are included."
"The purpose of the present study is to determine for the balanced-pair tunnel-diode circuit the minimum amount of control required when specified parameter imbalances are present in the system. The problem is formulated and the minimum control is determined numerically. These results are compared with an analytic formula for the minimum control which is presented here but is derived in another paper. The results obtained may be used to determine allowable tolerances on the circuit components for a given requirement on the maximum amplification or the total number of input and output connections."
"Number-representation systems employing negative bases, and identical in structure to the usual systems using positive bases, can represent both positive and negative numbers with equal facility. Arithmetic involving both positive and negative operands can also be performed in a negative-base system without special attention to the negative numbers. Determination of whether a number is positive or negative is relatively difficult, such determination depending upon knowledge of the position of the most significant digit. Truncation and roundoff errors in negative-base systems are greater relative to positive-base systems. An algorithm for representing numbers in a system with a negative integral base is given, and rules for common arithmetic operations are presented."
"A simple graphical analysis of the output vs input curves of a digital circuit will show whether the circuit can be used in arbitrarily long logical chains. The analysis uses upper and lower bounds for the output vs input curves, but these bounds can be interpreted as statistical confidence limits. Results of the analysis give necessary and sufficient conditions for various different types of gates to be compatible."
"Because of a multiplicity of conflicting requirements, sense amplifier design is probably the most difficult circuit problem in a large, high-speed digital computer memory. The requirements include absence of pattern sensitivity, controllable input impedance, a wide band pass, stable gain, high common mode rejection, the ability to handle bipolar signals, stable reference levels, a fast comparator, low threshold level, and, one hopes, low cost. This paper discusses a new circuit which fulfills these requirements with simplicity. Intended for large size (> 1000 words) random access core and thin-film memories, it is capable of handling, for example, a 50-mv ``1'' with approximately 50-nsec delay for transmission and comparison. Common mode signals of as high as 10 volts do not affect discriminator performance. Two key features of the circuit are the use of a dc-coupled, ``long-tail pair'' preamplifier and a pair of tunnel diodes as the discrimination elements. The dc-coupled differential preamplifier provides high common mode rejection, stable gain, is pattern insensitive, and has the ability to handle bipolar signals. The tunnel diode provides a superior discriminator, since it is fast, and has a low-level threshold which is controllable and stable with temperature variations. Thus, requirements on the magnitude and stability of the preamplifier gain are less severe. Design equations are derived and a complete dc worst-case analysis is performed. Variations in the circuit for several specific applications and experimentally determined performance data are described. The generalized problem of a tunnel-diode discriminator used with a preamplifier is treated in Appendix II."
"THE TUNNEL DIODE may be advantageously used as a threshold device in a magnetic memory sense amplifier. A signal voltage is induced in a small segment of a sense line. This induced voltage is propagated through the sense line and amplified. Finally, a current proportional to the signal voltage is compared to a threshold current to determine if the information is binary 1 or binary 0. This threshold has a nominal value and a range which depends on the tolerances of the tunnel diode parameters and the dc bias current. An analysis is made here to relate the bias current of a tunnel diode with the allowable range in the transconductance of the system that amplifies the signal voltage and switches the tunnel diode. Design equations and curves are presented relating the significant parameters."
"This paper discusses a class of pattern-recognition decision-making procedures which can be efficiently mechanized by a network of linear threshold devices. A theoretical discussion of four decision techniques (which are members of the above-mentione class) is augmented by an experimental program which investigates questions not amenable to analysis."
"A thermal plant usually consists of various pieces of heat transfer apparatus connected together by pipes. Simulation of the transport delay introduced by these pipes is frequently required. When the fluid velocity through the pipes is constant, the transfer function of the piping lag is easily derived. When the velocity of the fluid is a function of time, however, the transport delay also becomes a function of time, and it is not possible to find a transfer function in the usual way. This has been a source of difficulty to many investigators in the past. A solution to this problem is offered in the present paper. Basically, the approach used is to change the independent variable from time t to integrated flow q. The transport delay in measured in units of q and is shown to be a fixed number in these units. Thus, in terms of the new variable a transfer function can be rigorously defined to which the usual rational function expansions apply. The resulting approximation to the transfer function is then realized in a straightforward manner using standard analog computer elements. In the process of the realization the independent variable is changed back from q to t and thus the original variable-delay characteristic is restored."
"The linear-circuit performance equation for an important class of mode-switched operational amplifiers is derived to identify errors caused by finite feedback loop gains, switch resistance, and follower-amplifier source impedance. Errors due to capacitor dielectric absorption, switching spikes, dc leakage, and current limiting are discussed with reference to an electronically switched integrator (sample-hold or analog-memory circuit), and various design requirements are listed."
"It is shown that a simple circle diagram can be developed which will readily convert the dynamic amplitude ratio and phase shift characteristics of analog computing units (or similar electronic devices) into the corresponding rms-error functions. These rms-error functions which directly conform with the static dc accuracy specifications generally used, can be plotted in a new diagram giving the operational error characteristics of the units. By the use of this error diagram the signal frequency bands can be determined which will give satisfactory dynamic operations of the analog computing units within given error limits."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1963."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"This paper discusses methods of designing binary nonlinear feedback shift registers with cycles of specified length. First, the cycle structures of the simplest feedback functions, e.g., the circulating shift function, are considered. It is then shown how such structures may be modified, either by joining two suitable cycles into one or by the reverse process of splitting a cycle into two. By properly applying these two methods, namely cycle joining and cycle splitting, a wide range of binary shift registers having relatively simple feedback logic is easily designed."
"A simple general method for analyzing any given cascaded binary counter feedback configuration is presented. The count can be determined directly from the diagram without the need of writing equations of any form. The synthesis of cascaded binary counter feedback configurations is also discussed, and a table of feedback configurations with the minimum number of feedback connections is presented."
"A method is presented for weighting noncatastrophic failures in digital guidance systems in accordance with their effect on system accuracy. The method is discussed for one particular class of malfunctions, the transient, and the velocity and thrust termination errors of an inertially guided rocket are derived from several statistical models for transient failures assuming Poisson arrival and random duration of the failures. The accuracy degradation caused by transient failures in the information path of a guidance computer during boost appears to be considerable and, certainly, not negligible compared with instrument anomalies."
"The transmission of digital signals plays an important role in high speed computers, not only because the traveling time on the connecting wire is a significant portion of the total delay, but also because the wire is a distributed parameter coupling network which, as a transmission line, becomes an integral part of the computer circuitry and affects the over-all performance. The classical theories of transmission lines are applied to study the signal waveforms. In the case of low input impedance loads, the radial (or parallel) transmission line scheme should be used. A mathematic relationship can be derived among the ramp slope of signals, the input current to the loads, the length and the impedance of the lines, and the terminations. Then the reflections can be predicted. Guided by this, one chooses the optimum line impedance, the maximum length and the proper termination. For high input impedance loads, the tapped transmission line scheme can be used. The multiple junction reflections are expressed in terms of a series which can be worked out by hand or by machine computation. Likewise, there is a relationship among the impedance of the tapped lines and the feeding line, the spacing of loads and the terminations. There are rules to be followed to decide the transmission scheme."
"Discrete-track recording is a magnetic-recording method which employs a single-gap head and a discrete-track medium to increase the head-repositioning tolerance in saturation digital recording. A head with a conventional ring structure may be used. The recording medium consists of discrete magnetic tracks separated by nonmagnetic lands. Width of the magnetic tracks depends largely on the desired track density and maximum tolerable head-repositioning error. Test results indicate excellent track performance; consequently, satisfactory and reliable operation can be expected under actual machine conditions. Major advantages of discrete-track recording are economy, reliability, and increased head-repositioning tolerances."
"Widespread and persistent interest in the implementation of multilevel logic, conditional probability computers, learning machines, and brain models has created a need for an inexpensive analog or quasi-digital storage element. A number of possible approaches to this problem, ranging from the slow and reliable electromechanical systems to the many forms of charge and flux integration, are reviewed, and the suitability of each device for various fields of application is briefly discussed."
"A method is described for the establishment of a nonlinear differential equation which acts as a model for an actual physical system. It is assumed initially that the actual system contains only a single nonlinear element and that this element may be represented in the differential equation model by a single-valued nonlinear function of a single variable. The method is then extended to systems which contain several nonlinear elements. It is assumed that the system may be excited by a specified periodic input and that neither the input nor the output of the system is significantly corrupted by noise. An experimental criterion is given for the range of periodic inputs which permit satisfactory determination of the differential equation model."
"Methods have been described [1], [2] for constructing sequential machines directly from regular expressions. In the construction, every machine is assumed to have an input terminal, an output terminal and a special starting input terminal. The methods described [1], [2] involve a recursive procedure. For example, if machines ME and MF realize the regular expressions E and F respectively, then the machine realizing the concatenation, R = EF, is obtained [1], [2] by connecting the output of ME to the starting terminal of MF. In this paper it is shown that a submachine generated by the algorithm in the middle of the synthesis procedure cannot be replaced in general, by an equivalent machine. It is felt that the proofs of the original algorithms [1], [2] are rather brief and do not point out the difficulties which might arise if proper precautions are not taken. To remedy this situation, this paper examines the construction in detail. The notion of recurrent realization of a regular expression is introduced, and a theorem is proved that the construction is valid if the proper precautions are taken."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1963."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"In the realization of a logical function by a network of threshold components, one important engineering parameter is the tolerances which must be placed on the coefficients and threshold of the individual components. For threshold gates in which the logical \"zero\" corresponds to a constant signal of zero value and in which the coefficients are all positive or all negative, these tolerances are functions only of the gap boundaries of the map realized by the component."
"In the realization of a logical function by a network of threshold components, one important engineering parameter is the tolerances which must be placed on the coefficients and threshold of the individual components. For threshold gates in which the logical ``zero'' corresponds to a constant signal of zero value and in which the coefficients are all positive or all negative, these tolerances are functions only of the gap boundaries of the map realized by the component. A set of theorems is presented that define ``algebraic-like'' operations which provide a means for performing a sequence of symbolic operations on the desired logical function whereby the latter is transformed into a description of a network of threshold components which is its realization. Using these theorems a procedure is given for realizing an arbitrary logical function as a network of threshold components with specified sensitivity."
"One engineering parameter of importance in the realization of threshold gate networks is the tolerance which must be placed on the coefficients and threshold of the individual components. A previous paper gives a realization procedure which allows this tolerance to be controlled. The present paper gives an alternate realization procedure which also allows the tolerance to be controlled, but which is somewhat different in its application. The new procedure can be considered to be a generalization of an earlier procedure for the single-element realization problem. The function is first decomposed using a generalization of the function tree and then reconstructed using a generalization of the range theorem plus some additional simplification theorems."
"A bibliography containing 63 references to papers dealing with NOR and NAND gate design and application composes this paper. References are primarily taken from journals published in the United States. They are mainly presented as an aid to those interested in this area of computer circuitry rather than as a listing of credit to those who have done work in NOR and NAND logic and related fields. A one or two sentence summary is given for each reference."
"A synthesis procedure is described which generates all tributary networks (TRIBs) realizing a given truth function when no a priori assignment of the variables to input terminals is specified. If the truth function is not known to be realizable by a TRIB structure, the synthesis procedure provides a convenient test for TRIB realizability. If the variables are preassigned to input terminals, the synthesis and test are still applicable and correspondingly shorter. A major tool of the procedure is the matrix of binary representations of the minterms of the truth function-the so called ``minterm matrix.'' The procedure is illustrated by a numerical example."
"A kth-order finite automaton is an automaton whose next state is a function of its most recent k states as well as its present input. A procedure to test whether a given ordinary automaton is equivalent to some kth-order automaton is suggested."
"By way of worked examples in typical but somewhat idealized cases the effect on circuit speed of circuit interconnections is studied. The source, calculation and minimization of interconnection crosstalk is also discussed. It is shown that high-speed circuitry must be miniaturized and the implications are discussed."
"Equations are derived for the optimal design of a frequency divider circuit, and optimal design equations are presented for other typical pulse circuits: a timing circuit, a gating circuit and a clipping circuit. The Lagrange Multiplier Technique used in this paper has also been applied successfully for the optimal design of switching amplifiers [1]. For each of the circuits considered, the reliability and the performance of the circuit are enhanced by adjusting circuit elements so as to maximize or minimize a specified variable of the circuit when the circuit is in one of its several states; when in other of its states, however, the circuit is required to perform in accordance with specified relationships which act as constraints on the optimization procedure."
"The charge storage (and, consequently, the recovery time) problem of a p-n junction diode has been a most troublesome phenomenon in the application of junction diodes in switching circuits. If many diodes in a logic gate are switched simultaneously from conduction to cutoff, large sums of stored charge will be generated and will tend to reverse the state of the nonswitching diodes in the same circuit. Accordingly, a possible false logic response may result. Unfortunately, the diode models presently available are useless for analyzing such transients. For this reason, a new diode model has been devised. From a study of the physical process in a junction diode, a unique relationship can be established between the terminal electric properties and the charge storage in the base material, of the diode. The relationship can be shown in a simple flowgraph. From this flowgraph a lumped charge model of a p-n junction diode is proposed. Utilizing this model, one can simply and uniquely solve the transient problems encountered in diode switching circuits, while only two parameters, the saturation current Is, and the diode time constant Td, are required to evaluate the solution numerically."
"This paper describes a high-speed arithmetic unit which utilizes a ``sub-multiple algorithm'' in both multiplication and division. The organization and circuits, which make the algorithm practical and economical, are presented. High performance in the unit is achieved by the use of tunnel diodes in four key areas, namely, in a tunnel diode memory using nondestructive readout, in the memory selection drivers, in a tunnel diode adder and in a bidirectional shift register. The unit performs a fixed point binary multiplication and division of two 44-bit operands in 2.75 μsec and 12 μsec, respectively. An experimental arithmetic unit has been built and operated in conjunction with a computer.1 Propagation delays of less than 2.2 nanoseconds were achieved between logic stages of a 48-bit binary full adder. Some results of the evaluation tests are also discussed."
"Many medium-scale electronic computers currently are being designed to cater to scientific and business data-processing problems. Efficiency of floating point computation for scientific problems usually favors a fixed-word format and a word-oriented memory, so that a complete floating-point operand may be read out of or stored in memory in parallel. The logical processing of strings of characters not starting or ending on a word boundary, or the arithmetic processing of variable field-length fixed-point operands, are penalized. The penalty is the result of time-consuming combinations of masking and/or shifting which must be programmed before or after processing and before results can be stored. The purpose of this report is to describe several representative memory-access systems that avoid the housekeeping necessary for processing variable-length operands in a fixed word-length machine and to evaluate their relative efficiencies."
"A dynamic large signal model for a thin film inductor consisting of two orthogonal windings wound around a thin single-domain film is developed. Based on Gilbert's modification of the Landau-Lifshitz equation describing the rotational behavior of the magnetization of the film, this model is valid for both large and small signals and for frequencies up to several hundred megacycles. As a result of the gyroscopic nature of mangetic behavior, the model of necessity contains as a part of its description a nonlinear second order differential equation in time. Until the external circuits connected to the inductor are specified, one cannot explicitly relate magnetic behavior and terminal voltages and currents. Instead one must seek a simultaneous solution of the differential equations describing the interconnected system. The utility of this model for analytically describing the behavior of thin film parametric devices such as parametrons, parametric amplifiers, balanced modulators, and flip-flops is mentioned but not discussed in detail."
"This paper deals with the problem of reading numerical characters having strong variations in form, size and position. The method introduced here can describe the characters in invariant terms, with considerations of topological and morphological type. Therefore, it is called ``morphotopological method for character recognition'' and was applied to the construction of a very high performance reading machine."
"When diode selection circuits are fed with signals that vary linearly with an input variable, they produce as output a convex or concave function consisting of one linear section per diode. In the present circuits, by combining each diode with a suitable series ``interpolating'' resistor, and feeding the output connection with constant current, it is possible to produce 2n-1 linear sections with n diodes. The use of voltage dependent interpolating resistors replaces the linear sections by nonlinear curves making possible the generation of smooth nonlinear functions. The function generator is stable as compared with similar nonlinear circuits because its transfer characteristic is independent of the nonlinearity of the resistors in a first approximation. Accuracies of the order 0.5 per cent of full scale output are readily obtainable even in the simplest circuit configurations. 1° phase shift occurs at frequencies of the order of 10 kc for nonlinear interpolation and up to several hundred kc for linear interpolation. The representative example of a squarer is described in detail; an error analysis is given and it is shown how the circuit can be compensated for a constant linear load."
"The solution of the equations which describe a linear system and its variable parameters is usually difficult enough to warrant the use of a computer. This paper discusses and illustrates the use of analog computers in obtaining deterministic and stochastic responses of single or multiple input-output, time-variable systems. Stochastic response is emphasized with attention focused on the output or response, auto and cross-correlations. The response correlation matrix Rzz(t1,t2) which is evaluated from the adjoint system is also considered in terms of the general problem of random-initial values and random-forcing functions."
"The material presented here allows a fairly thorough analysis of deterministic errors in continuous systems. The methods outlined in other papers using sampled-data techniques permit the extension of this theory to include discrete systems such as DAA's and Digital Computers when used for solving differential equations using operational techniques."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1963."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"RECENT PROGRESS in computer systems as measured against either research and development investment or evolving user requirements is disappointing. The past decade of technology has not yielded an advance in any way comparable in impact to the core-transistor technique. Concurrently, researchers in numerous disciplines have \"discovered\" the computer, only to have their initial enthusiasm for the principle fade as the difficulties of fruitful application to their work become manifest."
"The ZAM-41 is a medium-sized, high-speed, parallel, binary computer with the word length of 24 bits and the internal storage capacity from 8192 to 32,768 words. It is destined mainly for data processing, but it may also be used for scientific computations and for real-time control. The full effect of multiprogramming has been obtained on the above computer by means of a small amount of hardware and an appropriate supervisor program. The problem of mutual interference of concurrently performed programs has been particularly taken into account."
"The ZAM-41 is a medium-sized, high-speed, parallel, binary computer with the word length of 24 bits and the internal storage capacity from 8192 to 32,768 words. It is destined mainly for data processing, but it may also be used for scientific computations and for real-time control. The full effect of multiprogramming has been obtained on the above computer by means of a small amount of hardware and an appropriate supervisor program. The problem of mutual interference of concurrently performed programs has been particularly taken into account."
"The TR4 is a high-speed computer, constructed with modern techniques, and suitable for commercial as well as for technical and scientific applications. The central processing unit can communicate directly, without additional intervening elements, with the usual input and output devices. The basic design of software and hardware allows the user to benefit from effective programming techniques and parallel processing without extra programming burdens. This last objective is fulfilled by assigning frequently recurring software tasks to the control of the flexible central processor, while other software tasks are performed via a powerful wired in readonly memory. Übersicht-Die TR4 ist eine in neuzeitlicher Technik gebaute schnelle Rechenanlage, die sich in gleicher Weise für kommerzielle wie für technisch-wissenschaftliche Anwendungen eignet. Der zentrale Rechner kann ohne zusätzliche Zwischenglieder unmittelbar mit den üblichen Ein- und Ausgabegeräte verkehren. Der Grundbestand an software und hardware ist so realisiert, daß sich der Benutzer ohne zusätzliche Belastung einer effektiven Programmierungstechnik sowie der Parallelarbeit bedienen kann. Die Erfüllung dieser letzen Forderung wurde gelöst indem ein Teil der sehr oft von der software übernommenen Aufgaben unschwer der flexiblen zentralen Steuerung übertragen wird; ein weiterer Teil wird durch ein wirkungsvolles, im Festspeicher verdrahtetes Programm realisiert."
"The Sabrac Computer is a 100-kc serial transistorized device designed, constructed and now operating in the laboratories of the Scientific Department of the Israel Ministry of Defence. Main storage is on a 5000-word magnetic drum, but a 224-word serial, ferrite core-store serves as an immediate access operating store. Transfers between the high-speed store and the drum, as well as the comprehensive input/output orders, may operate autonomously (time-shared). This, and the many other \"Second Generation\" features such as a \"Second Modifier,\" an \"Extract\" order, fast multiplication, division and shift and a flexible order code with a total of some 200 separate orders, all help to speed operation. Thus, the effective operational speed of Sabrac is at least an order of magnitude greater than that of similar first generation devices."
"This paper gives a brief review of the design of the machine GIER (42-bit words, 1-k core store, 12-k drum store, 50-microsecond fixed point, 100-microsecond floating, add time) and its programming systems. The principal subjects are: The order structure, the operating system, the ALGOL 60 system, an evaluation of the order structure, the hardware organization, and the latest hardware extensions, including a hybrid computer system."
"The D21 data processing system design uses simple system structure and fast circuits plus flexible memory and is thus adapted to the use of advanced software and easy application to diverse fields. A survey is given of design objectives, background, and the hardware-software system."
"The system design of a general-purpose digital computer, CIRRUS, is described. An extensive order code with reasonable order execution times has been achieved at relatively low cost. Comprehensive multiprogram operation is provided. These facilities have been produced largely with microprogramming. The basic hardware is comprised of general purpose registers, a half-word arithmetic unit and two stores, all of which may be inter-connected with considerable flexibility. A substantial contribution to economy has been made by the use of a prewired ``read-only'' store of large capacity for encoding microprograms."
"A great deal of attention is currently being focused on the organization and utilization of parallel and multicomputer networks. The GUS computer designed and built at the Argonne National Laboratory is currently being used to explore the problems of multicomputer systems. Many features of the GUS design are of particular applicability to the problems of the Laboratory; however, there are problems of utilization of interest to the whole industry. The system described here is being used to study man-machine interaction problems as well as the machine-machine interrelation. Although the GUS computer was designed as an exploratory tool and is being used in that fashion, it does carry an appreciable portion of the service load of the Laboratory. Its input-output units are, therefore, compatible with the Laboratory's IBM 704 and CDC 3600 systems."
"Telescopes in space will soon permit astronomers to observe the heavens in more detail than ever before. The Orbiting Astronomical Observatory (OAO) is a space vehicle designed to place these telescopes in orbit beyond the earth's atmosphere and to telemeter the collected data back to earth. To aid the orbiting observatory in the fulfillment of its scientific mission, a low-power, long-life, high-density command and memory system has been designed and is currently undergoing qualification testing. The digital command storage and processing element will permit reprogramming of spacecraft orientation and astronomical experiments on each orbit, even when the satellite is not in contact with the ground, while the core memory element will permit storage of experiment data for subsequent transmission to the ground. In the following paper, the functional design of the satellite command and memory system is discussed in detail. In addition, the power conservation methods, reliability design techniques and environmental performance considerations which influenced the design of this equipment are reviewed."
"Some logical aspects of a digital computer for a space vehicle are described, and the evolution of its logical design is traced. The intended application and the characteristics of the computer's ancestry form a framework for the design, which is filled in by accumulation of the many decisions made by its designers. This paper deals with the choice of word length, number system, instruction set, memory addressing, and problems of multiple precision arithmetic. The computer is a parallel, single address machine with more than 10,000 words of 16 bits. Such a short word length yields advantages of efficient storage and speed, but at a cost of logical complexity in connection with addressing, instruction selection, and multiple-precison arithmetic."
"In this paper the system design of a 250 Mc tunnel-diode computer is presented. To resolve the disparity between the obtainable arithmetic and main memory speeds, a sophisticated advanced control is used. The advanced control fetches instructions and operands from the main memory before they are actually needed by the arithmetic unit. These instructions and operands are stored in two small, high-speed tunnel-diode memories which are called queues. A third queue, the Storage Access Queue, is used for saving a storage access request if it cannot be serviced immediately. Hence, advanced control is split into four parts, the Instruction, Operand, Store and Arithmetic Controls, which operate independently (except for appropriate interlocks) of one another. In the design of any computing system which has advanced control, care must be taken to prevent the old value of a memory location from being used instead of a recently computed value. The proposed system insures that the latter is always used and in this respect the system appears as a conventional computer to the user. However, the system is not entirely conventional in its appearance; the use of a stack in place of the accumulator in the arithmetic unit is proposed. The arithmetic, modifier and input-output units are all designed to operate independently of one another and execute simple algorithms at high speeds. This permits the system to be built with an estimated 12,000 tunnel diodes and four 8000 word sections of memory. The system is expected to operate at very high speeds."
"A general purpose list processor organized machine is postulated that: 1) carries out directly the basic processes involved in list processing, 2) includes arithmetic and other features needed for a general purpose machine and 3) adapts to operation in a wide variety of programming languages. The power of the machine is achieved by using a small fast scratch pad memory for manipulating address fields and by including an automatic symbol table in the form of a search memory. Two basic list orders, a transmit order and a structure tracing order, determine the fundamental organization of the machine and are summarized."
"A computing technique is described which employs several computing elements to solve algebraic, transcendental and integro-differential equations operational-digital. Information between the different computing elements is carried in the form of pulse-width signals. Each computing elements employs only digital circuits, but in an analog fashion. The proposed hybrid technique overcomes the accuracy limitations of the conventional analog technique and the analog-digital interface problems of the various digital techniques, while it retains many of the advantages of both the analog and the digital technique. In general, hybrid operational computing elements are insensitive to environmental, component tolerances and power supply changes, have small size, small weight and minimum power consumption (only one supply voltage required) and can be instrumented with 100 per cent integrated circuits. Although the proposed hybrid technique has no basic accuracy limitation it will operate most economically with accuracies below one part in 105. Similarly, it is not practical to operate with repetition frequencies in excess of 10 kc. Maximum accuracy can be had only at very low repetition rates, while maximum speed can be had only at very low accuracy, since the product of repetition rate and accuracy is a constant for a certain quality of digital circuits. Finally, the inherent storage capability and the ease with which pulse-width signals can be switched facilitates sequential operation of hybrid operational computing elements. Therefore, cost, size and weight can be drastically reduced if bandwidth can be sacrificed."
"The feasibility of a large-scale microprogrammed computer and some variations and extensions of Wilkes' scheme are examined. A general scheme is discussed to improve flexibility and reduce the number of micro-orders through massive use of the conditions for the next micro-order. A variable-cycle timing system that permits the speed of a synchronized computer to approach that of an asynchronous one is presented. Problems and solutions of input-output operations including time sharing and multiprogramming, and some technical problems, are discussed in detail. A particular scheme of the arithmetic unit included in a micro-programmed control unit is presented."
"Pragmatic problem studies predict gains in computation speeds in a variety of computational tasks when executed on appropriate problem-oriented configurations of the variable structure computer. The economic feasibility of the system is based on utilization of essentially the same hardware in a variety of special purpose structures. This capability is achieved by programmed or physical restructuring of a part of the hardware. Existence of important classes of problems which the variable structure computer system promises to render practically computable, as well as use of the system for experiments in computer organization and for evaluation of new circuits and devices warrant construction of a variable structure computer. This paper describes the organization, programming, and hardware of a variable structure computer system presently under construction at UCLA."
"The problem of optimal assignment of subcomputations of a computational task to autonomous computing structures of a variable structure computing system is investigated. In particular, it is desired to determine which computing structures should be constructed from the hardware inventory of the variable structure computing system and which subcomputations should be executed on which computing structures, and in what sequence, so as to minimize the total cost of computation (cost of restructuring of the system and the cost of the actual execution time). A successive approximation assigmnent procedure is formulated. The procedure requires representation of the computational task by a directed graph and an estimate of the number of traversals of each computational loop, as well as the branching probabilities of each conditional branching operation. Computer programs for automatic execution of the assignment procedure have been written. A numerical experiment on a problem from the area of the x-ray diffraction analysis of crystal structures indicates that the procedure is computationally practical, and also demonstrates that execution of the problem in a variable structure system leads to a considerable gain over a system of three modern high-speed general purpose computers."
"Several papers have been written and published on various aspects of the SOLOMON computer. This paper describes the final design of the computer, from a total system viewpoint. The paper consists of three major portions: a brief description of the system organization, a description of the functional capabilities of the computer, i.e., the instruction set, and a description of the physical system, i.e., type of circuitry and packaging techniques utilized."
"A multilayer iterative circuit computer (I.C.C.) is described, which is capable of dealing with problems involving spatial relationships between the variables, in addition to the inherent multiprogramming capabilities of this type of machine organization. Some of the novel features presented are: 1) A path-building method which retains the short-time access characteristic of the common bus system, while still permitting the simultaneous operation of several paths in the network without mutual interference. Furthermore, the connecting method allows communication between the modules in a one-to-one, one-to-many or many-to-many way. 2) A specialization in the functions of the individual layers, separating the flow of control signals from the flow of information. This step-by-step treatment of the instructions makes it possible to preinterpret them before the actual execution, thus permitting the inclusion of instructions acting from many-to-many operands. 3) Three-phase operation, with each phase active simultaneously in each layer, and operating on different instructions. Due to the overlapping of the phases in time, the total effective time per instructions remains the same. Once an instruction has been executed, the partially processed results are transferred to the next layer, and the now vacant layer starts the processing of the next instruction. The notable properties of the iterative structure are thus augmented by the inclusion of these features, resulting in a machine with iterative computational structure that includes a form of control or interpretation unit."
"This report describes the system design of an all-digital computer for visual recognition. One processor, the Pattern Articulation Unit (PAU), has been singled out for detailed discussion. Other units, in particular the Arithmetic Unit and the Taxicrinic Unit, are treated in reports listed in the bibliography. The PAU has been shown to be a processor of fundamentally new design-its logical organization has no analog in the central processing unit of existing computers. The PAU is the first modular parallel processor which because of its digital organization is capable of more reliable visual identification than part analog/part digital preprocessors of much less generality and potential virtuosity; is faster than any presently suggested alternative realizable today at comparable cost; and can serve as a prototype to a new generation of parallel computers that will capitalize upon thin film and integrated semiconductor circuitry of the immediate future."
"The importance of solving the measurement problem in character recognition systems before or collaterally with the decision problem is stressed. Measurements themselves are decision processes. In the system discussed here the measurements constitute decisions on the probable presence and most likely orientation of the edges of the character strokes in each elementary scanning area. This permits an effective and economical sequential feature detection in which the statistical variations due to printing and scanning variations are taken into account. The article concludes with a discussion of the role of the computer in recognition-logic design."
"The perceptual superiority of the human visual system over automata is outlined comparing the properties of both systems. The most effective property with regard to pattern recognition is the internal adaptability and the ability of abstracting. Both properties are well performed by human beings. A mechanical perceptor for complex pattern recognition must also have these capabilities. The use of adaptation for pattern recognition is discussed. The realization of these properties by machines is difficult, especially the development of an adequate feature generator which performs the internal adaptability and thus solves the problem of identification-criteria invariance of patterns. This is assumed to be the main task in pattern recognition research. External teaching processes may be accomplished by adaptive categorizers. The existing classification methods are outlined and discussed with regard to adaptive systems. Adaptive categorizers of a learning matrix type and a perceptron type are compared as to structure, linear classification performance, and training routine. It is assumed, however, that the somewhat passive external adaptation of categorizers must be supplemented by a more active adaptation by the system itself."
"This paper describes the method and the system investigated to solve the problem encountered in the automatic recognition of speech sound. From research in the automatic analyzer of speech sound, a monosyllable recognition system was constructed in which the phoneme is used as the basic recognition unit. Recently this system has been developed to accept the conversational speech sound with unlimited vocabulary. The mechanical recognition of conversational speech sound requires two basic operations. One is the segmentation of the continuous speech sound into several discrete intervals (or segments), each of which may be thought to correspond to a phoneme, and the other is the pattern recognition of such segments. For segmentation, by defining two criteria, ``stability'' and ``distance,'' the properties of the time pattern obtained by the analysis of input speech sound may be examined. The principle of the recognition is based on the mechanism of the articulation in our speech organ. Corresponding to this, the machine has the functions called phoneme classification, vowel analysis and consonant analysis. A conversational speech recognition system with the phonetic contextual approach is also applied to the vowel recognition where the time pattern of input speech is matched with the stored standard patterns in which the phonetic contextual effects are taken into consideration. The time pattern which has great variety may be effectively expressed by the new representation of ``sequential pattern'' and ``weighting pattern.''"
"The paper gives a survey of the learning circuits which became known as learning matrices and some of their possible technological applications. The first section describes the principle of learning matrices. So-called conditioned connections between the characteristics of an object and the meaning of an object are formed in the learning phase. During the operation of connecting the characteristics of an object with its meaning (EB operation of the knowing phase) upon presenting the object characteristics, the associated most similar meaning is realized in the form of a signal by maximum likelihood decoding. Conversely, in operation from the meaning of an object to its characteristics (BE operation) the associated object characteristics are obtained as signals by parallel reading upon application of an object meaning. According to the characteristic signals processed (binary or analog signals) discrimination must be made between binary and nonbinary learning matrices. In the case of the binary learning matrix the conditioned connections are a statistical measure for the frequency of the coordination of object characteristics and object meaning, in the case of the nonbinary learning matrix they are a measure for an analog value proportional to a characteristic. Both types of matrices allow for the characteristic sets applied during EB operation to be unsystematically disturbed within limits. Moreover, the nonbinary learning matrix is invariant to systematic deviations between presented and learned characteristic sets (invariance to affine transformation, translation and rotated skewness)."
"To translate descriptors into memory locations a memory organization scheme called the balanced tree is introduced, The descriptors that describe the information to be stored or retrieved constitute quasi-inputs to the tree while the outputs are lists on which the information identified by the descriptors is stored. The balanced tree thus provides a stratagem to effect a fast information retrieval with a limited amount of serialized scanning. The algorithms for storing in and retrieving from the balanced tree are outlined. While in a randomly growing tree, the shape of the tree depends on the order of the input, the balanced tree is independent of this order. The expected number of rearrangement steps to keep the tree balanced was derived from combinatorial considerations. Numerical results were obtained by machine computations and are presented in this paper."
"``List structure'' arrangements of information are increasingly being used in digital data-processing applications. A ``push-down'' list is one manipulated in a last-in, first-out manner. The implementation of such a list structure is possible in a variety of ways. This paper describes one such method which uses a delay line as a storage device."
"The evolution of a simple mathematical model for pulse propagation in memory arrays and its implementation by computer programs is described. The development of the model is based initially on the properties of a simplified two-dimensional memory array using common bit-sense lines. The model is then generalized to include separate bit and sense lines. Finally, applications to three-dimensional arrays are considered. It is shown that for a wide variety of calculations nonlinear bit-storage devices such as ferrite cores, tunnel diodes, etc., can be replaced by linear equivalent circuits. With the aid of these equivalent circuits the array is characterized in the language of linear transmission-line theory. Two computer programs are described which solve the resulting differential equations. Applications of these computer programs to the analysis of sense-signal propagation, bit-sense noise, signal transfer between crossed wires, and propagation of pulses along bit lines are discussed. The mathematical theory is derived explicitly for ferrite-core memories but care is taken to point out the changes required to extend the model to other technologies. These changes can be effected in the supporting computer programs by a simple interchange of subroutines which characterize the properties of bit-storage devices."
"This paper describes an approach to the maintenance problem of central processors which minimizes the human role. This approach consists of a combination of 1) a programming system which computes the diagnostic program from the design-automation tape, and 2) a novel organization of a part of the controls of an experimental computer. Problems which require solution are listed and reasons are given as to why they were solved by the methods described. An account of the programming system and hardware as implemented is given, and improvements in them are considered in the light of difficulties encountered."
"A particular set of unnormalized arithmetic operations termed ``basic'' are described, in the context of the University of Chicago Maniac III Computer. Each basic operation involves three operand words and generates two result words, all in unnormalized floating point format. The use of these operations in the implementation of multi-precision arithmetic is explained; in particular, it is demonstrated that multiprecision division can be effected in a nontentative manner with their aid."
"A system observed from the outside as a black box displays certain activity which can be described (and stored) as variations of the input and output variables of the system during its observation. Such information stored for adequately large intervals of time represents samples of activity ready for statistical analysis. Any time-invariant obtained as a result of this investigation represents an element of behavior of the system which can be explained by the existence of corresponding elements of the internal structure of the black box. The resulting abstract model of the internal structure is algorithmic when the elements of behavior take on the form of a law predicting the future activity from some stored information about the past activity. Not all systems are found to be algorithmic. The activity of any part of an electronic digital system with a central clocking can be defined by Boolean variables arranged in suitable timetables. Any time-invariant Boolean equation holding between these variables represents an element of the system's behavior but does not necessarily contain any algorithmic element of the system. In this paper we show how to make tests of the activity proving the existence of algorithmic elements, their synthesis and the design of corresponding block diagrams of the system."
"Methods are developed to illustrate whether or not it is possible to determine the final state of a finite automaton when 1) the initial state of the automaton is unknown and the input sequence and its corresponding output sequence are given and 2) both the initial state and the input sequence are unknown and only the output sequence is given."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"A system for the automatic acquisition and computation of gravity data at sea has been tested and is now operational aboard the Research Vessel CHAIN of the Wood's Hole Oceanographic Institution. This is the first recorded instance of on-line acquisition and processing of gravity data by the use of a digital computing system. Sampling and computation are performed in a one minute computation cycle making knowledge of gravity values, gravity anomalies and dead-reckoning position available in real-time. The system consists of a LaCoste-Romberg Sea Gravity Meter, data conversion units for computer compatibility with the gravity meter, ship's gyrocompass and ship's speed log, an IBM 1710 Mod 1 Control System (the combination of a 1620 Computer and a 1711 Data Converter for analog to digital conversion), and typewriter and paper tape input-output units."
"This paper contains the results of measurements made upon several magnetic tapes used in the direct recording of seismic data. The parameters measured included dynamic range, distortion, noise and frequency response. All measurements were made under similar conditions so that direct comparisons would be meaningful. Normalization procedures were carried out in such a way that the data can be correlated to other recording equipment."
"The propagation of radio waves through the lithosphere between buried transmitting and receiving sites is a communication technique of great interest at the moment due to the physical hardness or invulnerability of such a communication system to nuclear blasts. Theoretical studies and laboratory experiments were performed to investigate the propagation of electromagnetic waves in a low-conductivity lithospheric duct (granitic basement layer). The real earth situation was approximated by a low conductivity layer with uniform properties located between two regions of high conductivity (the upper crust of the earth and the earth's mantle). Models were also used to investigate the effects of geological discontinuities and inhomogeneities on the electric field strength. Different models were constructed using scaling factors of the order of 105. Aluminum plates were used in the first model to represent the mantle and the upper crust. The low conductivity layer was modeled by a salt water solution. In a second model the upper crust was modeled by a carbon sheet instead of an aluminum sheet. The conductivity of the carbon sheet accurately modeled the value of conductivity assumed for the upper crust of the earth. Excellent agreement was obtained between theoretical and experimental results for CW propagation. This agreement demonstrates the validity of the laboratory modeling techniques and lends confidence to the experimental results obtained for the effects of inhomogeneities in the duct."
"Electrical signals generated in the earth as a result of seismic energy were investigated as a possible means for detecting low-frequency seismic events. It was found that the conversion of seismic to electrical signals was highly variable with different detection locations. For detection of small seismic events, the method could not be recommended over the use of conventional inertial seismometers because of its low conversion efficiency. For strong motion measurements, however, the method should be given consideration if a suitable geological environment is found and a calibration means is used. Signals of the \"E\" type, i.e., those produced by electrofiltration potentials, were found to be predominant in these experiments."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The vidicon is an electronic transducer that converts electromagnetic radiation of the visible and near-visible range into electrical signals. These video signals can then be transmitted over wire or carrier-type circuits and the video information viewed on television or similar type displays."
"The STEP System (Sequential Television Equipment Programmer) is a low-cost TV Automation system designed to automate the \"panic period\" switching during breaks. The STEP memory, a flexible pinboard memory with pre-programming capabilities, is described. Overall system requirements, system organization, system operation, installation and maintenance are discussed. Operating experience with the system during the past year at WTVR, Richmond, Virginia, is described."
"Modern broadcasters are calling for transistorized amplifiers in their studio installations. The use of transistors has resulted in small, compact amplifier designs, with the added features of lower power consumption, less heating, and greater reliability than with tube-type equipment. Many studio amplifiers have been transistorized. The exception has been the popular automatic Gain Control amplifier. Ever since the introduction of the Unilevel in 1954, the studio compression amplifier has found many applications in radio and television broadcast applications. It has proven to be highly useful in intercom service, as well as its major function of providing automatic control of program channel levels."
"The many factors which have brought color television to its present state of enthusiastic acceptance in the United States are reviewed. A detailed description of a recently developed color-television camera is presented. This camera, operating within the already established United States color television standards, achieves improved performance, higher stability, and ease of operation."
"Results are reported of horizontally polarized signal strength méasurements at frequencies of 82, 210, 633, 1280, and 2950 mcps. The measurements were height-gain runs made behind a grove of liveoak and hackberry trees in full leaf. The site was selected so that propagation took place over approximately the same path near the receiver terminal at all frequencies. Measurements were repeated at several distances behind the grove of trees. Theoretical analyses are reported for several assumed cases for comparison with the field measured data. Exceptionally good agreement was found in many cases."
"The new television broadcasting center for the Los Angeles area incorporates many new engineering developments to improve technical quality, increase reliability and simplify operation. Equipment includes a digital computer, for automatic control of switching of audio and video program material, and highly stable vidicon film cameras which require a minimum of operating adjustment. The facilities employ many innovations in plant layout, system design and installation practices. The video and audio facilities are described and the philosophy which led to the designs is set forth, with emphasis on the methods and features which are new."
"Closed circuit television operations have been able to make use of the vidicon camera to advantage and its use is suggested for particular broadcast applications. Where high illumination and flat lighting is available, the vidicon is preferable to the image orthicon as a pickup device because of its greater economy, stability, ruggedness, simplicity of circuitry and small size, and excellent picture quality."
"This paper introduces a K GRATICULE, and its associated Sin2 Pulse-Window signal, for routine tests of TV facilities. It does not go into the theoretical aspects of waveform measurements -these have been amply described by the pioneers in this field (see Reference 1 through 3)."
"A modern broadcast TV Camera adaptable for use with either 3-inch or 4 1/2-inch image orthicon tubes is described. Circuit and mechanical innovations are discussed which result in improved stability and reliability. Simplified operation and maintenance of the camera are emphasized."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The effects of antenna VSWR on stereo left-right channel separation of a FM broadcasting station were investigated. The results of these tests were significant and indicate that the transmitting antenna VSWR for ±200 KC must be low. They also indicate that if the rest of the system from studio to the output of the stereo receiver is fixed, a change in the transmitting antenna VSWR will affect the stereo separation."
"In 1959 the Television Allocations Study Organization, composed of engineers from government and industry, reported extensively on the state of the art as applied to the efficient allocation of VHF and UHF television channels.1 Useful information was developed in this study on the performance of terminal equipment utilized and proposed for TV broadcasting, on the operation of complete systems, and on effective methods for obtaining additional information needed for the expanding TV industry. Among TASO recommendations for future investigations was the question of UHF-TV coverage over large metropolitan areas, especially in densely populated sections of these areas."
"Equipment Construction practices developed in recent years by the CBS Television Network have contributed to improving the reliability of audio-video systems, and to reducing installation and maintenance costs. The procedures developed to obtain this result, as well as the materials and techniques used, are described. Although the subject matter is of specific interest to broadcasters, much of it applies to the electronics industry in general."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"These Proceedings contain most of the papers which are to bo prorented on October 28 and 29, 1963, in Chicago, IL, USA at the Second Symposium on Adaptive Processes, sponsored by the Dircrete System Theory Committee of the Institute of Electrical and Eleetronics Engineers (IEEE) as part of the program of the 1963 National Electronics Conference."
"Many problems of current interest (e. g. in space engineering) are formulated as parameter estimation in a prescribed nonlinear regression model when the number of observations is large. It is important that a proposed method of estimation be such that (i) the computations can be performed quickly in a recursive fashion as more data becomes available, and (ii) that the successive estimates possess desirable asymptotic statistical properties. It is the purpose of this paper to present such a procedure for scalar observations and a single unknown parameter. The vector multi-parameter case is of greater interest, but a good deal of insight into these more general problems is gained from our present considerations. They appear to have some independent interest in the field of mathematical statistics."
"An observation on a known and partially unknown signal environment is formulated mathematically. The detailed structure of an observing system capable of recognizing \"new\" and \"old\" signals is obtained along with mathematical expressions for predicting system performance. The theory is applied to several well-known problems in signal recognition. The results of an experimental study concerned with the asymptotic performance measures are presented. The logical design of a feasibility model based on the theory is discussed."
"In this paper we introduce a class of information sources T = SA,I = 1,2, .....m, such that each source in this class approximates, in a defined sense, a given source S. For this purpose we use the set of product approximations for a distribution introduced by Lewis (1959). Thus, for any source SA,I, the nth order distribution is a product of some lower order distributions corresponding to the source S and further the product is an extension of the lower order distributions. It is then shown that each source SA,I is \"compatible\" with the source S, where the nation of \"compatibility\" roughly means that each source SA,I can use a code designed for the source S equally effectively as regards the probability of incorrectly receiving a given sequence and still maintain an effective information rate which can be made arbitrarily close to the rate corresponding to the source SA,I by increasing the length of the sequences. A precise definition of \"compatibility\" and the corresponding necessary and sufficient conditions have been stated previously."
"Despite the extensive literature on adaptive systems, relatively little progress has been made so far toward the development of a general theory of adaptation. Among the more promising and mathematically concrete approaches to the design of adaptive systems are the dynamic programming formulation due to Bellman and Kalaba, the empirical Bayes and stochastic approximation methods developed by Robbins, and the learning algorithms used in pattern recognition. The advantages and shortcomings of these approaches are pointed out and alternative points of view are briefly analyzed."
"1. There is now a wealth of literature on the problem of optimal control of linear systems under a variety of conditions, constraints, and performance indexes. Whatever the criterion or performance index, however, the optimal control law invariably depends on the physical and statistical parameters of the system. These parameters are at best only partially known to the controller, so the problem of statistical estimation of the parameters, consistent with the over-all performance index, is a natural and significant problem for study. 2. Since modern control theory provides the motivation for this paper, let us quickly review some of its aspects for the unversed reader."
"The Neyman-Pearson detector and other decision-theoretic detectors are designed for a particular distribution function. This distribution function can be indexed by a finite, or at most a countable number of real parameters. Thus, these detectors may be classified as parametric detection systems. In the present work a nonparametric detection scheme is discussed. This detector is designed for a wide class of distribution functions which can not be indexed by a finite, or countable number of real parameters. The operation of the nonparametric detector depends on the assumption that a control-sample of noise is available. The presence of the signal is determined by comparing the unknown waveform with the control-sample. If attention is restricted to the class of nonparametric tests known as rank tests, it is possible to design an optimum nonparametric detector, in the sense that it is based on the optimum rank test. In general, the structure of the optimum nonparametric detector is quite complicated. However, in the practically important case of threshold detection, the locally optimum nonparametric detector assumes a particularly simple form. The concept of asymptotic relative efficiency is used to compare the locally optimum nonparametric detector with the Neyman-Pearson detector. It is shown that, on the basis of this comparison, the locally optimum nonparametric detector is asymptotically as efficient as the Neyman-Pearson detector. A number of applications to specific detection problems is considered. In the problem of detecting a constant signal in additive noise, it is shown that the locally optimum non-parametric detector is less sensitive to the functional form of the noise distribution than is the Neyman-Pearson detector."
"This paper considers a two-input detection problem which is frequently encountered - that of deciding if a random signal is common to two channels each containing independent noise processes with identical statistical properties. It has been demonstrated that both the Neyman-Pearson and the correlation detectors can be made adaptive to processes with finite fourth moments that are wide-sense stationary during any test interval. The adaptive Neyman - Pearson detector is asymptotically one half as efficient as the original on the assumption of stationary gaussian noise processes. The adaptive correlation detector is asymptotically as efficient as the original and is essentially equivalent to the adaptive Neyman-Pearson detector. The PCC can be made adaptive with respect to the class of processes with quasi-stationary medians. This adaptive PeC is at least as efficient as the original and under certain conditions is more efficient. In addition, this detector performs well in the presence of impulse noise. These results together with its simplicity indicate that the adaptive PCC is a useful device for the two-input detection problem."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new load flow program has been developed which employs the node-impedance matrix of a system. A special input routine was developed that allows the line data to be in any order desired. The program has the capacity to control generator voltages within a specified var (reactive volt-ampere) range, and also to incorporate off-nominal autotransformers. In every system studied using this program, the time for solution was less than that required by the usual nodal branch admittance iterative method."
"This paper describes the electrical system designed for the Nuclear Power Demonstration (NPD) Generating Station and the statistical approach used to make decisions as the design progressed. NPD is a 22-mw (megawatt) nulcear power station designed by Canadian General Electric Company in co-operation with Atomic Energy of Canada, Ltd., and The Hydro Electric Power Commission of Ontario (HEPC). The reactor is heavy-water-moderated and heavy-water-cooled and uses natural uranium as the fuel. The plant is located on the Ottawa River about 1 mile downstream from the Ontario Hydro's Des Joachims generating station. An electrical system was designed for NPD which is quite similar to that which would be found in a conventional generating station of the same rating. However, because of the critical nature of some of the processes during all phases of operation including shutdown, a great deal of emphasis was placed on reliability. Throughout the design, circuit configuration and equipment selection stressed reliability as well as cost."
"The interconnection of two power systems offers the opportunity to achieve an appreciable gain in the reliability of the two generation systems and planned economies as a result of capacity sharing. Use of the probabilistic methods described permits evaluation of these reliability and reserve benefits. The methods described extend the single system probability techniques to two interconnected systems. A digital computer program has been developed to implement these methods."
"This paper presents an analysis of an idealized polyphase hysteresis machine. The distributed magnetic field within the machine is described in terms of dimensions and windings. A single-phase equivalent circuit is developed for the machine and expressions are given for the parameters of this equivalent circuit and for the machine torque. Improvement of power factor by reduction of stator voltage is discussed. Results predicted from the equivalent circuit are compared with experimental data obtained from a small hysteresis motor."
"The purpose of this paper is to report analog computer studies which were made to determine the magnitudes and durations of fundamental frequency overvoltages appearing at the generator terminals and transformer high-voltage bus following certain types of load rejections."
"Dynamic overvoltages which might occur on a proposed 500-kv line of the Ontario Hydro were investigated to determine their effect on insulation, relaying, and other aspects of the system design. The most severe dynamic over-voltages occur if the receiving-end breaker opens leaving the line energized from the hydraulic generation."
"A new technique for detecting dissymmetries built or developed in rotating electric machines is introduced. It is presented with the intent of interesting machine manufacturers to investigate the ideas developed and the degree of practical advances that may be realized by measuring, analyzing, and minimizing detrimental nonuniformities found in such rotating devices. The method promises a simple and more accurate test and final machine adjustment tool. Heretofore unsuspected causes of harmful effects are shown to be mechanical, magnetic, and electrical machine unbalances. The internal electric transients revealed throw new light on machine sizes, efficiencies, radio interference, carbon brush evaluating techniques, and application, as well as on the commutation phenomenon itself. It indicates that exact duplicate machines are rare accidents. The easing of present operating conditions for carbon brushes and extended life for the versatile d-c system are envisioned."
"Based on the theory of permanent-magnet generators piresented in Part I,1 design equations are derived for the short-circuit stabilized generator, and it is shown that the design may be optimized to yield the smallest machine for given specifications. A relationship between short-circuit current and inherent voltage regulation is given. The influence of some design parameters is discussed and recommendations are made for trial values."
"Network relationships have been rigorously derived on a combined open-path and closed-path basis particularly suitable for networks containing autotransformers and phase shifters. The network relations also correctly yield the real and the reactive losses of the network. Matrix and nonmatrix methods for obtaining all the terms in the derived relationlships are also presented."
"The force on a current-carrying wire in a magnetic field and the torque developed by an armature are special cases of the principle that a current-carrying coil, when linked with a magnetic field produced by a separate agency, tends to assume a position such that its electrokinetic energy due to that linkage has maximum value. The elastic band properties of lines of force and the effect of Amperian currents in the teeth of an armature are wholly inadequate to account for observed results."
"This paper describes a new digital computer program for the solution of transients in linear electric networks. The program eliminates a number of obstacles uncovered through studying an earlier, published digital computer program. It is being applied to the solution of single-phase transient problems in power systems by several independent groups. The program may be applied directly to the solution of 3-phase problems, although further work in network reduction is required to this end."
"A gradient method for finding the optimum allocation of load to the energy resources of a hydrothermal system, suitable for use with digital computers, is presented. The operating restrictions are treated simultaneously with the optimization procedure by the use of slack variables. Transmission losses are taken into account."
"A general method is presented to find potential gradient values at any point in the vicinity of bundles with any number of subconductors; it is convenient to use relative values referred to the maximum surface gradient. Practically standard charts of equigradient lines covering the whole spectrum of values for bundles with two, three, four, and six subconductors are calculated using a digital computer and plotted separately for the close and more remote vicinity."
"A method is presented for interrelating the total annual energy requirements, annual energy sales by classes, and annual peak loads of electric power systems as a possible basis for improving the timing of generating capacity additions as compared with the results obtained by methods now generally used; for example, forecasting future loads, where predictions frequently deviate widely from subsequent experience."
"The magnitude of predischarge currents of gaps under impulse conditions have been determined. For gaps formed by two parallel pipes the magnitude is found to be approximately proportional to the length and to the spacing. These currents, which must be drawn through the impedance of the line, produce drops at 2 or 3sμsec (microseconds) that may be equal to or greater than the gap voltage. Adaptation of these properties improves the lightning performance of transmission lines."
"Though commutation is one of the important factors in the designing of d-c machines, the existing method of designing the commutation is very crude. It is generally admitted that the best method of checking the quality of commutation experimentally is to plot no-spark zone diagrams and examine them. Therefore, if no-spark zones could be determined through calculation, it would be a great step forward in the designing of d-c machines. The present paper offers an approximate method of calculating the no-spark zones of d-c machines with lap windings. If this method is adopted, it will be possible, by using a medium-sized digital computer, to calculate rapidly no-spark zones from design data. The statements in the paper occur in the following sequence: the general characteristics of commutation, particularly its singularity and the characteristics of no-spark zone; the definition of the so-called У-ρdiagram based on the knowledge of these characteristics; an approximate plotting of this diagram; an approximate method of calculating the no-spark zones of a practical machine from this У-ρdiagram; and, finally, a few examples of such calculations."
"The switchyard discussed in this paper is associated with a large hydroelectric generating station. Voltages of the 115-, 230-, and 345-kv classes are involved, and various ratings and pertinent features of major equipment are enumerated. A double-bus breaker-and-a-third scheme is used at 115 and 230 kv, and a ring-type bus system is used for the 345-kv circuitry. The station is located in an area where air-borne contaminants are a major problem, and the steps taken to combat this condition are discussed."
"An investigation was made to determine economic design of steam station auxiliary systems for units of 600 to 1,500 mw (megawatts). The study is accomplished in two parts, both of which have the initial assumption that mechanical drive will be used for the main boiler feed pumps. Basic system configurations are used to determine switchgear duty, thus establishing necessary system voltages. This paper presents the methods used in the analysis, the limiting assumptions, and, finally, a comparison of costs of the various system designs."
"Because Avon No. 8 is a supercritical unit, slight modifications from former practices were made in the control and auxiliary supply during the design period. These practices and their modifications are reappraised in terms of the experience gained in putting the unit on the line and operating it for two years along with changes made in this period."
"The performance of displacement governors under steady-state conditions has been treated in a previous paper,1 and their behavior under transient conditions has also been discussed.2,3 In the present paper an attempt is made to investigate the transient performance of a single turbo-alternator set supplying a dead load, two sets joined by an interconnector and supplying a dead load situated between them, and a single set connected to an infinite busbar. Dynamic equations are established and from them the natural frequency of oscillations and transient stability limits are derived. Experimental work including the construction of an experimental governor and the records obtained with this governor under transient conditions is described."
"Experimental comparisons of radio influence (RI) fields from long and short lines were made on a section of a 70-mile 345-kv transmission line. The results of these tests show that for line RI generation the long line RI level can be obtained from short test line data. Tests with a single RI source on the line are also described."
"A computer program has been prepared to perform short-range co-ordination studies of two Susquehanna River hydroelectric plants with the thermal generation in the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland Interconnection System. Dynamic programming with successive approximations was used to form a computing method which would minimize thermal fuel costs. Hydroelectric plant-head variations were accurately represented in the program, as were the practical operating limitations upon plant discharges and reservoir withdrawals from storage."
"The enormous strides which have been made in the development and processing of high-temperature insulations over the past 15 years has caused a reevaluation of their use in rotating machines. This reappraisal is resulting in furnishing more and more electric machines to industry on a Class B or higher temperature basis. Less than 5 years ago, 95% of induction machines in 150-5,000-horsepower sizes were furnished with Class A insulation (rated for 105 C [degrees centigrade] total temperature). Today it is estimated that 40% of all units falling in this category are Class B (rated for 130 C total tempera-ture) or higher. The conversion to higher temperature machines is continuing rapidly and it is reasonable to expect that 75% of all units falling in this horsepower range will be furnished on a Class B basis within several years. How will higher temperature machines differ from the older Class A motor designs? What basic improvements in high-temperature insulations have been made which make an industry transition appropriate? It is the purpose of this paper to answer these questions and to set in focus the reasons for the trend to higher temperature machines."
"A low-impedance heavy-current conductor system made of extruded sections which are designed to take advantage of the inherent features that an extrusion offers in simplicity of assembly, ease of installation, and flexibility in usage is introduced for both power distribution and a-c crane collector applications. The manufacture of a prototype verified the mechanical features of the conductor assembly and tests confirmed the calculated impedance and short-circuit strength."
"A history of the development of a successful, high-power vacuum interrupteris presented. This covers two principal phases: (1) early engineering effort in the late 1920's and early 1930's to produce a commercial interrupter, and (2) a review of the research and engineering at the General Electric Company covering new technologies necessary for the development of the high-power vacuum interrupter. A short review of the literature is included."
"Detailed studies carried out by the authors indicate that for the topographic conditions in central British Columbia in Canada, the use of guyed transmission structures offers worthwhile savings over use of conventional self-supporting towers for extra-high-voltage (EHV) transmission systems. However, the self-supporting tower is recommended for the mountain sections of British Columbia. The advantages and disadvantages of both types of structure are considered, together with a description of a series of tests carried out on a guyed aluminum tower to determine erection methods and costs and to evaluate stability under various loading conditions."
"Development of a reliable, low-cost current sensing device was undertaken for use in capacitor switching, load study, and protective relaying. The unit takes the form of an inductive pick-up coil imbedded in a porcelain insulator. It may be used on straight conductor runs with an accuracy of ±6% before applying correction factors which depend on physical configuration and size of conductor. Output impedance is high, suggesting use of high-impedance loads. Sufficient power is available to operate electronic equipment and sensitive relays."
"Rates charged for electric service are established pursuant to lengthy and complex public hearings before regulatory commissions. In designing individual rate schedules consideration must be given to factors affecting the cost of supplying the service, the value of the service to the user, and many other factors. Five basic rate forms, with many possible combinations thereof, are in common use. Adjustments are provided for variations in power factor, fuel cost, nominal supply voltage, and other factors."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Because the noise created by power-plant equipment has sometimes caused complaints from those working in the plants and from residents living nearby, a survey of such noise was undertaken. This paper presents the results of this survey and shows how the power-plant noise levels compare with desirable levels. Descriptions of the particular equipment that produce most power-plant noise are included along with methods of controlling these noise levels. For those who have no previous association with noise, the Appendix contains a brief introduction to the terms decibels, octave bands, sound pressure, and sound power. For those desiring more detailed data, a descriptive list of references is included."
"Insulating sheath coatings and sheath-joint insulators have been punctured in service, apparently by transient voltages. It has been shown that the discontinuities caused by sheath cross-bonding result in 15% of an applied surge on a conductor, appearing on the sheath at a joint and 30% across the sheath insulator. Bonding transformers result in higher transients. Protective devices appear to be required at each joint. These may be lightning arresters or surge capacitors."
"The theory of monotonic scheduling is extended to hydrothermal systems with interconnections to adjoining power systems. The exposition is limited to the two most common types of interconnection arrangements, although the methods can be applied to other cases as well. All systems entering into this model are assumed to have thermal generation on line for the entire day. Variable-head hydraulic stations can be included in the model. Since energy may be bought and sold across interconnections, the criterion of an optimum schedule is maximum system profit rather than minimum fuel cost."
"Circuit power factor has long been used as a rough measure of circuit interrupting severity. Closer analysis reveals that with some types of modern circuit interrupters (fuses, magnetic air breakers, load break switches) new definitions must be sought to describe the true severity of the application and test circuits. This paper presents the nature of the problem to be solved. This new undefined dimension of circuit severity is presented by means of equivalent circuit techniques."
"By generalizing and expressing as an equation the significant quantities in any relationship it can be made apparent just how each term influences the answer sought. In this paper, a mathematical treatment is developed to define the economic balance between generating capacity having differing first costs and differing operating costs. This is done in terms of annual carrying charges, production costs, and spinning capacity credit. The method is applied to the economics of low-first-cost high-operating-cost capacity, sometimes called peaking capacity. The paper itself, being limited to the mathematics of economic balance, does not discuss and compare different kinds of peaking units. However, in the Appendixes, the peaking equation is modified for use with conventional and pumped-storage hydro capacity employed for peaking purposes."
"An instrument is described for assessing the vibration of energized overhead transmission line conductors. It is a simple electromechanical device, not requiring a specialist to operate or install it. The instrument provides both frequency and amplitude data which may be correlated directly with service experience or with the strain criteria being developed by various organizations for the conductor fatigue problem."
"Before high-voltage insulation is put into practical service, numerous tests are carried out to determine its mechanical, electrical, and thermal properties. Of prime importance is the dielectric strength. This should remain constant for a maximum period of time and is determined by voltage-endurance tests carried out until a breakdown takes place.1-3 Other important characteristics such as air content, corona discharge, and degree of hardening of the insulation can be determined by non-destructive tests with alternating current. These test methods are therefore not only suitable for the evaluation of new insulation systems, but also for supervision during manufacture and, together with d-c tests, for checking the insulation of windings during service. 45 The descriptions given herein are based on practical experience."
"This paper describes a versatile digital computer program for calculating electromagnetic and electrostatic parameters for an untransposed section of overhead line. Applications to current distribution, electromagnetic and electrostatic unbalance, voltage gradients on conductor surfaces, and other problems are discussed. A technique for establishing upper and lower bounds for Carson's earth-return correction and a modified symmetrical component transformation are introduced as new concepts. The flexibility of the proposed computer program offers a means for solving a large variety of related electromagnetic problems."
"By locating a hard magnetic material, such as Alnico, in the leakage flux paths of the secondary circuits of an induction motor, a remarkably high locked-rotor torque per ampere can be obtained, without sacrifice of full-load speed. This paper presents test data for both wound-rotor and squirrel-cage motors, using this Saturistor principle. The motors so made are series hysteresis (induction) motors, with completely different characteristics from the familiar shunt-type hysteresis (synchronous) motor."
"This paper describes a new form of polyphase induction motor, the series hysteresis motor, which derives most of its accelerating torque from the hysteresis losses produced in a hard magnetic material, located in flux paths linked by the secondry currents of the motor. The resulting torque curve is remarkably flat, and the torque per ampere unusually high (Fig. 13)."
"This paper discusses the design and development of a high-attenuation field-applicable acoustic enclosure for large power transformers, based in concept upon the \"Field Incidence Mass Law\" from the field of acoustics. Free-standing and form-fitting, enclosures of this type have been designed to provide noise reduction in the order of 15 to 20 db (decibels), in addition to other advantages inherent in a near-total enclosure."
"Formulas are given for the evaluation of heat losses in the enclosures of isolated-phase bus installations in flat configuration. Middle-and outside-phase losses in open-circuited and electrically bonded enclosures are considered. Middle-phase open-circuited enclosure losses estimated by the proposed formula are compared with loss values inferred from temperature data on 40 heat runs involving a wide range of design parameters. The comparison shows acceptable agreement."
"Natural frequencies and surge response of the windings of 3-phase transformers have been determined in the past by neglecting the capacitive and inductive couplings between the phase windings. This paper shows that these assumptions are not valid and presents a new method of formulating equivalent networks of 3-phase transformer windings for the various winding connections and terminal conditions. By utilizing these equivalent networks the natural frequencies and surge response of the windings can be determined. Tests made on a model transformer showed good correlation with calculated results."
"This paper describes the application of mathematical programming to the power plant economic optimization problem. The problem is formulated for power plants consisting of a number of boiler-turbine-generator combinations each with specified efficiency-load-fuel characteristics. The total electrical output of the power plant is also specified. The objective is to find the operating level and the fuel-mixture ratio of each boiler-turbine-generator combination to minimize fuel costs."
"Pressure-difference relations are given for the insulation of oil-filled pressure cables with fluted sheaths. Pressure differences are calculated for a 380-kv cable with such a sheath, and results are compared with those in a cable having a smooth sheath. Pressure drops are four times smaller in cables with fluted sheaths than in those having smooth sheaths when the insulation is uniform and by an order of magnitude smaller and when it is sharply graded, having high-density paper at the conductor."
"A vernier motor is an unexcited inductor synchronous motor in which a small displacement of the rotor produces a large displacement of the axes of permeance. It runs at a slow speed as if it were geared down from the speed of the rotating field set up by the stator. To design a vernier motor is equivalent to designing a polyphase reluctance motor with an odd-shaped rotor so that the airgap permeance distribution is a displaced triangular wave."
"The high series capacitance theory for the response of interleaved transformer windings to surge voltages is criticized from the point of view that an increased series capacitance as a result of interleaving is incompatible with the concept of a pure capacitive initial voltage distribution. A new theory is proposed according to which the distributed earth capacitances are charged up during an initial period by heavy currents flowing into the winding through surge impedances formed by the coils as a result of interleaving. Formulas are derived for the initial voltage distribution and for the maximum axial voltage gradient."
"Maximum voltage which can be insulated between a sphere and a plane has been measured as a function of gas pressure and gap. It is found to be approximately three times higher in SF6 than in N2+C02, up to pressures of roughly 9 atm (atmosphere). For higher pressures the relative superiority of SF6 over N2+C02 diminishes. Gradients of more than 100 Mv (million volts) per m (meter) were insulated on a 19-mm (millimeter)-diameter electrode in 20 atm of SF6."
"A recently developed computer program will position both angle-and tangent-type towers on any given terrain. The towers are so positioned that the optimum cost per foot of line may be obtained, consistent with predetermined tower heights and types. Basically, the program's tower spotting procedure consists of a mathematical simulation of the established manual method of moving a transparent parabolic-shaped template, representing the conductor sag, along a profile representative of existing terrain features. This program is written in Fortran for use on an International Business Machines Corporation 704-32K digital computer."
"Techniques for maintaining pressure on oil-impregnated paper insulation in high-voltage cable are discussed, with emphasis on the design and application of fluid pressure systems and components. Methods for quantitative determination of pressure drop, oil demand, and oil requirement, about which there has been much written, are omitted here. An aim of this paper is to establish a pumping plant design which has the broadest application, and to classify the significant variations from this base."
"Some instances of use of bare aluminum wire for armoring submarine cables are cited. Particular emphasis is placed on an early installation of ALCAN 57S (AA5052) armored cable between the British Columbia mainland and Bowen Island. Several supporting experimental installations of the same cable, tested up to 10 years, showed loss of mechanical properties of the armoring to be very slight. Additional tests of simulated cable under a wide variety of conditions gave conclusive evidence that aluminum is satisfactory for this application."
"Papers were presented in 1959 describing the development and several applications of a unique epoxy resin-impregnated orlon insulation in the cable system of a large electric utility. The present paper describes additional development work and applications employing resinorlon. The applications include cable joints and potheadless terminations for service through 15 kv, pothead-type terminations for 35 kv, and repairs for cracked lead-sheathed cables, leaks in potheads, and split joint-sleeves. Test data, service experience, and extent of use are discussed."
"Design principles and typical circuits are described for new directional-comparison static-relaying equipment for transmission-line protection. Mho distance units, with offset-impedance supervision, are used for phase faults. The equipment is designed for use with either carrier-current or microwave communications channels, uses semiconductor circuitry throughout, and features high speed: less than 1/2 cycle for 3-phase faults and less than 1 cycle for unbalanced faults."
"Conference papers listed here have been accepted for IEEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The steady-state theory of eddy-current couplings with homogeneous ferromagnetic drums is derived and shown to be valid by tests on an experimental coupling. The effect of machine parameters on peak-torque conditions and a normalized torque-speed relation are given. The flux-density distribution across the pole face under load was measured and correlated with measured torque and speed. Measurements of drum current-density and flux-density distribution through the drum thickness are also given."
"This paper describes studies and tests of overvoltages caused by load rejection on a 345-kv hydroelectric system. The tests indicated satisfactory agreement with predicted initial overvoltages. At later times the observed voltages were lower than predicted. The means of protection adopted are described; the tests permitted assessment of this protection and the results are judged to be satisfactory."
"The functional requirements for high-speed transmission-line relaying are outlined, and a new principle for coordinating ultrahigh-speed tripping units in a pilot relay system is described. Application to 3-terminal lines is reviewed in principle and illustrated by an example. Factory and field tests and a lightning season's field experience are recorded, showing tripping times of 6 to 16 msec (milliseconds) for the pilot relaying and 0.1 to 15 msec for the phase-backup relaying."
"Basic expressions are derived for the relationships between excitation current, speed, and torque of an eddy-current coupling with a solid iron eddy-current member. This paper is concerned only with eddy-current couplings of the inductor or unidirectional flux type; however, the method has been applied also to other types of eddy-current machinery. Necessary approximations are made for the theoretical analysis, and a 5-step procedure is used to develop the resulting relationships."
"The requirement to provide 3,000,000-kva additional short-circuit capacity for a new circuit breaker laboratory was met by constructing a 3,600-rpm generator with very low reactance. This paper describes the general philosophy of designing for low reactance (leading to the two-pole design), and the various electrical and mechanical features of the generator. This machine is believed to be the highest capacity 3,600-rpm short-circuit generator in existence."
"Different observers have established that conventional suspension-type insulators indicate a statistical loss of strength with time. The depreciation in insulator strength is greatest in the first few months then stabilizing at value above the normal recommended working load. Various factors contribute to this loss of strength. The author's investigations have established the deterioration of component hardware coatings as one of the principal reasons for the loss in strength."
"This paper presents an insulated cable system for transmitting bulk power in residential areas, when overhead transmission lines are not acceptable and underground cable costs are excessive. Design and installation of a 69-kv high-pressure gas-filled aluminum-sheath aerial cable with mechanical joints and unique ventilated risers are described. Simulated field tests have been conducted to enable realization of the full ampacity potential of the cable, and operating data have verified the ampacity approach employed. The paper has been prepared essentially in two parts: Part I is concerned with the cable, its accessories, and installation procedures; Part II presents field observations related to the ampacity of aluminum-sheathed aerial cables."
"Field measurements are presented for switching surge line-to-ground voltages at both bus and receiving ends of unterminated 345-kv transmission lines of intermediate length, when energizing and re-energizing. Varied and representative configurations were studied. Effects of source configuration and breaker-pole closing sequence and prestriking are demonstrated. An estimate of overvoltage probability is attempted as well as a rationalized description of waveforms. Comparison tests on 138-kv lines were conducted, and data presented therefrom."
"The purpose of this paper is to present lightning arrester switching surge voltages and currents, measured during a field test program on a 345-kv system. Surges were produced by energization of a transformer-terminated line and by ultra-high-speed re-energization (UHSR) of arrester-terminated lines. Arrester-sparkover levels were 1.1 to 1.7 pu (per unit) of arrester rating, and arrester follow-current peaks were 135 to 940 amperes."
"This paper presents results and analyses of extensive field tests to determine how unloaded transformers affect switching surge waveform and magnitude when energizing and de-energizing intermediate-length lines. Particular emphasis is placed on transformer-terminated lines. Switching of transformer-tapped lines and low-side switching of combined autotransformer and connecting high-side line are discussed, and the results include data from tests on both 345-kv and 138-kv systems."
"Higher capacity testing facilities are being put into service at the Westinghouse Electric Corporation high-power testing laboratories at East Pittsburgh. This paper deals primarily with some of the switchgear and control features of the increased capacity facility."
"The equivalent circuits applicable to many power system switching conditions can frequently be reduced to one or more series or parallel RLC (resistance-inductance-capacitance) circuits. It is shown that the responses of these circuits to a variety of stimuli can be expressed on a per-unit basis, as families of dimensionless curves involving one parameter. Such curves are presented and are then used to solve representative power-switching problems."
"Equations and curves are given which enable the designer to calculate the watt loss in isolated-phase bus enclosures, either of the noncontinuous or continuous type. The equations were derived from an analog method utilizing the electrolytic field analyzer. When using high-conductivity enclosures, such as aluminum or copper, the proximity effect between enclosures cannot be neglected in calculating enclosure losses."
"Power transmission load flow studies are generally based on the assignment for each bus of either voltage or reactive volt-amperes. Reduced system loss may be obtained by more critical voltage adjustment. For each variable voltage bus an optimum voltage is found which gives minimum loss in the neighborhood of the bus. An iterative procedure with a damping factor appropriate to the system is used in the final determination. Trial computations show significant savings."
"Objectives, test methods, results, and conclusions are detailed for four projects involving polyethylene protective jackets for underground high-voltage metal-sheathed cables. These projects involve: (1) evaluation of jacket materials, (2) the effect of fault currents on cable jackets, (3) the effect of switching surges on cable jackets, and (4) protection of joint housings in jacketed PILC (paper-insulated lead-covered) cable."
"A high-power switchgear testing laboratory is a necessary tool for the development of new circuit breakers which meet the requirements of modern electrical systems. This paper describes additions to an American laboratory which increase its power, voltage, and effectiveness. The additions include a generator, transformers, capacitors, a test cell, switchgear, and instrumentation."
"The components of the magnetic vector potential are determined for current elements in radial, peripheral, and axial directions existing between two parallel planes of infinite permeability and resistivity. The total potential due to a closed distribution of currents can be found by integrating the elementary contributions. Flux density is given by the curl of the magnetic vector potential."
"The magnetic field in the end zone of turbine generators is determined analytically in cylindrical co-ordinates. All boundaries are taken into consideration and it is assumed that the field is normal on all of them. The air gap is replaced by a retuin current closing stator and rotor end winding coils. The flux density is determined by superposition of one part due to current sheets existing between the two planes z=0 and z=h and a second because of the cylindrical boundaries."
"The use of model techniques to assist in the design of a 500-kv transmission line is shown. These techniques supplemented full-scale tests and theoretical calculations. Transient Network Analyzer (TNA) models were used to establish levels of switching-surge overvoltages; and nano-second geometrical models of conductors and towers, combined with a Monte Carlo lightning performance computer program, gave estimates of the transmission-line lightning performance."
"The results of full-scale transmission-tower switching-surge, impulse, and 60-cycle tests, wet and dry, indicate pronounced departure from previously published data where the effect of the proximity of the tower was not included. The data include single-insulator strings, V-strings, and lhorizontal and vertical tower gaps including guy-wire gaps. These data are an extension of previous studies on Project EHV insulation structures1 and were undertaken to provide design criteria for a 100-mile link of 500-kv line running at an average elevation of 5,000 feet between Klamath Falls, Oreg., anid Round Mountain, Calif."
"Joint studies of the economic and electrical performance of high-altitude bundled conductors have been undertaken by the Pacific Gas and Electric Company and the General Electric Company as part of a comprehensive investigation of 500-kv-line design practice.1,2 Economic studies show the total annual cost of alternative conductors to be nearly constant over a considerable range of conductivities, but it is determined that a 2-conductor bundle of at least 1.600-inch diameter is required to assure reasonable fair-weather corona loss at a maximum operating voltage of 550 kv. Radio noise studies show a 1.600-inch subconductor to be satisfactory at 550 kv, provided that a surface factor of at least 0.75 is achieved through careful stringing."
"A digital computer design program has been used to evaluate the effects of temperature rise on induction motor performance. The limiting performance guarantees are identified for 40 C (degrees centigrade) rise and 60 C rise machines. Class F and Class H temperature rises appear to require changes in machine geometry if these insulations are to be most effectively used in general-purpose induction motors."
"Conference papers listed here have been accepted for IEEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Locked-rotor motor-temperature tests can be highly repeatable when the test conditions consist of ambient temperature, proximity draft, mounting geometry etc., and are held identical. Since any change of these conditions will affect the motor temperature, the latter can be meaningful only when the former are precisely defined. In judging motor temperature with reference to a temperature limit specified under a different set of conditions, allowance is to be made to account for the difference of conditions."
"The velocity of the return stroke is an important element in estimating (1) the surge impedance of the return stroke, (2) the potential of the downward leader, and (3) the length of the last striking distance. The energy required to establish an arc plasma can be determined from laboratory tests. By equating this quantity to the energy required to retard the velocity of a traveliing wave, the consequent velocity of the return stroke can be evaluated in terms of the stroke current."
"Pumped storage in Europe dates back to the late 19th Century with strong upsurges in the 1930's and 1950's. It is used for various purposes, the extremes of which are seasonal storage and peaking. The paper lists all major pumping stations with complete engineering data, discusses the various possible arrangements of the machinery, the types of pumps and turbines available today, and the coupling and shaft arrangements. A few typical storage and peaking operations are described in some detail. After a short review of the economic aspects, a separate chapter is devoted to reversible pump-turbine units."
"Terminal characteristics of machines without saliency on either member are derived from the solution of Maxwell's equations in the air gap, using conductor configurations which may be present in actual machines. First, the harmonic current sheets are generated. Then energy methods are employed to formulate the equations of motion for both the electric and mechanical terminals. The formulation is general, with respect to both the machine construction and the number of harmonics included."
"The construction of the modern large turbogenerator has been made possible by developments in the manufacture of large forgings, techniques of construction, and design progress maintained by continued reappraisal of known and careful analysis of new problems. The present paper reviews the progress which leads to construction of the direct liquid-cooled generator and discusses a number of major problems which have become prominent with the increase in maximum output. These include negative sequence heating, asynchronous operation, current collection, and short-circuit torques."
"Fault and load curretnt tests were made on a 16-inch spaced bundle conductor test line. Both a spring-type spacer and a laboratory-type rigid spacer were tested. Fault currents up to 36,400 amperes were applied asymmetrically, and load currents up to 3,800 amperes."
"A new stabilizing technique for synchronous electric machines is presented. The method uses an external series controller (utilizing silicon-controlled rectifiers) which affects the synchronizing torque. Experimental studies on a 5-hp (horsepower) synchronous machine confirm the results of theoretical performance calculations. The primary advantage of the new method is in applications where more conventional stabilizing methods fail. A normally unstable doubly fed double-speed synchronous machine has been successfully stabilized by this technique."
"This paper discusses field tests and operating experience on long 275-kv transmission lines. Successful single-pole reclosing depends upon the self-extinction of the secondary arc which persists after the interruption of the power arc upon the isolation of the faulted phase. Analysis of the test oscillograms showed the secondary arc to be inherently unstable. Operating experience during the 21 months since commissioning confirms these results as all reclosures have been successful."
"The energy imparted to a galloping span by the wind and the energy dissipated by frictional sources in the span are investigated, and a short-span experimental line fitted with air foils is used to verify the method of calculating the wind and friction energies. The experience gained from various test spans is presented. The input energy and the energy dissipation of a full-scale span is investigated for a hypothetical conductor cross section. A discussion of the role that torsional motion plays in galloping is also included in this paper."
"This paper describes a new cascade potential transformer which exhibits improved characteristics and utilization of materials as compared with a prior cascade design and with conventional potential transformers. Modifications responsible for these advances include major changes in the magnetic and electric circuits as well as in the mechanical parts. Features of the new design embrace a major reduction in height and weight, high metering accuracy over the entire range of transmission-line voltages, improved mechanical clamping and sealing, and excellen voltage distribution and transient responset"
"In order to operate a power system at optimum economy, the production costs and transmission losses must be coordinated. A straightforward derivation of the co-ordination conditions is given. A widely adopted method of finding transmission penalty factors used so-called \"B-constants.\" These constants are not easily modified to consider changes in the transmission system or deviation from \"base-case\" system conditions. By starting with the equilibrium equation of a power system written in terms of admittance constants, a concise expression for the total losses of a power transmission system which does not neglect shunt paths to neutral or the effect of off-nominal turns ratios is developed. Following this same approach, an easily modified, approximate expression for the penalty factor is formed. Any errors incurred by using this approximate penalty factor are small when compared with the inaccuracy of the original data on production costs. Several test cases on hypothetical systems are given. The generation schedules for economic dispatch, using approximate penalty factors, compare quite favorably in actual hourly costs with the costs of schedules obtained by exact penalty factors."
"On long power-line carrier circuits used for telemetering and automatic control, the signal-to-noise ratio during foul weather may become too low for reliable operation. Where the carrier circuit passes through an intermediate switching or transformer station, amplification of the signal is possible. This paper describes an investigation of the limitations on the gain of an amplifier inserted directly in a carrier by-pass cable. An amplifier with 20-db (decibel) gain installed near the middle of a 260-mile carrier circuit used for telemetering and control functions is described. Power requirements and reliability considerations in this amplifier are also discussed in the following paper."
"A turn-to-turn short circuit in a turbine-generator rotor is detected by measuring the change in rotor reactance. To locate the turn-to-turn short circuit, iron and air-core search coils are used in conjunction with an AEG vectormeter to measure the imaginary component of the induced voltage in the search coils. The results are conclusive even when the rotor wedges are aluminum and the end rings are shrunk on the rotor body."
"Recent co-operative development by representative electric machine and cable manufacturers in Japan has resulted in a direct-connected combination of high-voltage cable, pothead, and transformer, designated as the EHV (extra-high-voltage) elephant-type bushing. With all connections from transformer to cable under oil, dimensions and space requirements are reduced, and problems of atmospheric contamination and flashover are eliminated."
"This paper describes the design and application of a new static overcurrent protective relay system. Design goals and physical characteristics are given. Basis for selection of the new time current characteristics is presented, and new curves are compared with existing shapes. Also given are application examples involving fuse coordination, low-voltage trip devices, motor protection, reset characteristics, and special distribution protective schemes. Burden and temperature data and field test procedures are included."
"Expressions for the saturation factors for the leakage reactance of induction motors with skewed rotors are derived. Saturation is taken into account by the effect of the combined slot-, zigzag-, and skew-leakage flux on the permeances of the flux leakage paths. Curves of saturation factors and leakage reactance of a standard motor are compared with test."
"A procedure is presented for the determination of spinning reserve requirements such that the reliability of service remains constant from hour to hour, day to day, and season to season. The effect of such factors as changes in load level, changes in short-time load forecasting error probabilities and changes in the size of units scheduled to operate are taken into account. The procedure described has been adopted by the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland Interconnection."
"Fair-and foul-weather corona loss and radio noise data from the Project EHV line are presented. Insulator loss and the dependence of corona loss on load current are discussed. Corona and radio noise data were logged continuously from three configurations tested at 500 kv and another at 700 kv and analyzed with a computer. They provide a basis for predicting line performance. The radio noise measurements from the test line are correlated with long-line performance."
"Fault currents up to 54,000 peak amperes were imposed on bundled conductors equipped with instrumented and prototype spacers. Special instrumentation techniques were employed to gather experimental data from these spacers. The data were used to verify a mathematical analysis of the dynamic force problem. Comparison of experimental and analytical results shows them to be in good agreement; a mathematical model, therefore, may be used to direct future spacer design, eliminating the necessity of costly outdoor test programs."
"A conformal transformation is employed to solve for the magnetic vector potential in the air gap of structures with saliency present on one member. Boundary conditions at the cylindrical surface admit the evaluation of the total energy stored in the air gap by suitable changes of variable. Equations of motion may then be found by energy methods."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a method of calculating transmission conductor ratings. These ratings are limited by the amount of annealing which can be tolerated during the life of the conductor. The method includes an approach to weather-data analysis, use of a digital computer for bulk calculations, and a graphical method of calculating annealing. The resulting ratings can be used with confidence, since they reflect both local weather experience and operating practices."
"Randomly varying quantities, contingent upon other independent variables, are not amenable to easy analysis. Continuously recorded radio noise data collected from operating lines over a 3-year period have been subjected to statistical techniques. Some anticipated relationships were established; others failed to be verified. The results presented are based upon records obtained at two high-voltage levels and with three different single-conductor diameters."
"ln most high-voltage switchyards, basic grounding systems are formed by a grid of horizontally buried conductors. A method is developed to determine more accurately the resistance of such grounding systems. The dimensions are those usually encountered in practice with the conductors buried near the surface of the earth. The varying soil resistivity may either increase or decrease with depth according to a certain law, which can represent most of the soil conditions that normally occur in practice. The computed results check well with data obtained from tests in substations which are in service."
"Since their introduction 30 years ago, nonmetallic jackets have largely replaced fibrous coverings and also, to a considerable extent, lead sheaths for rubber-insulated power cables. The commonly used jacket material is neoprene compound. A new polymer, chlorosulfonated polyehtylene (CSPE), has become available with which compounds have been developed that provide a combination of characteristics superior to presently used jacketing materials. The outstanding features of these new compounds, improved thermal and water stability, make them more suitable in over-all characteristics for jacketing power cables insulated with the newer heat-and moisture-resistant insulations which withstand normal operating temperatures of 90 C (degrees centigrade) and short-circuit temperatures as high as 260 C."
"This paper develops, for the first time, a 3-dimensional theory of the eddy-current coupling. It compares, again for the first time, experimental results obtained on various couplings with the theoretical computations and shows a very close agreement between the two. The curves give slip-torque characteristics of eddy current couplings at various excitations with poles ranging from 12 to 42. The paper is highly mathematical and offers a unique example of the application of Maxwell's electromagnetic field equations to a practical engineering problem."
"Conference papers listed here have been accepted for IEEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Planning of capacity additions to high-and low-tension distribution systems should provide both for near-future and long-range loads, which are expected to increase by a factor of three or four in 20 years. Bulk power distribution systems can now supply all-electric mass residential load competitively with other forms of energy. The distribution planner must work closely with all members of the utility organization to promote the electric load growth potential in the energy market."
"Where distribution systems serve areas of nonuniform load density, the usual criterion of kva (kilovolt-amperes) per square mile does not lend itself to an examination of circuit adequacy or system economics per loss considerations. An attempt is made in this paper to develop methods, suitable for planning purposes, which are based on the linear aspects of load distribution and by which the need and usefulness of alternate methods of distribution-system reinforcement can be evaluated."
"The background and underlying assumptions of modern analyses applied to corona noise are reviewed. A method is proposed to compute the noise current generated per unit (pu)* length of conductor from the quasi-peak (QP) value of the field intensity, measured under the phase conductors in the center of an open-ended test line. In this method, measurements are taken at frequencies corresponding to the minima of standing waves, the minima being insignificantly affected by the line attenuation. A numerical example is a case of 1/2-mile horizontal test line."
"A novel arrangement of n transformers delivers power at n times the line frequency. Ratings compare with transformers of the same weight. Waveform and voltage regulation are excellent. An experimental 7X unit with 60-cycle input gave 3.6 kw of 420-cycle output at approximately 90% efficiency. An additional 5X stage gave 2,100 cycles. Applications include high-speed a-c motors, fluorescent lighting, induction heating, control, and communication equipment."
"Data illustrating the wide variation in temperature and temperature rise of a typical large size ACSR (steel-reinforced aluminum cable) conductor under normal variations in weather conditions are presented in this paper. Measurements obtained over a 4-year period at several constant loads on an outdoor test line are used as a basis for increasing the ratings of ACSR and all-aluminum conductors for those installations on the Baltimore system where conductor temperature, instead of losses or regulation, is the governing factor."
"In recent years developments in the application of transmission loss formulas to the economic dispatch of power systems have been very rapid. The purpose of this paper is to describe the method used to apply the loss formula principle to the calculation of transmission losses in the economic dispatch of power on the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) system. The paper presents the results of a study of the accuracy obtained by a selected number of methods when applied to the TVA system. It also includes the application of a rapid and systematic method of checking the validity of each set of loss formula coefficients before being put into use in the hourly economic scheduling program."
"This paper describes the operating experience of the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority's Mainland-Vancouver Island 132-kv submarine cable interconnection, and covers in detail the types of troubles experienced on this circuit and the remedies prescribed during a 61/2-year period. Also included is a section on the cable-freezing process, used for the first time on this type of installation under rather difficult field conditions."
"The need for additional reliable communication services in connection with a power transmission system has prompted a study into the use of carrier superimposed upon \"ground wires\" which are insulated at the points of suspension. This removes the communication channels from the power-carrying conductors and provides a more economical application, with greater potential capacity. This paper presents the design details for such construction and the tests for determining the characteristics, both for carrier and 60 cycles."
"One-fourth-scale model tests on three arrangements of the cooling flow system of a 30-mw (megawatt) alternator have revealed wide variations in the flow distribution, both in longitudinal and circumferential directions. A 5-compartment stator was found to be more satisfactory than a 3-compartment or singlecompartment arrangement, with regard to both total flow quantity and evenness of distribution. A fair approximation to the longitudinal distribution was obtained by neglecting friction losses, other than in the stator."
"The use of a liquid metal as the working fluid in magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) generators is considered and possible energy conversion applications for this type of generator are briefly reviewed. A simple model of the Faraday-type generator is developed and used to obtain relations giving generator terminal voltage, pressure drop, and efficiency. The generator performance is shown to depend oti a magnetic Reynolds number based on the length of the generator duct and, also, on the ratio of machine internal resistance to electric load resistance. The existence of an effect analogous to armature reaction in conventional machines is deduced and the use of compensating conductors to overcome it is discussed. The problems of generator design are considered and examples are used to illustrate the effect of losses in a practical generator. It is concluded that compensation is necessary in all but the smallest machine sizes."
"A computer program which determines growth patterns and characteristics of secondary distribution systems under the influences of time and load growth is described. New methods of considering the basic load characteristics of customers are employed to determine accurate system costs for future years for all growth paths permitted by specified design changes. Using present worth arithmetic, comparisons of these costs are made to determine the schedules of design changes which will result in greatest economy for the system studied."
"Design criteria are given for the comparatively new integral web and universal angle buses. The data include strength and loading limitations, continuous current-carrying capacity, radio interference, and corona measurements applicable to each bus type. Basic requirements are given for joining and making connections in an economical manner with further resultant savings because of a reduction in the number of items and type of material stocked for substation construction."
"This paper describes some computer programing techniques for taking advantage of the sparsity of the admittance matrix. The techniques are based on two main ideas; (1) determination of a sequence of operations. which results in a near minimum of memory and computing, (2) preservation of these operations for repetition. Use of these techniques makes it possible to obtain significant reductions in memory and processing time for many network analysis programs. Claims are substantiated by actual results."
"The electrical conductivity of thin oil-impregnated paper insulation at high electric fields_> 100 kv/cm (kilovolts per centimeter)_has been measured as a function of temperature and voltage. Assuming that the dominant part of the conduction takes place in the oil by means of ions, a theory has been developed which permits the approximate determination of mobility of the charge carriers_10-9 to 10-6 cm2/v-sec (square centimeters/voltsseconds) between 35 C (degrees centigrade) and 145 C."
"The open-path-closed-path (mixed junction pair and mesh) relations derived in Part I1 are related by invariant transformations and their inverses to the open-path (junction pair) relations with reference ground and reference different from ground. Invariant transformations are also derived for transforming from one set of open-path-closed-path relations to any other set of open-path-closed-path relations. It is also demonstrated that the methods of Part I are applicable to general networks, with impedances and/or simple and complex autotransformers to ground. The immediate major application of the open-path-closed-path reference frame is in the area of total losses and incremental losses."
"The actual soil formation at a prospective station site usually can be approximated by an assumed 2-layer stratification. The method of establishing characteristic parameters of such a formation by 4-electrode tests is reviewed. As the main result of this study, curves are presented to determine, from these parameters, the apparent resistivity values to he used in computing the resistance of a grounding grid in a 2-layer soil. During the design of such a grid, the maximum touch and step voltages that might occur during a ground fault have to be evaluated in addition to the station ground resistance."
"Numerous advances in the formulation and processing of electrical insulating compounds based on chemically cross-linked polyethylenes have taken place since they were first introduced commercially in 1958. The result has been a new family of polyethylene based insulations covering a wide range of properties. A review of the available types of cross-linked polyethylene insulations reveals that their properties appear adequate for some applications as an integral insulation-jacket covering for wire and cable. In some cases, however, cable performance can be improved by the addition of a compatible jacket. This is true for unshielded single-conductor cables rated above 600 volts as well as for shielded cables and multiconductor cables."
"After a review of water-resistant insulations now in use for power cables, the properties of a new corona and heat-resistant rubber-like water-resistant cable insulation based on ethylene-propylene rubber (EPR) are compared with those of butyl-base rubber and cross-linked (vulcanized) polyethylene. It is concluded that the new insulation has a more attractive combination of properties than either butyl or cross-linked polyethylene and that it could be operated continuously at 90 C up to 28,000 volts in either wet or dry locations."
"Despite a high volumetric co-efficient of thermal expansion, and relatively poor corona resistance, polyethylene power cables have given excellent service over the past 10 years at voltages through 15 kv. This good experience is largely a result of the use of a novel shielding technique which employs the use of a resilient semiconducting layer of material over the outer surface of the insulation. While cables without this shielding system are now in operation, laboratory cyclic-aging tests indicate that their life may be short if actually operated up to full thermal rating. Also, polyethylene melts at a relatively low temperature. This undesirable feature, of course, limits high-temperature operation."
"Mayr-type arc models, which are useful for relating factors determining circuit breaker interrupting limits, may represent arcs cooled by gas blast as well as by thermal conduction. Preliminary studies with air velocities below 100 feet per second show marked effects of nozzle flow on the model parameters. Arc time constants may be reduced an order of magnitude by such a flow and depend on pressure or velocity gradients as well as fluid velocities."
"The thermal life expectancy of a transformer insulating system can be estimated by analyzing the load cycle supplied by the transformer. By using the thermal and electric characteristics of the transformer, winding hot-spot temperature can be determined throughout the loading cycle and translated into aging data by means of aging curves applicable to the given insulation system. Application of this method of analysis to typical residential load cycles shows that significant thermal aging is confined to a relatively small portion of the annual load cycle and that load factor as well as peak load is important in determining life expectancy."
"This paper describes the constraints which economics places on the design of power transformers. The mathematical analysis shows how the size, losses, reactances, and power output are related when the transformer is optimally designed. Because of the number of simplifying assumptions which have been made, this paper is not a treatise on how to design power transformers. On the contrary, it is a broad view of the design problem which yields findings which are new and which seem to be borne out by the experience of transformer design engineers. The paper confirms the validity of propositions which previously had only empirical backing."
"Tests were made at the Barberton, Ohio, outdoor laboratory of The Ohio Brass Company to cover a range of insulator string lengths, tower sizes, and switching-surge wave shapes, and to explore the response of line insulation to these surges. Surge-front durations of about 250μsec (microseconds) give the lowest flashover voltages. The effect of a preceding trapped line charge (bias voltage) is small but not negligible. Expected field performance under normally adverse conditions is given for line-to-tower insulation and midspan-to-ground gaps. Rod gap studies explain some of the low positive-polarity dry switching-surge flashovers."
"A systematic study shows how the failure times of insulating materials exposed to corona discharges are influenced by various factors, including conductor edge surface discharge conditions, test frequency, void depth, humidity, temperature, material thickness, and average electric stress. Accelerated higher frequency tests permit testing at low-voltage stresses used continuously in applications. These yield results equivalent to 60-cps (cycles per second) tests, in cycles to failure, if both tests are run at low humidity with limited dielectric heating."
"This paper is a report and evaluation of a survey of transformer protection practices covering overheating, methods of detecting faults, and methods of clearing the transformer from the system. The paper supplements a 1947 Committee Report1 and provides a background for a proposed \"Guide for Protection of Transformers.\" It is hoped that this evaluation will provide engineers new to system protection a guide, based on the practices of some 92 operating companies."
"This paper is presented primarily to stimulate discussion in an effort to inform the Working Group on definitions of the feelings of those active in the field of corona. A number of existing sources of definitions of terms related to the subject of corona are examined. Several important terms are then defined, and a discussion of the reasoning behind the definitions is given. In this discussion, a number of other phenomena have been described, although they have not formally been defined."
"A simple and useful chart for showing the relations between electrical quantities on the a-c and d-c sides of a converter has loci of constant direct voltage and current in rectangular co-ordinates representing the active and reactive power of the a-c source. Because the per-unit direct voltage equals the a-c power factor, the loci are radial straight lines; and, because the per-unit direct current equals the per-unit alternating current, the loci are concentric arcs. Other loci may be added to the chart."
"On December 15, 1961, a Task Force of the United States Department of the Interior completed an extensive study, which resulted in a recommendation for at least one, and ultimately perhaps two or three EHV (extra-high-voltage) circuits to intertie the systems of the Pacific Northwest and the Pacific Southwest. The assumptions will operate successfully. Task Force report found 750-kv direct current (±4375 kv) to be the most economical for these lines. See Fig. 1.1,2"
"Loss in strength is a function of conductor maximum temperature which, itself, is a function of I2t. Instead of producing currents and times as they may occur in the field, one can, in the laboratory, choose more convenient values giving the same I2t, the same maximum temperature and the same loss in strength. Using this approach, diagrams were developed showing, for electrically equivalent copper and aluminum conductors, the current-time relations producing specific degradations."
"Static inverters of up to 100 kva (kilovolt-amperes) have been built, and units up to 800 kva are being designed. These devices, generally in smaller sizes, are suitable for converting direct current from batteries to alternating current for emergency loads or for continuous power sources for essential a-c loads. Typical applications, battery considerations, application problems, and available units are discussed."
"A method has been developed for estimating line-to-ground and phase-to-phase clearances to withstand switching surge voltages in substations. Clearances have been calculated for standard system operating voltages through 500 kv with an assumed switching surge magnitude of 2.8 times the maximum line-to-neutral crest voltage. Consideration has been given to the simultaneous occurrence of opposite polarity switching surges on adjacent phases. Clearance values will be verified by testing programs before being recommended for design purposes."
"This paper describes a single-tank power circuit breaker utilizing sulfurhexafluoride (SF6) gas as the interrupting medium. A complete description of the breaker is given. Test procedures used in life testing, voltage testing, and interrupting tests are described. Oscillograms of tests and tabulated test data are given which demonstrate its assigned rating of 69-kv 5,000-mva (megavolt-ampere) 5-cycle interrupting time."
"A nonlinear differential equation describing the steady-state operation of a current instrument transformer is formulated based upon a Rayleigh hysteresis loop approximation of the magnetic core effects. Using a harmonic-balance technique, a suitable approximate solution of this equation provides expressions for the RCF (ratio correction factor) and phase angle errors for the transformer directly in terms of the magnetic properties of the core material and the transformer instrument burden."
"This paper describes the electric auxiliary-power systems in a sodium-cooled graphite-moderated nuclear reactor (SGR). Reliability requirements and methods of achieving them are discussed, and sodium-system preheating, a requirement unique to sodium-cooled reactors, is outlined. Nuclear instrumentation electric noise problems and methods of avoiding them are included. Auxiliary power requirements of a 360-mwe (electrical megawatt) SGR plant are compared with those of a similar conventional plant."
"A portable electric defibrillator has been designed, capable of being operated from 115 volts a-c or from 6-or 12-volt storage or dry batteries. Features have been incorporated to insure safety, to both the operator and the victim. Prototypes of this type of equipment have been tested extensively on animals, . and have been used successfully on six human victims of ventricular fibrillation in the hospital. The defibrillator discussed here has been successfully employed once."
"Although it has long been realized that flammable gases were produced by the decomposition of solid insulation and insulating oil due to faults in electric equipment, this generally has not been considered an explosion hazard in the operation or maintenance of the equipment. On August 15, 1962, an explosion of flammable gases was experienced in a 161-kv oil circuit breaker tank at the Oak Ridge gaseous diffusion plant. The breaker had been drained of oil and opened for inspection to determine the cause of high contact resistance detected during routine testing of the breaker. This searing blast was the direct cause of death of one employee and resulted in minor injury to five others. Because of the unexpected nature of this hazard and its wide existence in the electrical industry, this paper proposes to acquaint the industry with the incident and to promote further investigation into the handling of insulating oil."
"This paper presents some of the methods and equations evolved by the computer section of the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company which were found to be useful in applying the digital computer to the design of small d-c machines. Machines using wire-wound coils and having a shunt field of sufficient strength to provide the majority of the excitation will be considered. As the techniques are presented, an attempt will be made to give some of the background and specifics of the method or the development of the equation involved. The results of a successfully written and debugged shunt motor design program, which uses the majority of these methods, are presented to validate the techniques."
"Insulating materials can fail through internal growth of tree-like breakdown channels. These \"trees\" are commonly nonconducting hollow interconnecting tubules. Conduction in such trees occurs by small discharges. The paper describes a test for treeing resistance and considers the effects of electric stress, resin composition, cure, etc., on breakdown time for typical epoxy systems. The rank of materials in treeing resistance varies with stress and shows no obvious correlation with other breakdown properties."
"It is recognized that safety involves many things. It is design and operation. It is men and material. If safety thinking permeates all elements in an organization, it reduces accidents and improves reliability. The industry record improves also. To maintain this trend it is essential that new concepts in design and operation procedure be thoroughly reviewed from the safety viewpoint. This paper briefly discusses the methods by which safety can be kept abreast of technological improvements."
"Provides references to published articles on bundled conductors covering 1909-1959."
"This is a progress report on the authors' studies of the mechanism of longterm dielectric breakdown in polyethylene; the report wus first given in 1948. Testing has been accelerated by using higher than power frequencies. Earlier testing concerned the effects of surface ionization on life; current studies include solid breakdown. To date the authors have been unable to produce solid breakdown in polyethylene which was not preceded and caused by surface ionization."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"DISCUSSIONS of the role of reliability physics have begun to receive attention in the literature of reliability during recent years. Of principal concern has been the selection of a methodology and a determination of the areas of most needed research. In this study, an attempt is made to analyze the requirements of a \"physics of failure\" program. Categories of effort evaluated include electronic parts, materials, measurement techniques, and failure mechanisms. Parameters applied to these categories include part failure rates, part populations, present and proposed use, probability of improvement, and practical and economic considerations concerned with implementing the effort categories. Choice of parameters, weighting factors, and priorities is discussed. Needed areas of investigation and planning factors in failure mechanism studies are presented."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The activities described here represent the initial results of a long range program. These studies are concerned with applying the knowledge gained by failure physics investigations, to the problem of predicting electronic part behavior. The approach is to construct a computerized mathematical model from physical knowledge of part materials and their interactions. These activities are concerned with applying known relationships into a cohesive theory broadly applicable to a wide range of electronic parts, and covering a broad spectrum of stress types and stress levels. Our initial study vehicle has been a metal film resistor, formed by vapor deposition of Evanohm. That it has been necessary for us to conduct substantial experimental investigations for this single device is perhaps indicative of the fact that, to a large degree, part manufacturers have not felt the need to conduct such investigations with respect to their own product. Only to the extent that the over-all Physics of Failure program can motivate the entire community of parts manufacturers to conduct such fundamental investigations can activities toward a comprehensive failure theory completely fulfill the goal that has been set. It is impossible for all such fundamental work to be carried out specifically as the need arises by any one organization or group of organizations. Rather, it is necessary that efforts in developing a comprehensive failure theory place emphasis upon applying the knowledge gained by others."
"Tantalum films, 3000 angstroms thick, evaporated on fused-quartz substrates and activated by neutron irradiation, were anodized at 82 volts to form an oxide layer of approximately 1600 angstroms. Counterelectrodes of gold were evaporated on the oxide and the completed thin-film capacitors were placed under thermal and electrical stress. The radioactive profiles of unstressed tantalum units show a pronounced variation of the tantalum-to-oxygen ratio from that of pure tantalum at the metal-oxide interface to a limiting value 600 angstroms away from the interface. Application of thermal and electrical stresses alter the shape of the gradient and extend it several hundred angstroms further into the oxide layer. By normalizing the data with respect to the gradient formed by anodization in the unstressed unit, it was shown that thermal diffusion creates regions in the oxide near the tantalum interface where the tantalum concentration was depleted below that of the original unstressed unit and regions farther away from the interface where tantalum was in excess. Direct-current electrical bias accelerated the tantalum diffusion, and in combination with short-term thermal stress created regions where the tantalum concentration was in excess of that of the unstressed unit. Longer term thermal and electrical stress gave rise to an over-all region of tantalum depletion in the oxide. Diffusion constants calculated as a function of oxide thickness were of the order of 10-13 cm2/day with the larger constants associated with electrically stressed units."
"THIS paper is based upon the premise that metallic impurities diffuse into the bulk semiconductor regions of semiconductor junction devices, within the limit imposed by the solid solubility of these impurities. It will be shown that the subsequent ionization of these \"unwanted\" impurities causes certain electronic parameters of the junction to be altered in a predictable way; for example, the addition of these ionizable impurities near the physical interface at the junction causes a change in the electronic structure of the depletion layer which is clearly evidenced by shifts in reverse-biased junction capacitance. The capacitive technique of measuring solid-state diffusion is examined in detail, and its application to the problem of describing failure in semiconductor junction devices is set forth. The diffusion process is assumed to be governed by Fick's diffusion equation. As a first approximation, a simple one-dimensional diffusion model has been proposed, and the equations (Fick, Poisson, and capacitance) consistent with such a model are solved, simultaneously, to yield an expression for junction capacitance as a function of initial resistivities, diffusion constants, bias voltages, and diffusion time. The Burroughs 220 computer has been used to provide numerical results for a large number of sets of variables. Successive models which have been proposed seem to be more comprehensive, since they take into consideration additional ways in which impurities may be \"moved about\" in the vicinity of the junction. One such way is the transport of ionic impurities under the influence of an applied external field."
"ACCELERATED step-stress and constant stress tests of two types of film resistors have been analyzed by menas of a time-temperature parameter, based on Arrhenius type aging mechanisms. Correlation was made with physical degradation models of the resistor types. Estimates of time to failure can be made, based on typical environmental exposures. Degradation in planar transistors was found to be affected by random discontinuities, so that a similar correlation could not be made."
"Accelerated stressing has become a popular method of evaluating high reliability devices in short periods of testing time. However, the convenience of accelerated testing should not be the prime factor for use. Tl he modes of failure generated by normal (within rating) and accelerated (exceeding rating) stressing should be compared before failure rates created bv accelerated stressing are accepted as valid. It has been found for moisture gettered PNP germanium mesa transistors that the predominant modes of failure created during accelerated stressing are different from the predominant modes of failure created during normal stressing. During accelerated unpowered thermal stressing, parameter changes are exactly opposite to parameter changes during normal unpowered thermal stressing. The direction and irreversibility of parameter changes, the dependence of amount of parameter change on the stabilization bake temperature and internal package vapor pressure, anid a good fit of hFiE decay to Wallmark's equation: 1/hFE = C1 e-Cs/T t1/3+C3, all point to oxidation of the germanium surface. The activation energy as determined from the above equation is discussed. Oxidation of the germanium surface is negligible at temperatures less than stabilization bake temperatures. Accelerated powering produced several predominant failure modes not observed during normal power stressing. Electrical overstressilng characterized by lead wire melting and junction shortinig were first-orler failures. Failures by junction shorting through the bulk vere reverse collector voltage dependent as well as power dependent. Tlhe failures were attributed to operation in a negative resistance mode."
"This paper concerns effects observed in silicon power transistors. The first part deals with the appearance of thermally induced breakdown and the high local temperatures in a hot spot. By means of potential probing on the aluminum contact area of the transistor, two different types of behavior could be found. Usually the region carrying current in the breakdown condition occurs at about the center of the area developing a hot spot prior to breakdown. However, transistors have been observed in which the breakdown area did not coincide with the hot spot, indicating that a local defect is involved. In the second part of this paper some studies are presented on the nature of the damage caused by the breakdown. Generally the damage results in an ohmic path internally between emitter and collector. Continued operation in the breakdown region results in the resistance of the path becoming smaller until a short circuit is produced accompanied by evidence of local melting."
"To ATTAIN maximum reliability and availability in the operation of large computing systems, the reliability of subsystems and components must be maintained at a high level. Inasmuch as the major portion of all system failures may be traced ultimately to the component level, Burroughs Corporation has seen fit to fund a substantial reliability effort in the area of component failure analysis, which has, over the past several years, paid for itself through increased system reliability and effective extension of the life of computers already in the field. Studies are not limited to components already in use, but as promising new devices become available, sample quantities are obtained, tested, and often deliberately failed in various ways to determine the most probable failure mode. From these studies, much valuable data and information has been obtained which has, in turn, been of great value to the procurement and design activities in selecting best components available for a particular job. Much of the work accomplished has been, of necessity, associated with semiconductor devices. Much data on failure modes of other components has been accumulated also, but for the purposes of presentation, it is proposed to limit the discussion to semiconductors-their failure modes and the means for determining these failure modes."
"The purpose of this paper is to present a general theory of aging applicable to any physical structure. No macroscopic structure lasts forever. Humans and animals die, machines deteriorate, components fail and even a rock withers away in time. Nowhere in nature do we find immortality of such structures. Why? We have no general explanation; all our present answers are specific. We state that humans and animals fail from certain biological causes; machines from mechanical causes; components from electrical and thermal causes; rocks from the slow withering of the weather. The underlying reasons why all such structures eventually fail have not been formalized."
"Both the catastrophic and leakage current increase failure modes are directly associated with the current flickering phenomenon peculiar to the solid tantalum capacitor. These current bursts are themselves associated with imperfections in the tantalum oxide film. Imperfections or flaws can arise from several sources such as impurities (both metallic and gaseous) in the base metal, surface geometry of the metal, physical damage to the oxide, or thermal cycling of the metaloxide during processing. Localized heating within microscopic flaws due to relatively high current flowing through such sites can account for leakage current rises and also subsequent flickers assuming an energy barrier has been exceeded which allows a sudden avalanche flow of current to occur. Surges which occur with no apparent gradual leakage current increase are difficult to explain, but one can consider such possibilities as slow chemical reactions at extremely small areas or field-induced diffusion of ions and/or vacancies in the oxide. Occurrence of either failure mode can be reduced or eliminated by various combinations of applied voltage, environmental temperature, or circuit resistance. Infrequently failures due to increases in capacitance and/or dissipation factor are found. A defective hermetic seal which allows moisture to enter the unit is the most common cause for such failures. Since more of the available tantalum oxide surface is contacted by the moisture than is by the MnO2, the capacitance shows an increase. The increase in dissipation factor results from an increase in the resistivity of the MNO2 due to the presence of moisture."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper gives an analysis of a modified Pierce oscillator for frequency variation due to changes in the circuit or transistor. The magnitudes of the frequency shifts due to parameter changes are computed in relation to each other. The analysis has been verified by testing the oscillator circuit with several transistors which had significantly different measured parameters. Computed frequency shifts were compared with measured frequency shifts. The agreement between experimental and calculated data is <8×10-9 with a 5 Mc, fifth overtone quartz crystal in the circuit. A general equation relating frequency changes to changes in circuit parameters has been derived and is applicable to any operating frequency as long as the y parameters of the transistor and the circuit elements of the oscillator are known."
"An apparatus is described which uses the unique properties of an H-plane microwave junction to observe electron spin resonance in a manner analogous to the Bloch induction method. The theoretical sensitivity of this technique is expressed as a function of the parameters of the junction and the minimum observable number of unpaired electron spins. This method is compared with cavity techniques and is found to yield high sensitivity for small volume samples."
"A simple semiautomatic instrument for tracing common-emitter hybrid collector and base characteristics of low-level transistors is described. DC supplies, including a transistorized automatic and continuously varying voltage supply, are encountered in the network which allows appropriate biasing of transistors to be tested. Plotting of transistor curves is provided by a conventional X-Y recorder. The range of the instrument comprises: for plotting collector characteristics-base currents up to 40 μa, collector voltages up to 15 v; for base characteristics-base currents up to about 30 μa. The instrument enables accurate and rapid plotting of transistor characteristics, which is of considerable importance for special design purposes, when trade data of transistors prove to be inadequate."
"The bridgewire of an electroexplosive device is evaluated for its thermal response to impulse energy and to square-wave power. Thermal time constant and basic electrothermal parameters can be measured from the response. These parameters are useful in the study and characterization of electroexplosive devices."
"This paper describes a magnetic angle-encoder development utilizing two microminiature Hall-effect probes and a single-track magnetic drum. This approach to angle encoding and measurement offers possibilities for developing compact and higher-resolution angle encoders for inertial guidance and space platform applications. The Hall-effect probes allow measurement of the magnetic drum's recorded field directly instead of the usual time derivative of flux, thus readout can be accomplished at zero angular rate. The probe consists of a semiconductor crystal, mounted in a plane parallel to the drum, in order to sense the vertical component of the recorded signal. Both indium arsenide (InAs) and indium antimonide (InSb) crystals measuring 0.030×0.005×0.0003 inch in length, width and thickness, respectively, have been used. The width of the crystal has been the determining angular resolution factor for the encoder. Analyses of probes sensing the vertical and horizontal components of the magnetic field, respectively, are included. The crystal is ac excited with 10 mw of power at 40 kc. The resulting signal readout can be amplitude or phase modulated as determined by the balancing resistor connected between the input and output of the crystal. The signal is amplified, detected and shaped so that the resulting square waves are available to a digital computer or a bi-directional counter. The maximum modulating frequency has been set at 1000 cps. This upper limit is determined by drum size, maximum rpm of the drum, and the recorded bit packing density. The probe resolves bit densities of 180 bits per inch. Using a 1."
"A signal-to-noise analysis is made of the Wheatstone bridge, where the unknown and standard resistors may be at different temperatures, a situation which occurs in resistance thermometry. The limiting condition is assumed to be dissipation in the unknown resistor. It is shown that the ratio arms should be low in resistance compared with the unknown resistor, while the standard resistor should be high. This is true to an extreme degree when the unknown resistor is at liquid helium temperatures, and the standard resistor at room temperature. This factor is much less important in high temperature thermometry, where the noise in the unknown resistor will predominate strongly. An impedance step-up device (transformer or tuned circuit) is valuable in raising the bridge signal and noise level above the noise of the first amplifier tube. However, as the step-up ratio is increased, two counterfactors appear, namely, noise in the loss resistance of the step-up device, and grid current noise. There is therefore an optimum step-up ratio, which has been found. The step-up device is permitted to have a different temperature from the unknown and standard resistors, to evaluate the advantage of cooling it. With certain assumptions about the noise and grid current of the first tube it is found that the equivalent temperature of a unity ratio (Mueller) bridge used for liquid helium measurements may be 400°K."
"A bolometric method of calibrating low-level microwave power measuring devices is currently employed at the National Bureau of Standards in Boulder, Colo. The technique is one of direct comparison between the standard and the unknown, and utilizes NBS working standard bolometer units and self-balancing dc bridges. In general, the unknown is calibrated to an accuracy of one per cent. The following quantities are defined and the associated errors are discussed: 1) Calibration factor of a bolometer unit in combination with a directional coupler, 2) Calibration factor of a bolometer unit, and 3) Effective efficiency of a bolometer unit."
"A bridge circuit has been developed, using a Zener diode, which enables measurement of small changes in current or voltage from a preselected value. The circuit features increased sensitivity over a meter whose range includes the total current and is more easily used than a balanced bridge or potentiometer. The design equations are developed and the design procedure outlined for both the current and voltage difference measuring bridges, while a sample calculation is made for the current change measuring circuit. A bridge similar to that in the sample calculation was built and tested. The test circuit displayed less than 1 per cent nonlinearity of meter current vs change of input current for the design region of 460±5 ma. This shift was attributed to a slight heating of the Zener diode or a resistor at the higher test currents, but since the diode used in the test circuit had a smaller power rating than the type originally intended for use, it is not considered to be a serious limitation."
"Determination of induced surface current on cylindrical reflectors in a parallel-plate region from measurements of electricfields distribution is described. The probe-reflector interaction in the measurement of electric-fields distribution is examined and the requirement of probe reflector spacing which ensure the small interaction is also investigated."
"This summary article resulted from an informal discussion period held during the International Conference on Precision Electromagnetic Measurements, August 14-17, 1962. This session was presided over by Prof. Norman Ramsey of Harvard University. The Radio Standards Laboratory of the National Bureau of Standards in Boulder, Colorado, sponsored the meeting along with the IRE Professional Group on Instrumentation and the AIEE Instrumentation Division. Partial support for the conference came from a grant from the National Science Foundation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the Microwave Calibration Services Section of the NBS Radio Standards Laboratory, Boulder, Colo., and analysis of calibration data obtained from measurements made on a rotary-vane type attenuator reveals that the vane alignment produces an inherent vane-angle error. It is found that the standard deviation of the measured values of attenuation is correlated with the vane-angle error. Approximately two-thirds of the attenuators calibrated were in error by less than 50 per cent of the manufacturer's stated specifications of accuracy. The treatment of the errors of a rotary vane attenuator is extended to cover the vane-angle error, resettability error, and mismatch error. The method of analysis is applicable to all attenuation values and vane-angle errors of this sample. Graphs are used to estimate the limits of these errors. Several representative cases are given using the deviation from the \"estimated vane-angle error\" to establish limits in the correction of vane-angle error. A modified rotary-vane attenuator with a resolution equal to 30 times the resolution of the attenuators comprising the sample was used to verify calculated vane-angle error at various values of attenuation. Inherent vane-angle error can be reduced by increasing the dial resolution and by a technique of precise vane alignment at zero dial setting."
"The extremely fast ionization process in semiconductors offers a means of generating pulses that have subnanosecond rise times and high peak powers. There are several important applications of these pulses which require the duration of the generated pulse to be variable. This report investigates three methods of producing variable-width pulses using transistors operating in the avalanche mode. The first circuit studied is used with a capacitor as the collector load. It produces pulse rise times of less than one nanosecond but has the disadvantage of a relatively slow RC discharge fall time. Distributed and lumped parameter delay lines were used in the second form of circuits studied. With the artificial delay line the pulse width can be controlled by opening the line at different sections whereas, with the cable, the length must be altered to change the pulse width. These circuits produced fast rise, flat top, and fast fall pulses. In the third method studied, a composite circuit is used in which the fast rise of an avalanche pulse is added to a slower rise, but variable duration pulse, generated by a saturating transistor. This method is shown to produce fast rise, variable-width pulses with overshoot and ringing easily held to less than five per cent."
"A theoretical analysis is made of a microwave radiometer which utilizes no predetection amplification. The minimum detectable temperature, defined as the temperature which results in an output signal-to-noise ratio of unity, is shown to be (π/BM) (T0/2Kτ0)1/2 where B is the predetection bandwidth, M is the crystal figure of merit, T0 is the ambient temperature, K is Boltzmann's constant, and τ0 is the postdetection time constant. The predicted minimum detectable temperature for the millimeter wavelength region is about 50°K for a one-second postdetection time constant. Some experimental measurements are presented which show good agreement with the theoretical results. Because of the absence of predetection amplification, the sensitivity of the crystal-video radiometer is relatively poor; however, it is quite adequate for those applications where large temperatures are expected, such as gaseous discharge research. The simplicity of the crystal-video radiometer and its adaptability to complete solid-state instrumentation make it quite attractive for radiometric measurements from space probes and satellites."
"The detection statistics of a molecular beam are analyzed, taking into account fluctuations in emission, transition and detection. It is discovered that the over-all process has a Poisson distribution. Because of the nature of this distribution, it is noted that the optimum method of estimating the average number of molecular transitions is by means of a long-time average of the detected current. The degree to which the detector current is a measure of the average number of molecular transitions in the device is established, with a certain minimum confidence, by use of the Tchebycheff Inequality."
"The piezoresistive effect, the change in resistivity caused by mechanical stress, is large enough in semiconductors for use in strain gages and other transducer elements. This paper reviews the piezoresistive effect in semiconductors having diamond or zincblende crystal structures and discusses applications. Definitions and typical values are given for the important material properties such as stress sensitivity, strain sensitivity, temperature dependence of sensitivity, and effect of crystal orientation. In addition, new information is given on piezoresistive properties of diffused layers on semiconductors, and diffused sensing elements of several types are analyzed. The advantages of increased design flexibility and improved sensitivity over uniformly doped gages are shown."
"Inductive voltage dividers are now used in measurement laboratories for the production of audio-frequency voltage ratios with errors (deviations from turns ratio) of a few parts in ten million of input. A major component of error arises from the interaction between distributed shunt impedances and leakage impedances in the windings. Correction for this systematic error in dividers of special design can result in an order-of-magnitude improvement in accuracy. A solution using network equations has been obtained for the corrections to the relative errors of inductive voltage dividers of specific design. Earlier theoretical considerations, confirmed by measurements of limited accuracy, indicated an S-shaped curve of ratio error vs nominal ratio, and quadrature component vs nominal ratio. The results from recent calculations are in agreement with the earlier measurements and provide much better definition of the true shape of the S-curve. An algebraic equation has been derived for the limiting form of this S-shaped characteristic curve. A resistance analog of an inductive voltage divider was constructed to represent the lumped circuit parameters equivalent to the distributed shunt admittances and the winding impedances. Measurements of the gross errors in the analog have yielded experimental results in excellent agreement with those calculated from the network equations."
"This paper describes some developed equipment found very useful in evaluating circuits that require digital inputs. For example, D-A converters are generally tested by using their associated A-D converter as a test-signal source. Since the A-D converter itself introduces errors, the measurement of analog input and output indicates over-all performance but not individual converter performance. The digital function generator allows separate evaluation of D-A converters by synthesizing useful test functions from discrete samples. Comparison of the known input with the output gives an accurate performance check. The present equipment generates up to sixteen different samples, represented by nine-bit words in parallel form, at a word rate of 12 Mc. A discussion of useful test functions for determining D-A converter linearity and transient response will include discussion of digital sine waves, ramps, and step functions. Although D-A converter evaluation is stressed, the equipment is also useful for other tasks."
"In order to monitor the electron temperature during plasma afterglow experiments, a gated microwave radiometer has been developed. The radiometer differs from the usual Dicke type of radiometer in the input switching scheme and in the fact that a good time resolution is required. The radiometer to be described has a time resolution of one microsecond and a temperature sensitivity of about ten degrees Kelvin when measuring temperatures near room temperature. The response time when used with a repetitive afterglow is 20 seconds. Measurements of electron temperature in a decaying nitrogen plasma have been made duirng the initial 300 microseconds of the afterglow."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The method of obtaining a frequency response of a rate gyroscope, as described in this article, is applicable to any gyroscope which is equipped with a variable reluctance transformer (microsyn). The damping ratio of the gimbal system can be obtained under any environmental condition without mechanical rotation of the gyroscope and without breaking the electrical connections to it. The microsyn is electrically excited to exert upon the gimbal a sinusoidally varying-in-time torque of constant amplitude and of controllable frequency, and at the same time is used to indicate the resulting displacement of the gimbal."
"The Space Surveillance System developed at Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) for the detection of earth satellites forms a fence across the southern part of the United States. Four receiving sites are altered with three transmitting sites which iluminate satellites with radio energy as they traverse the fence. The angle of arrival of the reflected signals is measured at each receiving station by a compound radio interferometer. These signals yield a multiplicity of channels which are normally recorded on paper and analyzed manually by visual aids and special slide rules. With the increasing satellite population and the repetitive nature of their orbits, the number of fence crossings has increased considerably. Automation in the detection process is needed to facilite identification and sorting of satellites from each other (and from refuse) if a large backlog of data is to be avoided. An electronic system has been developed which automatically combines the phase channels into one unambiguous channel and depicts the angles of arrival of the radio energy from the satellites. The basic technique used in the phase-channel combiner is as follows. Since complete a priori information on the incoming signals is known, simulated signal waveforms, locally generated, are correlated channel by channel with each signal channel from the radio interferometer. At the moment of coincidence between each simulated and live signal channel, a \"marker\" pulse is generated. This process is applied simultaneously to all of the output channels of the multichannel radio interferometer."
"This paper describes a method used successfully by the author in measuring silicon diode reverse leakage currents. The technique used is straightforward and provides wide-range, low current measurements with improved accuracies and automatic ranging features. The full-scale indications extend from 10-3 through 10-10 amperes in eight decade ranges. The full-scale accuracies achieved are better than ±0.5 per cent on ranges 10-3 through 10-8 amperes, ±1 per cent on the 10-9 ampere range, and ±10 per cent on the 10-10 ampere range. The automatic ranging feature exhibits a response of 10 msec per range. The method used is based on sensing the voltage drop (ES) across a sensing resistor (RS). This sensing resistor is in series with the reverse biased diode, as shown in Fig. 1. The sensing voltage is then amplified to an appropriate level (Eo) which can be more easily and accurately measured and/or digitized, depending upon the type of output display and storage method used."
"A pulse modulator that can be used as an amplifier, a multiplier, or a divider is introduced. Some of its desirable features are that it can respond without delay to a change in input signal, it is of very simple construction and it can be used to control either proportional or on-off systems."
"Rather than a comprehensive survey of the field, highlights of the progress in microwave standards and measurement methods are given. Power, attenuation, impedance or reflection coefficient, noise, phase shift, and field strength are covered. Microwave frequencies are assumed to start at 1 Gc and extend upwards, including coherent electromagnetic energy in the spectrum of visible light, approximately 400-800 Tc. A discussion of the intercomparisons of power standards of different nations is followed by a report on newly developed power measuring devices and techniques. Some methods of measuring the power of lasers are given. The present status of attenuation measurements and standards is indicated, giving ranges and accuracies of calibrations at the National Bureau of Standards, Boulder, Colo. New types of standards for millimeter and submillimeter waves and for attenuation of laser beams are mentioned. Impedance standards and measuring techniques are discussed, as well as 2-port measurements and the development of greatly improved coaxial connectors. The recent development of phase shift standards and measurement techniques in the United States is summarized. The essential lack of microwave field strength standards is noted and small progress is reported."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"A novel approach to the logarithmic measurement of neutron level and period in a nuclear reactor is described, in which the statistical fluctuations in the output of a neutron detector are utilized rather than the individual pulses or the d-c component. This approach is shown to overcome some of the limitations that are inherent in the usual log n and period amplifier systems. A system using a fission chamber as detector and all solid-state circuitry is shown which covers a six-decade range of neutron level between the limits of 103 and 1010 nv without the need for low level d-c amplification."
"The search for gamma radiation with energy greater than 50 Mev from extraterrestrial sources has resulted in some of the most interesting and most difficult balloon and spacecraft experiments. The present status of this search is reviewed. The first attempt to detect this radiation from solar flares resulted in no increase of the counting rate above background intensity. An upper limit of 1.0 × 10-2 photons cm-2 sec-1 in the type 2 flare of March 13, 1962, and an upper limit of 1.2 × 10-2 photons cm-2 sec-1 in the type 3 flare of March 22, 1962, was determined for the gammaray flux. The upper limit to the flux from the quiet sun was 1.0 × 10-2 photons cm-2 sec-1. These results represent a partial reduction of the data from the first Orbiting Solar Observatory. Of all methods used in gathering information about the nature of the universe, that of detecting and analyzing the electromagnetic wave spectrum provides the most direct and useful data. One of the most interesting and perhaps the most difficult region of the spectrum to explore is high-energy gamma radiation, which consists of photons of energy greater than 50 million electron volts. This paper will review the present status of gamma-ray astronomy and report some of the preliminary results obtained from the Orbiting Solar Observatory (OSO-I)."
"The effects of silicon bombardment by hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, neon, xenon, phosphorus and boron ions have been studied using a Van de Graaff accelerator and a 250KV Cockroft-Walton accelerator to produce ions with energies ranging from 50 kev to 1 Mev. Bombardments with each of the gaseous ions produced type conversion in p type silicon. The n type layers formed all have rather high resistivities (1 ohm or greater) with very weak n type conductivity characteristics. These junctions were apparently produced by radiation damage induced donor sites and might more appropriately be called p-i junctions. Only the phosphorus and boron bombardments have shown evidence of impurity or chemical doping effects. Post bombardment annealing has been done on the various bombarded cells with rather striking improvement in characteristics occurring in the case of the boron bombarded n type silicon blanks. It is felt that, with further effort, this technique may be quite applicable to molecular electronics and other types of semiconductor device preparation using programmed phosphorus and boron ion bombardment."
"The logarithmic region of the forward characteristics of p-n silicon junction diodes at low currents is utilized to give accurate logarithmic conversion of current into voltage over a range of eight decades at room temperature. A chopper type d.c. amplifier is used to measure the logarithmic voltage without drawing an appreciable current. It consists of a specially developed low-leakage balanced diode chopper, a high-gain a.c. amplifier and a demodulator. The voltage output of the demodulator is fed back to the chopper. Temperature compensation is achieved by a thermistor element in the feedback loop and the resulting thermal drift is less than 0.005 decade per degree centigrade over most of the amplifier range. Many of the available types of diodes were found to exhibit irregular and considerable deviations from accurate logarithmic relationship."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"At the outset let me say that plasma physics and controlled fusion is still a tricky, uncertain science, with many open questions and lots of room for opinion. What I shall give will accordingly be just one man's view of the present state of research on controlled fusion. One way to discuss the situation is to break it into two parts, which are in actuality only partly independent. The two parts are the problem of heating and the problem of containment. Adopting this course, let me first discuss heating."
"This paper briefly reviews advances in magnetohydrodynamic power generation with particular reference to both land-based and aerospace designs. A brief comment is also made on aerodynamic advances."
"A theory for the current induced in semiconductor diodes by fast neutron radiation is presented. Experimental verification of the theory is given for silicon rectifiers. It is shown that the signals induced by fast neutrons from a fission source are approximately 7% and 0.2% as large as the gamma ray induced signals for silicon and germanium devices respectively."
"Cobalt glass dosimeters, normally used to measure gamma ray and electron fields, have been used to measure gamma ray and coexistent thermal neutron fields in the presence of a fast neutron field. The dosimeter is darkened in proportion to the energy deposited and this darkening is calibrated in known gamma ray and thermal neutron fields. A three-glass sandwich was used to distinguish the effects of gamma rays and thermal neutrons. The sensitivity of the glass to various energy gamma and x-rays is presented. A simple spectrophotometer is used to measure the transmission of light through the glass dosimeter."
"The stability criteria for a nonlinear reactor control system is developed. The control system contains two nonlinearities; an on-off relay and gear backlash. A describing function for the nonlinearities is generated in terms of shim rate, relay deadband, and gear backlash. The describing function is then used to generate the stability criteria."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"An application is given of mechanical and electrical simplified relay logic techniques for simulating a solid state computer. The basic requirements of any simulation system are simplicity, reliability, maintainability, flexibility, and realism which can be readily satisfied, in most cases, by the use of relay logic techniques. Modular construction of twelve relays prewired to a connector facilitate changing a programmed sequence at the training instructor's discretion. The relay logic is the nucleus of this type of simulation system."
"This paper presents a brief outline of the various solid-state energy conversion concepts currently under development by the Air Force. Much of the paper will be on the developments in solar cells and thermoelectrics with only a brief look at piezoelectrics, pyroelectrics, ferroelectrics, the Nernst effect and nuclear photon conversion. These conversion concepts are discussed from the stand-point of present capabilities to satisfy aerospace vehicle electrical power needs together with the author's estimates of possible performance if the concepts are completely developed. The energy sources considered are solar, nuclear, chemical and acoustic with emphasis on solar and nuclear. Research and development is being accomplished in the areas of solid-state energy conversion today because these materials and conversion mechanisms are most nearly ideal for unattended operation in space. That is: they are relatively static (no moving parts); are non-volatile exceptat high temperatures; are reasonably resistant to the space environment; and generally have long lifetime possibilities. The long range objective of the applied research programs in these areas is to acquire the technology for obtaining reliable, highly efficient, long lifetime, light weight, and low cost energy conversion systems for aerospace vehicles. The lifetime requirements are for essentially unattended operation for two years by 1965 and for five to ten years by 1970. Generally high watts/lb, reliability, and long lifetime are the primary objectives, and efficiency and cost are of lesser importance."
"The present state-of-the-art for thermionic energy converters and the basic operating characteristics of various designs are reviewed. Problem areas faced by designers of converters are identified. Recent development trends are pointed out. It is concluded that extensive more basic and applied research must be accomplished in thermionic technology and high temperature materials before practical application of thermionic energy converters will be possible. Discussions are presented without resort to highly technical details or complicated theoretical analysis. A comprehensive bibliography of pertinent literature is included."
"The purpose of this paper is to consider the capabilities and major limitations of the nickel-cadmium, sivler-cadmium, and silver-zinc alkaline secondary battery systems. The considerations of each of these systems are based on analysis and development work currently underway. The primary mode of operation considered is an orbital or charge-discharge type cycling at various temperature and depths of discharge. A brief failure analysis resume' is also presented."
"There have been numerous changes in component characteristics during the last five years. These changes have created many problems for both the designer and the user. The efforts of management, both private industry and government, to focus attention on these problems have created a new discipline, Reliability. This paper will demonstrate that it is within the capability of every organization, large or small, to have a good reliability organization at a reasonable cost."
"The system is designed to provide a large measure of test operation control and a disciplined means for test collection and data reduction. It achieves this organization by arranging all data within a fixed format so that all points in the test complex are essentially designated by fixed positions within the format itself. Operation is synchronized by a central instrumentation system, but the individual operating subsystems are largely self-contained. Extensive self-checking features are included to minimize down time. Redundancy is incorporated through all critical paths to further reduce down time."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Evolution of this conference and exhibit was directed by the former Aerospace Transportation Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers at a meeting in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania during the week of June 26, 1961. Immedieately thereafter, the Washington Section of AIEE was asked to co-sponsor the meeting in conjunction with the Aerospace Support Systems Committee of AIEE, the resultant being the formation of a conference committee as delineated on the letterhead. Due to the quantity of subject matter relative to aerospace support that would be applicable to this conference, and the interrelated fields of technical skills associated with this area, participation by other technical societies was invited."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"An FM-CW radar is described which simultaneously furnishes three-dimensional velocity and absolute altitude information. The velocity is measured by means of a low frequency FM-CW Doppler technique and the altitude information by means of phase comparison on one of the sidebands of the received spectrum. The optimum radar parameters required for the two functions are completely compatible. Use of the first order sideband permits operation of the system down to zero feet altitude. Offset reference frequency techniques and narrow band leakage elimination techniques permit system operation through zero speed and to negative speeds. Contrary to conventional FM-CW altimeters, the altitude measurement technique is unaffected by amplitude noise and by frequency (Doppler) noise due to vehicle motion. The radar technique is particularly applicable to helicopters, VTOL aircraft and lunar landing vehicles, and possibly also to satellite rendezvous. Actual flight test results have demonstrated the feasibility of the radar technique."
"In this paper the author has used the theory of zero crossings of random processes to analyze the errors due to receiver noise of a triangularly modulated FM-CW Radar. Curves are given that can be used to determine the percentage error in the range measurement as a function of signal-to-noise ratio, provided the shape of the noise spectrum is known. The method of analysis is illustrated by predicting the performance of a particular radar, and is checked by comparing the calculations to system measurements. The theory can be used in the preliminary design stages to optimize the receiver design."
"The design and construction of a small light-weight anechoic chamber for testing the first orbiting rendezvous radar on a launching pad are described. Performance and weight considerations were evaluated and a practical compromise was reached. A chamber capable of measuring L-band radar angular accuracy and weighing only slightly more than 100 pounds was the result. Radar RF go, no-go checks can now be performed on the launching pad or in other locations with a low cost device."
"The needs of Radar Tracking Ranges are ever changing, and present new challenges to the Systems Integration Engineer. This paper describes the concept and design of shelters and associated support equipment which form a part of a Transportable Radar System. The transportable concept is a solution to many Radar Range problems due to its inherent flexibility. The Radar Operator is not forgotten; the paper discusses how human factors influenced the design."
"The focusing properties of star-tracker tubes can be summarized by a quantity, called rise distance, which measures the sharpness of transition between light and dark areas. Measurements showing the values achieved to date are presented. It is then discussed how shortcomings of the rise distance can be overcome by proper choice of the data handling process, i.e., the output circuitry. It is pointed out that the tubes can be operated either in the star tracker or in the dissector mode; one or the other may be preferable for a given task."
"From the weapon's release point in the aircraft to its final burst point at the target, winds may considerably affect a weapon's trajectory. Aircraft bombing-navigational systems must compensate for such wind effects in order to achieve accurate solutions to the bombing problem. Such compensation is provided by a recently-designed analog device called the Differential Ballistic Wind Computer (DBWC). The DBWC furnishes automatic and continuous corrections for \"differential ballistic wind\" (DBW), without loss of any of the other capabilities of the bombing-navigational system. DBW is the vector difference between ballistic wind (BW) and wind at aircraft altitude (W). (BW is that constant wind velocity which has the same effect upon the weapon's trajectory as the net resultant of all actual wind velocities encountered during the trajectory.) These corrections for DBW are supplied in the form of two DBWC output signals, XDBN and XDBE, which represent the north-sourth and east-west corrections, respectively. XDBN and XDBE are used to vary aircraft heading and time-to-go during system Bomb mode operation, thereby providing a more accurate bomb drop. A distinguishing feature of DBWC circuitry is that it computes the DBW components by modifying a preset partial ballistic wind (BWP) by the product of a preset wind weighting factor (aw) and wind at aircraft altitude (W). The resulting DBW components are resolved about aircraft ground track, and the resolved signals are eventually converted into the corresponding north-south and east-west range signals."
"To determine the forces and moments on movable jet vanes immersed into the exhaust flame of a large solid rocket motor, and to determine the resultant forces and moments upon the motor-missile configuration, two multi-component internal strain-gage floating-frame balances were designed and integrated into the vane actuation systems. These balances provided an accurate, economical, trouble-free multi-component force measurement system which was readily integrated into an existing static motor firing program. The combined average error of the balance data is within ±5.5% for a 99.7% confidence interval. A 1401 computer program based upon equivalent in-place balance calibration results was prepared to reduce the static motor firing data parameters to engineering units. The design and calibration considerations for a specialized balance design and general design considerations for all multi-component force measurement systems are discussed in this paper."
"In the static testing of large solid rocket motors, particularly those equipped with a form of steering system, a multiple degree-of-freedom test fixture is normally employed. This paper discusses multi-component test fixtures within a basic conceptual framework. A qualitative description of the specific form of mechanical system used is given. The choice of force cell measurement devices and associated isolators used with multi-component test fixtures is described. Conventional static and dynamic systems calibrations to support accuracy considerations are determined. A discussion of the dynamic considerations in multi-component test data analysis and reduction processes including digital data compensation techniques for improving the quality of force information, derived from the multi-component test fixture environment, are suggested."
"In the captive testing of conventional solid rocket motors, a large number of fundamental physical measurements are normally implemented. These include the determination of instantaneous motor force, pressure, temperature, deflection, acceleration and electrical power data associated with the particular motor configuration. In the majority of applications, however, the motor performance indicators of most general interest are not measured directly, but are calculated from these basic data. Thus, for example, motor specific impulse is computed from given instantaneous values of measured thrust, pressure and weight parameters. All physical measurements are subject to inaccuracies, i.e., even the most sophisticated data acquisition system will necessarily inject discrepancies into the measured data. Hence, the mechanisms through which errors inherent in the measured quantities affect the accuracy of the calculated ballistic parameters are of extreme practical importance and must be quantitatively defined. At the Aerojet-General Corporation, an intensive and continuing analysis of overall measurement system errors (through rigorous analytical and experimental techniques) has permitted the statistical characterization of the error parameters within the framewcrk of each current large scale motor development program. Based upon these data and for a specific ballistic parameter computational routine, an extensive error analysis is required to deduce the errors associated with the computed performance parameters. Because of the nonlinearities and interactions inherent within the ballistic computations, a Monte Carlo technique is invoked."
"Since the Navy Space Surveillance System operates continuously, there is a large yearly expenditure for recording paper. It was suggested that the recorders be turned on only during a satellite \"pass\" providing enough signal delay could be introduced so that the recorders could overcome their starting inertia. The requirement for delaying the composite (IRIG) FM telemetering signals from a Space Surveillance site by one-half second was fulfilled by converting the phone line frequencies into sound, which is then transmitted through a pipe long enough to provide the desired delay, and then reconverted into electrical signals for transmission over the line. The results of the experiment were satisfactory."
"This paper presents the unique features of the nuclear power plant which makes its use superior to other types of power plants for many field applications. Particular emphasis is placed upon utilization at tracking stations and remote launch sites. The PM-1 Nuclear Power Plant at Sundance Air Force Station, Wyoming, is described to illustrate a field application."
"This paper describes a sintered plate nickel cadmium battery system, including charge and discharge regulating circuitry capable of delivering 8 kilowatts of power within a 27.4 to 31 volt dc limit, and discusses the characteristics of these batteries in these applications. Flexibility for complete or temporary power interruptions are provided. Nickel cadmium batteries have been chosen for these operations because of (1) their capability of delivering high levels of current from small packages and (2) their proven high reliability in extended service. To optimize the performance of the nickel cadmium battery requires controlled charging profiles. Generally, energy must be restored to the battery at 140% of the discharge ampere hour rating. Circuitry for automatically accomplishing this charge are described. The regulation of output voltage between 31 and 27.4 volts was deemed critical in this application. End cell switching techniques and control methods are described for improving the voltage regulation of the system under conditions of high and low load values."
"A solid-state switching static alternator, based on the duty cycle modulation principle, has been developed. High-speed transient response and a 0 to 100% output voltage regulation range are accomplished with simple circuitry that utilizes few components. Significant problems, such as transformer losses and reverse d-c source current, are analyzed, and a derivation of design procedures for the output filter is made, taking the effect of the load impedance into account. A bread-board model of the duty cycle modulation alternator (DCMA), which operates at 71% efficiency at 250-watt output power, has been built and tested."
"Orbiting passive communication satellites cannot exploit radar target structures, for the reflected energy must cover the entire globe. Each orbital altitude dictates its maximum tolerable gain. Structures with large plane surfaces have too narrow beams and intolerable scintillations. Only spheres studded with several thousand retrodirective elements of wide scan angle eliminate scintillations and are tolerable in weight. Investigations of corner reflectors as retrodirective elements revealed, only small (3λ) three dimensional right angle corners are feasible. The overall efficiency in a spherical arrangement is limited by sidescattering to about 12 db."
"This paper discusses the techniques utilized in the design of a digital communications system that provide continuous system monitoring during operation, indicates a faulty replaceable assembly, and switches to redundant sections when necessary. Also, the special test sets that provide the capability of fault isolation in a faulty assembly to a small repairable subassembly are discussed. The monitoring and test capabilities provide a means of rapid repair of the system thus maintaining communications with minimum down time and spares."
"One of the problems facing today's avionic systems maintenance is that too often a system is designed and built before an effective maintenance concept has been finalized. This paper presents a logical evolution for automatic checkout equipment. The vital features of a maintenance and design concept are also presented. In addition, qualitative results are described that demonstrate the importance of establishing these concepts."
"This paper reviews the past seven years' developments and trends evident in the design and use of lighted display and control as a new and distinct tool for man's communication with today's elaborate military systems. It discusses essentials of good design practice, and notes the capabilities of signaling and command available in today's devices. Note is taken of major design considerations and the impact of certain decisions made in design and in application of the performance of these components."
"This paper discusses the techniques used in testing digital signals of a subsystem interface at a distance of 1200 feet. It shows the development of a hardline system which overcomes the problems of propagation delay and poor cable response to high frequency pulse signals. The system evolves as a three piece unit including a cable driver located at the space vehicle, a remote unit located at the gantry and a control and readout unit located at the blockhouse."
"Some servo control devices are more conveniently tested outside the systems they control. This paper presents a survey of some of the most promising methods of testing such devices, and concludes that open loop testing by reproducing an input function recorded on magnetic tape and observing response can reliably separate acceptable and faulty units. Equipment designed to perform the test is economical and fully automatic. In the space age, when servo-systems operate in exotic environments and control large amounts of power, it is a formidable job to simulate the operating conditions of the complete system for tests of each component. It is desirable and convenient to test these components as isolated \"black boxes\", supplying only the power and environmental conditions required for the item under test."
"In working with checkout equipments for weapon systems, it becomes apparent that a new approach to solving the problems of status testing, fault isolation, and failure prediction is required. The approach which this paper proposes is to effectively utilize the side effects which have bothered the system designers in the past. This paper points out that the relative advantages of this approach outweigh the disadvantages. It shows that there are a number of effects available for use but that research and development efforts on detectors and interpretation techniques are required. This paper further suggests that these techniques can be applied to the checkout of mechanical and electromechanical systems."
"A new method for tracking transfer functions is described based on Laplace Transformations over the past. This method is very promising for in-flight dynamic checkout. It tracks transfer functions of systems continuously and without delay, while they are in operation. Special stimuli are not needed. The only storage required is contained in transformation filters which are either passive capacitor-resistor networks or memory locations in a digital computer."
"This paper describes the criteria by which the quality of Aerospace Ground Equipment is judged. It outlines the origin of the basic requirements for which AGE is designed and the conditions in which it must operate. The paper gives some examples of typical conditions. The need for conformance to the logistic conditions and operational methods of the launch vehicle customer is described. The unusually high demand on reliability is outlined by an example. The influence of hypergolic propellants on the design of AGE is shown. The sources of the AGE and the various steps in which AGE is tested--as well as the typical functions--are described."
"This paper discusses the increasing importance of the transfer of intelligence and data from the military user to the contractor and its effect upon the development of a system or product. The discussion considers significant events in a typical program from conception through operation and explores the advantages and disadvantages of existing methods for obtaining this feedback. Recommendations are made which would ensure improved use of this data on the system delivered to the military."
"This paper presents a new approach to the use of preferred numbers in standardizing component part values. This approach is based on selected decade series based on the probable variation of the component at the end of its useful life rather than on the present practice of arbitrary choice based on the initial tolerance or no producers risk. Significant reductions of stockable items have been achieved using this technique."
"This paper presents a technique of system description which is a significant aid in understanding complex processes and the systems designed for their implementation. As its name implies, the Operational Sequence Technique may be used to recognize any process to be mechanized by a system design as being composed of a number of operations which combine sequentially and simultaneously to achieve the functions of the system and, hence, meet the system's objectives. By concentrating upon the identification of the sequential nature of process operations, a flow chart can be constructed which graphically depicts the system operation. The construction of such flow charts at successive levels of abstraction provides a unique means for considering system details, while maintaining perspective, and for defining system interfaces and functional tradeoffs."
"Management control and monitoring techniques employed in the ACCD-C Engineering Department of RCA are practical for effective and scientific management of all types of programs and provide positive assurance of meeting time, cost, and performance commitments. Application of these techniques is a self-imposed discipline that extends to all activities in the Engineering Department in a uniform manner and ensures proper \"control awareness\" by engineers and engineering supervision."
"The purpose of this paper is to provide management personnel with an understanding of the Department of Defense - Industry Improved Data Interchange program and its possible impact upon one area of military - industry relations. Events leading up to the DOD decision to implement the IDI service test are discussed as well as the test results."
"This paper describes the AN/APN-l53 (V) Doppler Radar Set, which is a state-of-the-art self-contained navigation sensor that can be utilized in many types of aircraft. The techniques used in the APN-153 that are significant advances over other Doppler systems are discussed in detail. The U. S. Navy has selected the APN-153 to be used on many of its operational aircraft. This selection was made on the basis of extensive environmental and flight tests conducted by the Navy on the APN-153 in competition with systems of three other leading Doppler manufacturers."
"This paper presents a philosophy of system maintenance and the principles upon which it is based. Levels of maintenance and the different test program needs at these different levels are discussed. A case history of older Doppler System test equipments is presented, showing how and why the equipment evolved to its present state. A more detailed example is presented of a current support equipment program."
"The purpose of the paper is to examine the effects of natural radio noise upon the performance of ground antenna systems. The first part of the paper describes the spatial and spectral properties of the major sources of radio noise, and presents the results of a comprehensive program of machine computation of antenna temperature. In the second part of the paper, these results and those of a recently completed noise measurement program are used to evaluate the carrier-to-noise ratio at a ground receiving antenna which is tracking a space probe."
"An automatic technique for boresighting large aperture radar systems has been demonstrated and implemented. The technique uses the actively tracked Moon as a reference standard and achieves angular accuracies on the order of 0.1 mil using a simple error theory. The automatic reduction technique used for processing the large number of measurements is presented. The application of this technique to existing systems will allow accurate boresighting of these large aperture systems to a high degree of accuracy."
"This paper briefly reviews the fundamentals of phased array operation. Array systems are categorized as preamplifier and post-amplifier beam-forming techniques. The relative advantages and disadvantages of each are discussed, as are considerations in space applications. Several exemplary array antenna configurations are also discussed. Particular comment is made on the principal environmental considerations, especially as related to the application of an array antenna."
"This paper discusses the major problems encountered during an evaluation-concept study of a vertical assembly building for the huge Saturn V vehicle. One concept of a vertical assembly building is described with the primary problems encountered and their solutions discussed in detail. The solutions to these problems proved that this facility was feasible from both a design and construction standpoint. A vertical assembly building similar to the one described in this paper is currently being designed by an architectural-engineering firm for the Launch Operations Center, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Cape Canaveral, Florida."
"Umbilical arm design for the Saturn V vehicle is presented with emphasis on the arm servicing the S-IVB stage aft position. Arm criteria are outlined, followed by a description and operation of the launch equipment, in this order:the hinged, truss structure; the arm retraction system; the withdrawal mechanism; and the extension platform. Systems equipment and reliability, an important result of this work, will be substantiated by a rigorous testing program."
"This paper discusses problems of performing systems engineering in order to establish optimum and economical A. G. E. configurations in support of R & D missions in a multi-program, multicomplex environment. The combination of short lead-times, high launch rates and varied dynamic requirements of a large number of different yet simultaneous R & D operations provides a unique support situation. The problem has grown from support of the first successful orbiting vehicle in 1959 to last year's support of 36 successful launchings. The advantages of utilizing MIL-D-9412D to enhance systematic documentation of the A. G. E. system considerations and configuration will also be emphasized."
"Award of the NASA contract to Lockheed Missiles & Space Company for the RIFT (Reactor-In-Flight-Test) Program has given rise to some very interesting concepts for Ground Handling and Transportation Equipment. The RIFT, or nuclear powered, stage must undergo extensive testing at diverse geographic locations. This paper presents the sequence of handling and transfer operations starting at the Sunnyvale assembly plant at Moffett Field, California, and terminating at each of the test or launch sites. Concepts of major handling and transportation equipment will be discussed."
"This paper presents some of the most important considerations for selecting design winds and the corresponding forces for tall structures. Past practice in the construction industry is evaluated and recommendations made for future construction. Appropriate gust factors and shape factors are examined and equivalent static forces given with due emphasis on the possibility of dynamic effects."
"This paper introduces the Orbiting Geophysical Observatory Spacecraft and the electrical and mechanical checkout procedures and equipment used in its qualification and acceptance testing. The Integrated Systems Test approach incorporating semi-automatic test programming and spacecraft evaluation is described after disclosure of previous test cycles and the test program objectives. Specific tests on the attitude control, power, and communications and data handling spacecraft subsystem are discussed, with consideration of mechanical handling and test fixtures."
"This paper explains the problems associated with the determination of the requirements for the Ground Handling and Special Test Equipment for the UK-2/S-52 International Satellite. The spacecraft is instrumented with three main experiments for ionospheric research. Design methods that satisfy the requirements of the normal and special handling procedures that are encountered from the factory to the launch pad are detailed. Also, the integration, calibration, and confidence tests of the satellite and the special test equipment needed to perform these tests are discussed."
"This paper discusses the design and operation of a portable tester intended for sequentially checking out a missile ground support electrical system at an actual launch site in preparation for missile firing. It is possible to check out an entire electrical generating system, plus portions of the gas turbine drive control system, on a go, no-go basis, in a maximum of approximately 2 minutes, using the tester. Limitations on the tester's usability and problems encountered in coordinating the tester operation with the operation of the entire electrical system are also mentioned."
"Optical measurements of the reflecting surface of deep space probes have proven to be one of the best methods of maintaining the necessary surface accuracy required. This type of checkout equipment is a necessary system for any deep space probe. The present optical checkout systems need to be improved, and with sufficient research they can be."
"This paper is a discussion of the unique \"Precise Power\" requirements of ground support equipment and features of generators and regulators designed to meet these requirements. Graphical and numerical analysis clearly show that these requirements can best be met through special design of system components."
"The two-reaction theory of synchronous generators yields only qualitative results when applied to homopolar machines under load. Saturation has to be considered for more exact results. The method developed in two companion papers is used to find the airgap radial induction when the armature carries purely reactive balanced currents. The additional boundary conditions are explained and a computer program established. Numerical results were obtained for a 95 kvs. 115/200 volts, 3,300 cps, 40,800 rpm alternator. The results are shown in curves."
"The magnetic induction in homopolar alternators is found by a method developed in a companion paper. The mathematical procedure and the selection of the mesh system and the identification system for the different mesh points is explained. A computer program for the numerical solution by overrelaxation of the boundary value problem is developed and applied to a 95 KVA, 115/220V, 3,300 cps. 40,800 rpm. alternator. The results show the decrease of the airgap induction fundamentals with increased excitation."
"The partial differential equations of the potential and the boundary conditions of fields in highly saturated rotating machines at no-load are developed. These are expressed in finite difference form, and in the numerical solution the potentials and the permeabilities are over-relaxed alternately. The choice of a non-uniform system of meshes, and a method of identifying the numerical operations at the mesh points are given. Companion papers illustrate the application of the method."
"This paper reviews the problems of skid design for electronic equipment shelters, lists and evaluates possible skid system types, and suggests an approach for future designs."
"This paper discusses reliability project coordination and its responsibility to the management and administration function of the Autonetics Reliability Group. Duties of the Project Coordinator are enumerated and Flight Control Group responsibilities, as they relate to the realization of the tasks, are discussed. Included in the discussion of group responsibilities is an examination of failure recurrence prevention programs, design review, assessment of circuit operation, statistical analysis, logistic support, and formal reporting."
"A discussion of the planning, organization and direction of an effective reliability program to meet the needs of specific customers and specific program requirements. The applicability of selected reliability program elements is evaluated based on contract requirements. A unique approach to reliability program organization is presented along with recent trends in product assurance organization."
"A support system is not an end itself despite the fervent and emotional desires of today's support systems managers. Support systems managers and support personnel are, by definition, dependent on some other prime system that is designed and intended to accomplish a particular mission. Therefore, it becomes immediately obvious that support is relegated to the status of a secondary function and will, therefore, receive attention (and necessary funding) only after the prime system is reasonably under control. The purpose of this paper is to promulgate some ideas and suggestions, learned through experience, on the effective operation of a support manager in the present environment, regardless of the \"built in\" frustrations that exist."
"In this paper the aspects of program phasing which dictate the need for total configuration control are briefly reviewed with design and data interface and concurrency concept considerations. Basic elements and organizations of a configuration control system are described and integrated with program, project, and functional department management in synchronism with program objective milestones. The importance of acquisition, verification, compilation, and integration of data with timely release for shared use is emphasized. Stress is also placed on the development and preservation of evolution traceability, and the cross-sensitivity of change effects among design, data, schedules, and resources."
"This discussion has two major objectives: 1) To present a derivation of passive element electrical circuits for the Bernoulli-Euler Beam, the Timoshenko Beam and a beam on an elastic foundation. 2) To formulate the dynamics for two arbitrarily selected beam systems by direct use of the analog circuits. The analog circuits are force-current, velocity voltage electrical analogies which allow the study of transient, static and steady-state conditions. The beam systems considered are the cantilever beam and a beam with both ends clamped. Moreover, the numerical formulation requires only elementary circuit theory and is expressed in a format such that conventional iteration procedures can be used in calculating the resonant frequencies and mode shapes. The concepts presented here can be extended to efficiently analyze more complex structures such as plates, shells and conic sections."
"A significant portion of aerospace support facilities and equipment are being incorporated into hardened installations. This paper attempts to acquaint aerospace support designers with the various nuclear weapons effects and means of protecting against them. This is done in general avoiding technical complexities and using illustrations. It is the author's opinion that hardening requirements introduced at the onset of design would result in final products having significant superiority over standard items."
"The pneumatic placement process and its advantages of speed, flexibility and economy are reviewed. Various applications of the process to aerospace support are discussed. Details are given in regard to 1) \"hard\" refractories applied to launch pads and heat shields, 2) insulating refractory coatings which serve as protection for structural steel and other susceptible components, and 3) special refractory linings for containment of radioactive materials. The pneumatic placement process is described as being complex, involving many variables."
"The primary objective of this paper is to disseminate the results of a gelatin rigidization in-house research program and results of two Air Force research contracts concerning rigidization of structures via micro-encapsulated foam reactants or expandable self-rigidizing honeycomb. The significance of these research efforts is the Air Force will have the capability of automatically rigidizing expandable structures in an aerospace environment. A secondary objective was to show the relationship of these efforts to the overall expandable structure program."
"The piecewise linear method of nonlinear control systems analysis is developed by invoking an engineering oriented approach, rather than the classical mathematical treatment. A simple but formalistic procedure is suggested to facilitate the analytical investigations of a wide variety of control loops containing discontinuous nonlinearities."
"A system is described by means of which a drone can be automatically checked out and launched from a remote location over a period of less than 12 minutes from \"go-ahead\" by relatively low skilled personnel. The features of the system are its simplicity, the rapidity with which the complete sequence is accomplished and the ease of fault recognition. One of the more interesting design problems solved was the automatic control and monitoring of turbojet engine operation."
"This paper describes some of the present methods and future trends for checking operation of space vehicle subsystems. The limitations of many presently used checkout methods are emphasized. Some degree of imagination is used in describing conceivable future checkout methods; these represent a culmination of technical advances developed to date and an extrapolation of these advances into the future."
"Present aerospace electrical systems have not been designed for maximum maintainability, and no really effective maintainability program has yet been established in the industry. A definition of maintainability requirements for aircraft electrical systems and examples of recent efforts to reduce the maintainability cost of present electrical systems are given. Probable future designs are discussed and recommendations are given to establish a total maintainability program. It is suggested that each aircraft user establish a maintainability program, and actively participate in the writing of future procurement specifications."
"This paper will discuss the increasing need, development and finally the production units for precisely controlled variable speed drives. After outlining the basic needs for such equipment, two basic types of units and three specific needs, will be discussed in detail. The basic units that will be described are liquid cooled, constant torque, and air cooled, variable torque eddy current drive units. In the paper will be found a detailed discussion of the physical make up of each unit and the method used for obtaining precision control in any speed range."
"Procuring parts with a guaranteed reliability is a major problem to most equipment manufacturers today. Until the DARNELL recommendations are put into our military specifications and until vendors have qualified to supply to these requirements, the problem will still be with us. During this interim period, equipment manufacturers are preparing and procuring to their own individual specifications; each manufacturers' specification being different thereby imposing a tremendous burden on the part and component vendors."
"A statistical life test plan measuring compliance to a reliability standard often assumes a constant failure rate model on the premises that only time domain parameters are important and that both producer and consumer enter relatively constant risk plans. The authors contend that population domain parameters can introduce significant variations in both producer and consumer risks. In particular, they solve the variations of these risks as a function of sample size for the popular AGREE life test plan."
"A method is presented to approximate the inherent reliability of a single-degree-of-freedom system. The transfer function is used as a tool to define mechanical reliability as a function of mechanical failure modes. Primary application of the technique is to new transducer designs for initial design reviews."
"During the Pershing reliability testing program, corrosion was encountered on standard mounting hardware. Investigation revealed an extremely low level of compliance of incoming hardware to the plating thickness requirements of military and Martin specifications. Most proposed solutions would have required extensive documentation changes or additional facilities. None of the approaches directly affected the actual cause of the problem: standard mounting hardware vendors supplying material which does not meet purchase requirements. The following approach to the problem has therefore been initiated. 1. A general purchase description for sampling, inspection and test procedures for all standard mounting hardware has been prepared. 2. Samples of hardware from a cross-section of vendors have been ordered under this purchase description. 3. Hardware received under this program will be inspected for compliance with the drawing requirements and the special purchase description. Availability of hardware and cost increases will be analyzed."
"This paper contains some of the essential data of the oral presentation, which in turn summarizes the results of three years of work performed by the author in this field."
"This paper develops in considerable detail the physical picture of the behavior of brushless aircraft generating systems both in the steady state and in the transient state. It describes the little-known phenomenon of exciter-rectifier operation in three distinct modes, defines commutating reactance in terms of exciter machine paramaters, and provides data for calculating system performance."
"This paper discusses the design of a realload controller for an airborne four generator parallel system. In addition to providing an electric trim for the hydraulic constant speed drive governor, the controller transfer function is shaped to introduce the required compensation for parallel system stability. A lag-lead-lag transient function, having rather large time constants, is generated solely by using the control winding interactions of full wave magnetic amplifiers. This results in improved performance over wider temperature ranges than is practical with designs using resistor-capacitor networks."
"This paper describes an ac generating system designed for a twin jet executive aircraft. The system employs two variable frequency 9/21 kva generators to supply power for aircraft surface heating, fuel pumps, trim motor, and instruments. The system is unique in private executive aircraft in that it is automatic and employs static circuitry for the control and the conversion of variable frequency power to 400 cps constant frequency voltage for aircraft instruments."
"The impedance of feeders used with variable-speed and constant-frequency (VSCF) generating systems in airplanes is severely affected by the non-sinusoidal generator current and the airplane frame. The above effect was experimentally investigated for frequencies from 1500 to 3500 cps. Data obtained are necessary for the analysis of system transient and steady-state behavior. Impedance curves were constructed as an aid in the determination of the optimum configuration and location of feeder cables for VSCF systems."
"Operational achievements and trends which influenced the design of aircraft manual and automatic flight control systems are briefly reviewed. The general features of current designs are presented, and the importance of control feel as a design parameter is cited. Present day experimental methods pertaining to aircraft control feel characteristics are noted, and indicated needs in this area of research are defined. Equipment developed to meet these needs is described and its first application is discussed."
"This paper outlines the procedures, criteria and evaluations that were considered in the development of a power generation and distribution system for a mobile air traffic control system. By conducting the study in conjunction with other study groups charged with the responsibility of designing and selecting the electronic equipment necessary for this system, a completely compatible generation and distribution system was developed. Even though developed for this particular application, the power system is sufficiently flexible to be adaptable to other portable electronic systems. The research reported in this paper was sponsored by the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories, Office of Aerospace Research, under contract AF 19(604)8015."
"This paper presents an approach for determining fluid temperature levels, types of fluids, source of cooling, and design requirements of hydromechanical constant speed drives for high performance aircraft applications. The compatibility of current CSD design, materials, and present fluids is illustrated by discussion of a typical supersonic aircraft installation and the associated thermal considerations. The significant conclusion is that present hydromechanical CSD design will meet the requirements of the SST application."
"The advent of VTOL aerospace vehicles has imposed a serious problem on ground support organizations, that is, to develop a technique for rapidly preparing previously unprepared remote landing sites for VTOL aircraft. This paper summarizes background investigations and the current in-house research conducted by the Air Force for the formulation of rapid site preparation concepts. A J-85 jet engine with afterburner was mounted in a test rig so that it could be run in a vertical position to simulate actual VTOL landing and take-off exhaust effects. Tests were conducted on organic materials, rapid setting cements, and metallic mats. Temperature and static pressures were recorded. It was found that certain materials could resist 2,400°F temperature for short periods of time; debris ingestion into engine would be a problem for VTOL aircraft; and application procedures for these materials are in need of further development."
"This paper examines the new role of system testing, which has evolved to meet the complex requirements of modern systems. Inadequacies of the traditional approach to system testing are briefly discussed. The application of the new system testing concept is demonstrated through description of a large system test program. In addition, the major activities required to construct and implement such a test program are analyzed."
"The success of future manned interplanetary space ventures will depend heavily upon reliable in-flight maintenance despite the spectacular progress in spacecraft component and system reliability. The design of efficient on-board checkout equipment and the development of relatively simple automatic maintenance techniques are requisites for the security of the long-range flights now planned. This paper presents a method for increasing the reliability of space systems through on board checkout equipment and selective automatic maintenance. This concept is called CEFOAM (Checkout Equipment For On-Board Automatic Maintenance)."
"VADE is an Automatic Digital Data Reduction System used to process a space vehicles telemetry data to GO/NO-GO limits in real-time. This paper compares VADE with conventional data processing techniques, and describes the hardware configuration, computer control programming, and the operational features of the VADE system."
"This paper discusses some of the design interfaces in the missile and ground support equipment, particularly the launcher, that must be considered if the tactical weapon system is to have the maximum effectiveness for the least expenditure. Typical illustrations of the trade-offs involved in surface-to-surface, surface-to-air, and air-to-surface weapon systems are presented, based upon preliminary design experience derived from many missile weapon system proposals made to all three military services."
"Differential equations are derived to obtain analytically the reliability and mean life of a simple system with redundancy and replacement. They are solved for a simple case. The reliability and mean life of the system in more complex cases is obtained using a Monte-Carlo method. An excellent agreement between the two methods is obtained in the simple case. Increases by a factor of five in system mean life over the mean life of a single machine are obtainable using a simple replacement policy."
"This paper examines and discusses past, present and future considerations of self-repairing products. Descriptive terms are carefully defined for seven possible degrees of self-repair. Basic design requirements to achieve the fourth and fifth degrees of self-repair are described. Reliability enhancing, endurance and life considerations of the various degrees of self-repair are reviewed. Current work being performed in the broad field of self-repair is cited and briefly discussed. The paper concludes with the hope that more definitive attention will be given the predestined field of self-repair to achieve higher reliability in our products."
"This paper describes a computer simulation program developed to aid in estimating the over-all system reliability and down time of the 600-foot radio telescope that was being designed for the U. S. Navy. The simulation program was designed to provide early estimates of the system reliability and down time and also to provide for periodically updating and refining the estimates as improved input data became available."
"A discussion of a method of reliability prediction, particularly useful when confronted by space applications and other cycle-significant systems, is presented. Examples of data presentation and prediction calculations are given. The various sources of test data and their relation to the mission profile are described."
"The control of the operational status of aerospace systems is of paramount importance to both our military and civilian aerospace programs. To establish and maintain the operational capability of an aerospace system to be ready at any demand time (random or scheduled), it is necessary to determine and evaluate its status in order to select and execute maintenance actions which will, in turn, improve the operational capability of the system. Consequently, readiness testing and replacement-repair actions are necessary, even though test severity, errors, frequency, duration and coverage as well as repair durations and uncertainties all influence the probability that the system will be ready for use when demanded. To relate the effects of these realistic factors to system readiness, a conceptual framework has been formulated which provides an apparently endless series or hierarchy of status control models. Progressively more complicated models have been developed which include the effects of imperfect maintenance, \"man-in-the-loop\", tolerance limit tradeoffs, and checkout equipment designs. In general, these models have been and will continue to be important for structuring the evaluation and predictive effort regarding present systems as well as for providing better standards and parametric tradeoffs for the preliminary design of new aerospace systems."
"This paper formulates algorithms for computer mechanization of task sequencing and performance evaluation in flight simulators. The selection of tasks proceeds on a real-time dynamic basis as a function of the student's (flight crew) performance and his specific level of experience. A procedural model (environment for the task-sequencer), dealing with in-flight emergency tasks, is used as a basis for the algorithms. Simulation of the techniques and comparison with standard methods has resulted in their recommendation for future flight simulators."
"When training equipment is designed for today's high speed and complex weapon systems, simple techniques can be used to increase the trainer effectiveness and lower equipment costs. By completing a detailed analysis of the performance specifications, the engineer strives to design a unit that will provide optimum training. This paper describes three detail design problems which occurred during the design of operational and maintenance training equipment for a missile weapon system. The solutions to these design problems, including standardization of simulation units, the control of rapid sequencing and the introduction of planned malfunctions, improved trainer effectiveness."
"Display and control techniques associated with the rendezvous of a spacecraft launched into an earth orbit in or about the same plane of a previously orbited target vehicle were investigated. In order to acquire representative data and conditions, an analog computer providing for real time studies in six degrees of freedom, and a simulated spacecraft cockpit with displays and controls were mechanized. Target range and bearing information was programmed by the computer while the operator in the cockpit made the necessary changes in orbital velocity to accomplish near docking. The space vehicle's motion and rates were presented in a variety of display configurations to allow evaluation of the operator's ability to successfully reduce the range and rate of closure parameters with minimum fuel consumption. Included in the experimental display configurations were indicators with linear and quasi-logarithmic scales, edge reading and computed program meters and integrated oscilloscope presentations using quickened techniques. Motion and control equations, as well as the system block diagram of the simulation are shown in this paper. The data obtained during the simulation can serve to illustrate the relative workability of selected groups of displays and controls and demonstrates that an operator can control the rendezvous maneuvers using such preferred groups of displays."
"This paper describes a three-month design study of a device capable of mounting a spacecraft for demonstration and training in dynamic performance of spacecraft control systems. After briefly stating the objectives of the study, the analysis and conclusions of an investigation of each of five separate systems are discussed. Finally, a brief description is given of a detailed analysis of the most favorable system."
"This paper discusses the various configurations which rotary converter and inverter sets might assume as major functional units within larger systems. Included is the description of various generator types, as well as excitation and regulation systems. An analysis of typical specifications and performance capabilities, as relate primarily to 400 cps output sets, is presented. This general discussion should be useful in providing the reader insight into considerations important for proper application of these rotary units."
"This paper describes a static frequency changer which accepts a variable voltage and frequency input, and produces regulated 3-phase 400 cps at 20 kva. An important feature allows connection of any number of frequency changers in parallel, load division being automatically controlled. Auxiliary functions are provided including short-circuit current limiting, output voltage transient suppression, and protection. Both electrical and mechanical characteristics of production equipment demonstrate the inherent advantages of this power conversion approach."
"Herein described is the successful design and development of a 30 KVA, modified MIL-G-6099A a.c. power generating system comprised of an oil-cooled \"Secsyn\" (stationary-exciter, synchronous) brushless generator operating in a 700°F ambient and its wide speed range (4600-11000 rpm) 230°F-environment, air-cooled static-exciter control system. The development of these components, it is hoped, have provided another step in the advancement of the \"state-of-the-art\" in the field of high temperature a.c. power generating systems."
"This paper discusses superconductivity and the related Meissner effect in relation to electric power generators. Both effects have been suggested for use in improving electrical devices through reduction of friction and other losses, weight, and/or volume. The study described in this paper is analytic and preliminary in nature and without test data, but indicates that large superconductive power generators offer a good potential for future application."
"This paper discusses some of the requirements which must be met by motors for aerospace applications, and presents an integrated approach to the design of a complete line of machines to meet these needs. Work carried out during the design study, design integration, and final design phases of the program is described."
"This paper includes a discussion of choice of coolants in the design of nuclear space power plants. Among the specific problems discussed are loss of coolant through meteoroid penetration, compatibility between coolant and construction materials at high temperatures, probability of damage by meteoroids and fabrication problems associated with large, lightweight, hermetically sealed structures which must be packageable, assembled in space and launched into orbit."
"This paper discusses the ground handling system for hydrogen, subcooled to the liquid-solid state. The various phases of ground handling such as production, storage, transfer and servicing are explained. The problems to be experienced in each phase of the handling system are discussed. The present state-of-the-art, which is rather limited, is also reviewed."
"This paper describes the development of a simple, effective method of electrolyte concentration control for the Allis-Chalmers Capillary Membrane fuel cell. The method, designated as Vapor Pressure Control, operates on the change in electrolyte vapor pressure which occurs over an operable range of electrolyte concentrations. Stability of cell operation with the method is shown theoretically and is verified by tests on two four-cell modules for durations up to 113 hours."
"This paper describes and evaluates the two types of electrical equipment - purged or pressurized and explosion-proof - that may be considered for use in hydrogen hazardous areas, such as those at missile sites. Included is a discussion of the properties and potential hazards of hydrogen. There is also a brief description of intrinsically safe systems. The merits of pressurized and explosion-proof systems are compared in detail, and new developments are described. Finally, it is shown why new explosion-proof electrical equipment designed specifically for Class I, Group B, Division 1 (hydrogen) areas is the more feasible, from both technical and economic standpoints."
"Study of the effects of maintenance on missile reliability is facilitated by the development of an analytical model of the maintenance cycle. Variation of the model parameters determines how inspection, test, and repair actions of the maintenance process modify the lot reliability of a missile collection."
"Recently there has been increased interest in the use of computer-controlled testing equipment at static test facilities and prelaunch checkout areas as well as at manufacturing locations. LMSC has designed, built and operated such a system for over two and one half years. During the early phases of the Polaris program, an impending need was already apparent. The anticipated high rates of production would require extensive personnel and equipment for system and subsystem testing. Could automation alleviate this problem within reasonable economic limits? Also, sought was a quality of testing consistent with the degree of reliability being designed into the missile, and a means for providing accurate and reliable test data for design-improvement feedback and missile system reliability analysis. Lockheed design personnel felt strongly that the solution to these problems was a flexible automated testing system under the control of a stored program general purpose digital computer but it was necessary to minimize the cost of the control computer. Two steps were taken to accomplish this: A small test-oriented drum memory general purpose computer was designed and built by Lockheed, and a most significant advancement for that day, the testing system was organized so that one computer could be time shared among eight testing stations. The digital computer, located in a central control set, controls the operation of remote test consoles and automatically evaluates missile systems, subsystems and modules."
"On a given missile range, it may be necessary to perform Radio Frequency tests on missiles or space vehicles. If there are many complexes on the launch base, RF transmissions from a complex may interfere with the RF tests on another complex. If RF facilities external to the complex must be used for all RF tests, only one complex at a time may perform RF checkout procedures. A requirement may also exist that dictates all RF transmissions must be secure from reception outside the launch complex. An RF checkout system must then be designed to meet these requirements. Such a system has been designed by the Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, AGE Division, Van Nuys, California. It is known as the RF Closed Loop System. It was designed to checkout VHF FM/FM telemetry and S-Band tracking and command systems in the Agena Vehicle. The RF Closed Loop System includes complete recording capability for TM Video signal storage and permanent records of all quantities associated with vehicle RF transmissions. The system is not necessarily limited to monitoring VHF FM/FM telemetry and S-Band tracking and command systems. It may be changed to accommodate any TM or command system by changing the blockhouse monitoring equipment, such as receivers and other demodulating equipment. One limitation is the frequency bandwidth of the long-run transmission lines. The basic concept of non-radiation of RF transmission outside the launch complex until launch and its development into hardware is the main premise of this paper."
"In this paper, the future need of incorporating failure prediction in conjunction with our space program is established by indicating the limitation of present GO/NO-GO type testing. Presented are advantages of employing continuous monitoring particularly adaptable to lengthy, interplanetary flights and manned vehicles in parking orbits. These advantages are illustrated by many examples some of which allow component failure prediction simultaneously with normal subsystem operation. It is emphasized that additional research is required before some of the continuous monitoring techniques described can be adapted to specific subsystems. However, it is pointed out that this would seem to be warranted in the light of the lives that would be saved and the reduction in mission aborts that could be realized in our future space program by means of failure prediction."
"A possible technique and the attending software needs for advanced computer controlled checkout equipment, based on transfer properties, are presented in this paper. By employing the transfer function, single measurements can be used to designate the status of relatively complex entities and equipment descriptive matrices can be readily formed. In many cases, such an analysis allows for deeper piece-part fault localization than would be possible from test terminals alone. Matrix manipulations are used to perform tests, localize faults and predict performance. A hierarchical listing of matrices is used to give the computer a description of the unit under test. In addition, the problem of providing a practical method of solving problems under access points restrictions has also been taken into account. Based on these restrictions and on the proposed mathematical tools, a program flow chart is shown to outline these functions. Table-updating (learning) features are incorporated into the program. Essentially, the program consists of a man-written executive program and subroutines which are employed by a computer to derive the actual checkout program used by the checkout computer. This goal is accomplished by applying, under computer control, specific parameters to general routines. The stimuli selection is accomplished by the computer by cross-referencing given restrictions against circuit type and functional data. In formulating the checkout technique, both man-performed and machine-performed checkout processes were examined in order to combine the desirable features of each into an optimum technique."
"This paper presents some of the more common failure modes of electrical connectors and describes three basic qualification tests used by military contractors. It outlines design criteria essential for increased reliability of cylindrical pin and socket contacts, and relates these to users' needs. Included is a discussion of the new \"floating plate\" configuration, specifically designed to meet these criteria. New approaches to contact evaluation are detailed."
"The note provides some direct calculations on which to base a control procedure for the reliability of systems that can be built up from various arrangements of series and parallel subsystems. Its application is intended to situations where a fully assembled system can not be tested as such, and where there is available only attribute test data on the components of the system. The reliability of an arbitrary system is often representable as some mathematical function of the form F (p1, p2, ... pn) where the p's denote binomial parameters or success probabilities associated with the components of the system. We take as observables the corresponding pˆ's representing attribute test data on the components (we are considering situations in which fully assembled system tests are precluded). We then consider the associated function of random variables Fˆ (pˆ1, pˆ2, ... pˆn) for certain more or less typical systems, that is, systems built up from various series and parallel arrangements of components. The control procedure is then based on some directly computed statistical properties of Fˆ."
"The introduction to this paper motivates a simple mathematical model for catastrophic failure, based on solid state diodes (or vacuum tube grids, relay solenoids) shorting or opening permanently at some time after gate operation has commenced. Based on the assumption that a given copy can fail only in a manner within the scope of this model, it is unnecessary to check each output for every input in order to establish with certainty that the copy is in fact providing the intended combinational logic. A small subset of inputs is in general sufficient to provide \"go, no-go\" information with 100% confidence; and after such a subset or checkup is determined, the problem of which inputs to administer for check out of a given copy of the prototype, is solved once and for all. The main results of this paper center around a shortcut procedure to obtain a \"reasonably small\" checkup for any given prototype, with considerably less effort than by exhaustive analysis. The penalty for this computational efficiency is that checkups so obtained will occasionally not be absolutely minimal. The shortcut is applicable to any switching function: however it is sensible to obtain checkups only with those functions that are realizable in hardware for which this particular failure model is intended. On the basis of the shortcut it is shown that: considering all M-place switching functions over all M ≥ 1, there is no minimum checkup containing more than 2M of the possible 2M inputs."
"This paper discusses the ever increasing costs incurred in manufacturing and maintaining military materiel and the use of Value and Reliability engineering as tools available to management to help reduce the problem to a minimum."
"This paper describes the development of a failure reporting mechanism specifically tailored for evaluation and maintenance of electronic hardware systems. The mechanism centers around an incident reporting form designed to optimize the human factors attendant to operational reporting on complex, modularized, transistorized and computer oriented systems."
"This paper provides a general discussion of electrical insulations technology for advanced aerospace rotating machines. Insulation requirements and design considerations are outlined. System evaluation techniques now in use and two typical insulation designs are described. Continued material and application development effort is required to assure this technical field will not limit technological progress with these machines."
"The words used to describe grounding practices are different among different industries. This leads to confusion and costly errors. To prepare an overall aerospace system specification, one must address engineers associated with air vehicles, checkout equipment, communications, architect-engineering, and utility power. Each must be able to work from what is said in his field, and be able to understand the requirements in other fields. Coordination requires a common language. A new official \"Definitions of Electrical Terms\" is required."
"The lightning mast and overhead ground wire are well-established methods for protecting structures from direct lightning strokes. The advent of space vehicles and missiles with stored or contained propellants, and the exposure of extremely sensitive circuitry, compel the design engineer to investigate the degree of lightning hazard and to inquire into the margin of safety provided by these conventional methods of protection. Field mapping techniques and field equation analysis are powerful tools for such investigations. This paper presents a condensed discussion of basic lightning phenomena, field mapping methods for determining the pre-strike field conditions, and a field equation analysis of the transition from the static to the dynamic state. This analysis is provided for the pre-strike period, the lightning stroke and follow-through period, and is continued until static field conditions are restored."
"This paper covers the grounding of the non-current carrying parts of a system. It complements the grounding of the installed equipment and the grounding of the power system. It gives a general procedure for assuring that the important considerations are given their proper attention and effectively is a guide to assuring that results are obtained."
"Critical loads are becoming more common and requirements are more exacting. The \"CF\" systems described here give complete isolation of the load from power line or power plant transients, failures, or deteriorations. These and other features are discussed herein. 1 - Complete load voltage and frequency isolation. 2 - Prime movers used for auxiliary power can be started using normal means; battery, air, hydraulic, etc., and allowed to accelerate to rated speed normally. 3 - Most power failures can be isolated from load without starting prime mover. 4 - Systems can be installed to operate from existing auxiliary or secondary power sources. 5 - Complicated, high-speed, power failure detection systems are not required."
"Diesel engine powered electric sets are prominent in the Aerospace support picture because they combine experience and new ideas into a practical, economical package. This paper is a study of the present status and future potential of diesel electric equipment and a discussion of how this power source reached its present importance."
"This paper discusses a system of rotating electrical equipment and its control which converts fluctuating alternating current into precisely regulated power with controlled frequency."
"This paper discusses the development of a type of engine-driven generating unit which supplies uninterrupted power to a critical load, when the commercial or prime power supply fails. This particular type of unit uses the principle that a synchronous electric machine will act as a motor when prime power is available and the same machine will act as a generator when driven by an inertia system or a combustion engine. This development has made available to the Engineer and the Physicist an economical and reliable uninterrupted power supply to support their complex electronic and nuclear equipment."
"This paper presents an analytical design technique that is useful in the calculation of Lundell type alternators."
"The degree of automation applied to test and checkout should be controlled by: (1) R&D nature of the end item program (2) Fixed program character of the state-of-the-art in automation (3) Test plan Within the scope of these basic considerations, a tradeoff should be performed among manual, semi-automatic, and automatic equipment. Certain inherent limitations of man and machine are provided. If automation is to be employed, a system design should be selected, interfaces defined, and selective implementation started in the R&D phase."
"The past decade has seen a tremendous increase in the complexity and capability of aerospace and weapons systems. However maintenance philosophy and checkout procedures have not kept pace. The maintenance procedures have been evolving slowly through three major phases: a. Manual Maintenance Procedures b. Serially Programmed Automatic Test Equipment c. Computer-Controlled Automatic Test Equipment In the latter case a small but highly capable general-purpose digital computer is used as the controller for the Automatic Test Equipment. Once a general standardized programmed set of stimuli and measuring instruments is incorporated in a computer-controlled automatic test system, one need only modify the program in the Automatic Test Equipment system memory rather than develop a new set of test equipment for each new system under test. Much of the basic feasibility work has already been completed for such computer controlled Automatic Test Equipment. This is summarized along with discussion of remaining problem areas. Of especial importance is the dependence of program details on the level of tests to be performed; e.g. overall system checkout or isolation of fault to subsystem, assembly, chassis, module, or component. It is shown that while the program details differ, the same test philosophy can be applied."
"This paper describes the Martin automatic rapid test and control (MARTAC) computer, which was designed and built by a team under the author's direction to meet a broad range of missile checkout and launch control problems. System, logic, circuit, and mechanical design and system operation are discussed, together with the integrated circuits that were used. An engineering prototype was built, debugged, and demonstrated."
"We are concerned in this paper with use of a digital computer for automatic checkout and fault isolation of electrical networks. The work reported here represents a refinement and extension of work done in a previous paper. Section 2 to follow gives a discussion of our circuit test philosophy and some of its immediate implications. Section 3 contains a review of previous work giving the required manipulations in compact matrix form. A new program for extended implementation of this procedure is given in section 4. Some results obtained by this program are presented in section 5. Section 6 presents a method whereby all analysis required for electric networks can be performed automatically working only from basic schematic diagram information. Conclusions and some future research plans are outlined in section 7."
"The basic capabilities and limitations of men and machines are discussed, as they relate to automated testing of aerospace vehicles. Operators and technicians are discussed from psychological and physiological viewpoints, and present automatic checkout equipment is discussed in respect to in-system performance. Both general and specific capabilities and limitations are discussed. The views presented are based upon an extensive survey of field applications of automatic checkout equipment."
"A model of a nuclear gyroscope has been constructed and operated which obtains its space reference information from observations of the dynamic behavior of atomic nuclei. The instrumentation results from the first practical application of nuclear magnetic resonance techniques to the problem of establishing reference with respect to inertial space. By means of simultaneous observation of signals from two different kinds of nuclei in the same magnetic field it has been possible to obtain a device which measures the angle of rotation about the direction of the magnetic field, without explicit knowledge of the magnitude or stability of the magnetic field. The output corresponds to that of a single degree of freedom integrating gyroscope."
"If a laser preamplifier could be developed to have sufficiently low internal noise it would be possible to achieve nearly 100% quantum efficiency in optical receivers now limited, especially in the near IR region, by the low efficiency of available photo-emissive detectors. It is shown that under proper conditions such a low level of internal noise could be achieved in a tuned laser amplifier. These conditions are related to the design parameters of the amplifier and the resulting requirements on bandwidth and beamwidth are discussed."
"The spectral and spatial characteristics of the Earth's infrared background are presented. It is shown that the vibration band of CO2 centered at 15 μ provides maximum discrimination against clouds at the tropopause. An optimum spectral bandwidth is defined and the radiance values computed as a function of scan angle for different latitudes. These data are used to produce the requirements for the optics of a typical horizon scanner system. The effect of the spatial variations in the Earth's apparent horizon on the angular accuracy is discussed for both amplitude-dependent systems and shape-dependent systems. The calculations are shown to be in agreement with experimental results. The work of other investigators is discussed in terms of the physics of the atmosphere and the assumptions made for the different calculation procedures."
"This paper describes a system of tactile communications and its associated electromechanical devices. Experiments conducted in human engineering indicate that dynamic excitation of cutaneous tissues on a six point limen on the skin can be meaningfully interpreted at rates up to 1000 characters per minute. The Ste-Re System provides an easily learned, coded and decoded language of communications capable of actuating, programming and transmitting information."
"The paper will cover the control of ac polyphase low voltage motors, rated 600 volts and below, and will discuss protective features available for the control of starting and operating."
"The author, as a member of the project group responsible for cabling BMEWS, has evaluated the procedures used and, after comparing them to other cabling tasks, has listed the program followed in the successful cabling of BMEWS. No individual item can be considered radical, either in concept or approach. Combined as a program, however, they resulted in the on-schedule, low cost performance of the BMEWS cabling task."
"This paper covers an improved and novel approach to missile cable assemblies. The only metal parts employed are those required for conductivity, such as connector contacts, copper wire, etc. The technique required for fabrication of these assemblies is relatively simple, will not be proprietary, yet this end product is practically indestructible and tamper proof. Preliminary surveys indicate considerable monetary savings can be expected"
"The automation of termination data to control equipment interconnection cabling was a major contribution to the on-time activation of Titan I ICBM hardsites. In all, more than 700,000 terminations were controlled by automated programming of the variables that influence cable design and routing. This program enabled prefabricating the 52 miles of cabling required for each Titan site; a total of 1350 different multiconductor cable configurations are represented in the 6600 cables provided. Automated termination data control and the successful installation of 99.9% of the factory-fabricated cables were noted milestones in the Titan I activation program."
"This paper discusses the feasibility of standardizing electrical connector assemblies for aerospace support applications. It outlines the determining factors involved - mechanical, electrical, environmental and economic - and reviews results of recent studies and tests concerning these factors. Finally, it describes in detail the design and capabilities of an electrical connector that makes such standardization possible."
"The increasing interest in possible applications of alkali metals in space technology is creating new demands in the area of liquid alkali-metal handling technology. The presence of contaminants in alkali-metal fluids can exert deleterious effects on thermophysical properties, corrosivity, and handling characteristics. This paper reviews the properties of pure rubidium and lithium and describes the extent and source of typical contamination. A current experimental investigation of the role of contamination in liquid rubidium and liquid lithium systems is discussed. An example of the rate o-f diffusion of atmospheric oxygen through a vent pipe into rubidium is given, and experimental evidence is cited for the influence of dissolved oxygen on the melting point, viscosity, and pumping characteristics of liquid rubidium. Based on the melting point depression data, it is confirmed that oxygen contaminant, in low concentrations, exists in liquid rubidium as rubidium monoxide."
"The stability permanence of calcia-stabilized zirconia was studied during the course of repeated heat treatments. Zirconias with various degrees of purity and initial stability were tested. X-ray diffraction and thermal expansion measurements were used to determine stability changes. Standard purity samples were partially destabilized by cyclic heating through the temperature of monoclinic-tetragonal phase change (between 954°C and 1260° C), while very high purity samples withstood this and even more severe heat tests."
"The Bureau of Mines helium program will assure an adequate supply of helium to meet present and future needs until about the year 2000. In addition to the production from our own plants, the Bureau will save about 62.5 billion cubic feet of helium under contracts with private plants that will extract helium from natural gas en route to fuel markets. We are saving this helium, which would otherwise be wasted uselessly into the atmosphere, in order that it can be used in the growth of our country. This is what conservation means in the Bureau of Mines as it relates to natural resources - not hoarding, but wise and efficient use."
"Life Support of space vehicle occupants under actual or simulated conditions has become an important part of the Aerospace Support field. Pioneer-Central Division of The Bendix Corporation has been actively engaged in this field and has developed a series of atmosphere supply systems for use by man in space simulation chambers. This paper describes a typical system, one that is a composite of existing operating systems, together with some of the problems encountered and design approaches used to overcome these problems."
"This paper spotlights Field Engineering as both capable and deserving of professional status. Professional and technical qualifications of its personnel must be of a high caliber. Personal conduct and managerial attitudes must be sufficient, to satisfy the customer's demands. Such attributes are the hallmark of those engaged in the Field Engineering Profession. Numerous IEEE members are directly involved and/or closely associated with Field Engineering."
"The continued demand for the installation of large equipment and apparatus of both commercial and defense nature places a greater emphasis on the need for development of field engineering as an important part of the engineering science. An experimental Technical Group devoted to this area of technical study in Baltimore met with strong support from the interested members and firms. An extension of this activity throughout the IEEE is advocated and a tentative outline of subordinate studies is outlined."
"With today's weapon systems becoming more complex, the requirement for system design and development to continue throughout the field implementation (installation - test - evaluation) phase has become the rule, not the exception. This has resulted in increased demands being placed on the field engineer and to such an extent that it is imperative that he participate in the research and development program from its inception. In this participation, the subsystem knowledge to cope with the varied technical problems which will arise in the field is obtained while, at the same time, he contributes significantly to the program in the areas of maintainability and installation engineering and planning for field test and evaluation."
"The paper describes the training equipment used by the Air Force to train Strategic Air Command personnel in the handling procedures for installing a Titan II missile in an underground silo. Included are descriptions of the design parameters established to effect economies, detailed features of the training equipment and procedures used during training. This trainer illustrates how full-scale equipment can be reduced to the minimum necessary to accomplish effective training while considering both economy and utility."
"A study was made to determine the influence of tests made at the factory, at the launch site and on the launch pad to establish flight readiness and system reliability. Based on data from tests on the Ablestar Stage vehicle, relationships of locational failure incidence as well as functional characteristics are developed. Failure rate levels are shown to be highly dependent on the conditions or stresses at the three different locations. It is also determined that failure rates are increasing with prolonged periods of system test. Conclusions are drawn that field tests should be minimized and only performed for purposes of multi-stage operational integrity."
"Study results are presented on transportation problems associated with the development and testing of nuclear rocket powered space vehicles at the static test site. The large size of the test articles, and the high levels of radioactivity present new remote handling problems. Factors involved in selecting a transport mode are discussed. Examples of these factors are given as they apply to requirements of advanced propulsion systems."
"This paper is intended to present typical information system models for future operational satellite systems. These models, including type and rate of data that must be processed and evaluated, are then utilized as basic requirements to synthesize an integrated computer-controlled prelaunch checkout and launch control system. The final system mechanization will be shown to be feasible utilizing present day off-the-shelf equipments."
"In order to give man the capability of extra-vehicular travel while in orbit, various concepts for individual propulsion units have been analyzed. These concepts varied from the hand-held gun to the Astronaut Maneuvering Unit (AMU). This paper analyzes the problems with these concepts and shows why the AMU, which is currently under test, is the safest and most reliable method for the orbital travel. Included is a discussion of the future research anticipated, as well as the various applications for the AMU."
"Long duration space mission success could depend upon the extent to which the crew can perform work outside the spaceship. Study results presented show that space suits are not the whole answer. Evaluation of worker requirements leads to a maintenance capsule concept. Capsule application is depicted in contrasting situations: Repair of meteoroid damage, a minor but vital task which can occur anywhere on the spaceship; and nuclear engine replacement, a task of major proportions."
"Digital Evaluation Equipment (DEE) is a programmer-controlled concept for building block test equipment. A particular system consists of a computer/controller, measuring system, stimulus generators and power supplies. DEE self-test utilizes a dual function concept; (1) automatically programmed testing, and (2) individual self-test of each building block. Since a DEE system encompasses a large test capability, the equipment is complex and design efforts have been concentrated on optimum use of the system to check itself. Self-test design is divided into the areas of systems testing and monitoring techniques. The programmed system testing uses the measuring equipments in the system to determine the operability of the various stimuli generators. The measurementunit is automatically self-calibrated with internal standards to assure that the system accuracy is maintained. The computer is self-tested using magnetic and/or paper tape depending on the degree of malfunction. The design of the programmed self-test is based on automation of all basic test functions that can be reduced to hardware without greatly increased complexity. Manual operations using military personnel are minimized. Self-test circuits are described for monitoring both digital and analog parameters. The types of circuits are described along with the criteria of their selection to perform the monitoring functions."
"An increasing body of evidence suggests the desirability of internally programmed equipment as contrasted with sequentially programmed machines for automatic checkout of large systems in the field. After defining internal and sequential programmed machines the fundamental advantages of the former in the areas of speed and random and repetitive access are reviewed. The specific capabilities and system test techniques resulting from these advantages are developed in detail, examples are given, and the results evaluated. The aggregate of these techniques applied by an internally programmed ACOE to a prime system designed for testability produces an efficient test program different in kind and depth from that implementable by a sequential machine. The value of increments in test efficiency are large and are translated into dollars through their effect on system availability and reliability. Such quantitative data as are available today are cited to support the validity of the conclusion."
"The Hughes-USAF VATE (Versatile Automatic Test Equipment) system automatically performs fault detection, fault isolation to the plug-in module or inertial component, and full acceptance testing, of inertial guidance equipment. It features: (1) Full digital-computer control; (2) simultaneous, independent operation of several different test stations by each time-shared computer; (3) maximum standardization of consoles, units, and subunits, to facilitate efficient variation of workloads and introduction of new prime systems; (4) sophisticated man-machine interaction; (5) reliability and maintainability. The system is described and on-line operating experience is discussed. I. Introduction and Historical Background II. The VATE System III. The \"Standard\" Consoles (HCM-111) 1. The Computer Station 2. Standard Portions of the Test Stations IV. Programming V. Adapter Portions of the Test Stations VI. VATE Maintenance and Self-Test VII. Operating Experience with VATE"
"A pattern recognition technique has been devised for the problem of equipment fault isolation. Implementation of this technique has been successfully programmed on a large general purpose computer and an evaluation has been made with data obtained on a 5-element circuit. Results conform closely to theoretical expectation. Indications of the practical limitations of the technique were obtained from some non-successful fault isolation attempts and areas were uncovered for refining and improving the technique. It would appear that although sequential testing still has an important role in automatic testing, pattern recognition may be a worthwhile and significant addition to the arsenal of fault isolation techniques in an era in which accessibility of equipment for testing is becoming increasingly difficult."
"Most computer operated test systems may be classified as macro systems. The joint work at The Bendix Corporation and Thompson Ramo Wooldridge indicates software has a significant influence on test system design and organization. From an operations standpoint, a computer operated test system requires two kinds of programs; those delivered with the system and expected to remain relatively stable, and those generated by test engineers for controlling the system and the conduct of specific tests. The latter are written as the need arises, and are subject to frequent modification as the nature of the system under test changes. It is essential, therefore, that the programming structure be organized so that test procedures can be written rapidly and accurately, and that these procedures can be readily integrated into the test system. For preparing test procedures, a compiler system is required by test engineers to write test statements in a restricted English language. This language makes free use of words, phrases and symbols particular to testing activities. In general this paper will be devoted to the discussion of test language development, compiler design, and influence on test system organization."
"A long life electrical power system adaptable to the 200 to 600 watt power range has been designed and evaluated for a space satellite in a medium to synchronous altitude earth orbit. The design approach included utilization of an analog computer in the initial stages to study the dynamic performance of the system consisting of an oriented solar array, battery charge/load regulator, nickel-cadmium battery, and satellite load. The final designs were performance and environmentally tested as individual components and tested as a system for prolonged periods. The test evaluation confirmed the soundness of the basic design approach and indicated specific areas for improvement and refinement."
"Present day aerospace ground electronic equipment and the flight vehicle electronic equipment cannot tolerate the quality of electrical power allowed by existing specifications. The increasing use of digital computers and logic type switching devices requires that the regulated rectified power used by these devices be free from transients. The voltage transient problem from the electronic designers' viewpoint is analyzed. A program is proposed to reduce transients to acceptable limits and revise the specifications to include these limits."
"A novel technique has been developed which enables a Morgan Chopper to be used in a system having wide input voltage and load current variations. A multi-section Morgan Chopper is programmed as a function of these variables to maintain a more constant chopping frequency. This and other special circuit techniques have been incorporated in a production 28 volt power supply which regulates better than ± 1% over wide input voltage and load current variations. One version of this supply having output capability of 4200 watts is packaged in a full ATR case and weight 75 pounds (figure 1)."
"This paper describes a non-interrupted power system using a dc motor as emergency drive, as differentiated from other types of non-interrupted power systems. This article does not attempt to compare the relative merits of the different systems, but rather points out the areas of application in which special consideration should be given to the various features of the unit, so as to provide the power which is ultimately required."
"The paper describes an iterative method of solution of one-point- and two-point-boundary \" trajectory problems\" specified in the form of integral equations. The rate of convergence of the process is enhanced by the use of associated Taylor series and/or solutions of simpler problems as first approximants. The accuracy of numerical quadratures need be high only in the final few iterations. The method has strong intuitive appeal, great flexibility, and appears to have an extensive field of potential applications."
"A preliminary analysis of orbital flight data, ground-test data, and correlation of orbital and ground-test results from a flat plate solar thermoelectric generator orbital experiment are presented. The small thermnoelectric panels used were fabricated and ground tested by General Atomic and placed into orbit from Vandenberg AFB by Space Systems Division, USAF. The entire program was conducted for and under the cognizance of Aeronautical Systems Division, USAF."
"This paper describes briefly the operation of three common radio-frequency mass spectrometers and compares their performances. Their limitations (maximum resolving power, operating pressure range, etc.) are pointed out. It is concluded that the quadrupole spectrometer has fewer limitations and is more generally useful in space probes than the other devices. Some present and proposed uses of spectrometers in space are discussed, and the problem of contamination of the atmosphere being sampled by the spectrometer is reviewed."
"Applications of heavy ceramics to the aerospace effort are reviewed and heat exchange spheres selected for discussion. Oxide candidates for such spheres are considered, balancing upper temperature limits against other physical properties and cost. Oxide purity is stressed for obtaining top quality spheres and the most economic overall furnace performance. Isostatic pressing is indicated as a superior sphere forming method. It is suggested that the potentials of composite bed design have not been fully explored."
"After an Illustrated Parts Breakdown (IPB) manuscript is prepared, it is submitted for data processing into final format. Greatly improved accuracy results through the use of electronic data processing equipment and a uniquely organized IPB group."
"This paper describes a data processing and display system that graphically represents digital data transmitted from a spaceborne vehicle in such a way that the operation of the payload can be rapidly evaluated. The digital data is converted to analog form and is presented in a pattern of dots and special symbols, representative of digitally coded information, in an X-Y coordinate form on a cathode-ray tube. The digital data processing system is described, but emphasis is placed on the data storage system and the attendant circuits. The storage medium used in this system is high-resolution scan-conversion tubes, which allow simultaneous write-in and readout. The data, which can be asynchronous, is read out by a high-resolution TV-type scanning and monitor system. The use of the scan-conversion tubes affords the most advantageous combination of storage capacity, storage time, short access time, and equipment economy."
"A system has been provided for use in environmental checkout of instrumented satellites. Included is an on-line computer for real time analysis and monitoring. Centralization of data flow permits handling of several large scale experiments simultaneously. Operation is on a 24 hour day basis. The stringent reliabilitygoals have been met, demonstrating the feasability of this type of coordinated data acquisition and analysis."
"Demonstration is made of how a digital communications system is simulated by a computerized model. Illustrations are given to show how the computer simulation becomes a helpful decision-making technique to guide the designer and engineering manager in designing to, and proving out the design to, systems specifications; in rapidly evaluating design changes; in establishing improved system monitoring and alarming; and in determining reliability figure of merit. The model is patterned upon a computer programming synthesis of all system scenarios and logic elements which are configured with virtual inputs, outputs, states, and inter-element connectivity. Simulated failures can be injected into any part of the system in any time frame as catastrophic failures or noise spike to study system performance. Computer simulation model has been used to evaluate system performance and to suggest desirable design improvements."
"This paper discusses the application of organization to diagrams as an approach to system understanding. The diagram structure shown defines the scope of information necessary to adequately understand the design, evaluation, and operational functions of the system. The integrated diagram approach illustrates that it is necessary to simultaneously consider the vehicle, systems, and supporting equipment. The applicability of these diagrams for support of technical publications whether for educational, training, or maintenance purposes is reviewed."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The results of applied research effort on thin-film photovoltaic cells sponsored by the United States Air Force under the cognizance of the Aeronautical Systems Division, WPAFB, Ohio are presented. Physical and electrical characteristics of state-of-the-art thin-film photovoltaic calls, potential for their improvement, as well as potential approaches to their application as power generating structures for aerospace vehicles are described."
"As can be surmised from my discussion, Air Force conceptual system work is directed toward eventual solar and nuclear applications. Because of weight and volume limitations posed by launch vehicles, solar thermionic generators will probably be limited to the upper limit of 3 - 5 kw. Beyond this power level it is expected that nuclear thermionic power generators will take over but these generators are most promising from the 50 kw power level upward. At low power levels below 1 kw isotope heated thermionic generators appear very feasible and for certain ground applications chemically fueled thermionic generators may prove feasible. Although thermionic power systems are five to ten years away from mission application fundamental concepts for their utilization are being investigated. When utilized with solar energy, thermionic converters will probably be mounted inside a cavity. Solar energy will enter the cavity through a small aperture and the entire generator will be mounted at the focal point of a parabolic reflector. This design concept permits rather compact units or modules and minimizes re-radiation losses from the extremely hot emitter surfaces. By the end of 1963 ground based tests of such designs should be complete enough to determine the basic feasibility of such a power system for space applications. Although ground based experiments cannot exactly duplicate space conditions and rather elaborate vacuum systems are required to eliminate oxygen and nitrogen from the system, it is believed that feasibility of the concept can be proven."
"If one makes an attempt to discard from publications on electrical insulation subjects the various hypothetical and conditional expressions, as well as definitions of technical terms, chosen by individuals rather than taken from already existing standards, not much convincing evidence remains in support of definite insulating breakdown criteria and test procedures. Contributing further to this controversial situation is the apparent disregard for both the still valid elementary laws and the feasibility of the still possible operational, non-destructive testing, but instead of the former increasing emphasis is still placed on the high-potential, destructive mode of testing for which no voltage limitations seem to be in sight. An analysis of the history on dielectrics, followed by a review of the basic natural laws governing these materials resulted in a series of recommendations toward the realistic use and nondestructive testing of insulating materials."
"This paper describes the application of existing aircraft design state-of-the-art to ground support equipment design problems posed by our future space program. It describes metering pin techniques and compliance systems as applied to handling mechanisms of multi-million pound space boosters."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"This paper discusses the feasibility of reducing the conventional undergraduate program in engineering from four years to three years by merely abolishing what is now the fourth or senior year. No change in the existing duration of the academic year is called for in this plan. Some radical though desirable changes in curriculum packaging are, however, implied. The plan is presented on its own merits as a serious proposal for adoption on the American scene of engineering education. It is compared with the trimester plan of curriculum compression, with the European \"pass\" and \"honors\" pattern, and with the other extreme, often suggested, of extending the conventional four-year program to five years."
"This paper describes a laboratory course in electric machines and power systems that is under development at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute for senior electrical engineering students. The basic premise being followed is that students learn only by doing original work in which they are genuinely interested. Therefore, the assignments consist of original projects, selected by the individual students which require making and testing some novel assembly of machines and circuits. Examples of these projects are making a mercury electric pump, making and testing various forms of reactor with alnico, solid steel, or copper sections inserted in the ac flux path, developing a novel battery charging circuit for automobiles with ac power supply and a static current regulator in place of the usual voltage regulator, and testing a self-excited alternator of novel design with a static voltage regulator."
"The state of physics, at the threshold of the modern era, in 1880, is briefly reviewed. The classical description of a physical event, as observed in Galilean frames, is outlined. The following experiments are discussed: aether drift (Michelson and Morley), propagation of radio waves (Hertz;Lodge), magnetic fields generated by motion of charge with respect to the aether (Roentgen; Trouton and Noble), and dependence of electronic charge to mass ratio on velocity (Kaufmann). The postulates of relativity by Poincaré and by Einstein are stated. The effects of the Lorentz transformation on time and space, the nature of the four-vectors, potential, momentum and frequency, and the tensor electromagnetic field are reviewed. The Fourier spectrum of a physical event, which is localized in space and time, is described in order to illustrate the uncertainty principle the inherent limitation on the accuracy of determining a region in space-time that relates, through Planck's constant of proportionality, to limitations on the determination of energy within a given time and momentum within a given space."
"A brief and personalized description of Italian electrical engineering education is presented. The author, a student in the electronics engineering curriculum at the University of Rome, provides a step-by-step account of the academic training of the student engineer, beginning with his pre-university preparation and ending with the presentation of his thesis and his receiving the degree of Doctor of Engineering. He touches on some problems in the Italian engineering education program."
"This paper describes the new electromechanics laboratory facilities at Stanford and the philosophy governing the teaching approach to the laboratory course. A typical experiment is described to illustrate how a relatively simple electromechanical device can be used to maximize student learning in the laboratory."
"Details of an X-band antenna test range built from readily available components are presented. The design is primarily for student use but may be used for antenna research as well. A feature of the design is the ease with which antennas of different impedances may be matched to a coaxial antenna feed and in turn to the waveguide source. The far field radiation pattern of the test antenna is recorded from relative field intensity levels measured at any point on a hemisphere. The test range occupies an area of approximately two by three feet. Details on four antennas demonstrate different radiation patterns and matching techniques. Suggestions for a student's experiment are included."
"90 years ago, in 1873, Maxwell (1831-1879) published his \"Treatise On Electricity and Magnetism.\" The aim of this paper is to review the life and the scientific contributions of one of the first and the most ardent and loyal of his disciples, one of the most brilliant applied mathematicians and scientists of all time, the first modem electrical and electronics engineer, a self-taught man who, more than any other single man, was instrumental in developing the electromagnetic field theory and its classical applications into the form in which it is taught today in our colleges and universities-Oliver Heaviside."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"In the national debate about the shortage of people trained to advanced levels in modern technology, have we not overlooked the engineer already in practice? If the knowledge and skill of selected, key, practicing engineers were updated and reoriented, these men could help greatly to close the gap. As the pace of scientific advance continues, the knowledge of engineers who have been out of school for a number of years lags more and more. It appears that the quickest and perhaps the best way to fill the gap in numbers and capability, in both industry and education, is to embark on a formal program of updating and reorienting the skills of the most promising men now in these two fields. The character of the gap is well illustrated by the observations that during the 1945-1950 period few undergraduate engineering curricula included the fundamentals of nuclear physics, feedback control, information theory, digital computer technology, solid-state physics and molecular engineering, plasma physics, interactions of electromagnetic theory with fluid dynamics and statistical and wave mechanics, probability theory in decision making, relativity theory, or modern mathematics. The demands now imposed by the nation's space effort were not even visualized. There are three major groups-engineering managers, technical group leaders, and engineering professors-that seek assistance. Most attempts to solve the crucial problem of updating our engineers are fragmented, or lacking in certain key elements."
"The rate of accumulation of knowledge, and the application of knowledge, now frequently depreciates the value of an education gained in one's first 20 or 25 years. Experience acquired in the interim may not be a satisfactory substitute for the new knowledge which has become current since one's formal education. The consequence is to place an even greater premium on recently educated (younger) employees and to accelerate their rate of obsolescence. It is not only production workers who are threatened by new technologies, but professional and managerial personnel as well. They may not lose their jobs, but they may be downgraded on the promotional ladder. What is needed, if we are to avoid piling up frustrations on the part of people still in their physical and mental prime, is a new conception of formal education as something stretching through a person's lifetime. The additional cost will be more than offset by increased productivity. Even before this becomes public policy, companies can move on their own to encourage their management personnel, beginning with the younger members, to return to the classroom every few years to keep up with the flow of knowledge. Various mechanisms are available to make this a perfectly feasible program."
"Although there has been some leveling off in the expansion of established research organizations, normal business growth plus requirements by government-financed research and new businesses will keep the demand for manpower high. There is little likelihood that the output of scientists and engineers by universities will keep pace with the needs. Thus, increasing productivity by retraining researchers hired since World War II is the best way to raise substantially the nation's total technological effort. Technical obsolescence is due in part to the rapid growthrate of knowledge, the major modifications of collegiate training in recent years, the influence of computing machines, and the industrial practices of encouraging specialization and emphasizing supervisory training. The most common updating aid is the tuition refund plan, almost universally adopted by industry. Plans of this type encourage degree-oriented employees early in their careers, but do not provide sufficient motivation for older workers in need of refresher training. For these, companies are using university short courses extensively, and hiring professors to teach subjects at their plants. For the technical training of managers, one university has developed a 6-week course in modern engineering. Currently the greatest need is for training specifically designed for the employee 10 years or more out of school which will bring him up-to-date in the developments in his field of science or engineering. The suggestion is made that some universities offer such programs during the summer months."
"The goal of engineering education is to train students to enter the practice of engineering. To accomplish this, there must be a faculty which is itself well-educated and adept at the practice of engineering, as well as a sympathetic environment, adequately equipped with appropriate facilities. Today's rapid technological progress renders earlier developments obsolete. The engineer, therefore, must be alert to adapt to his purposes the latest and most powerful advances of scientific knowledge. The failure of the faculty to keep up this pace has resulted in an inability to cope with the implication of scientific advances and a lack of communication between the educator and his counterpart in industry and development laboratories. By default, the scientist has had to step in to assume engineering responsibilities; thus the training of our engineers all too often has become a function of industry and development centers. If industry and science continue to take over this responsibility, we need a searching examination to determine the cause of our inadequacy. Our faculties and institutions must maintain an adequate and identifiable program of engineering education, or our role will become precarious and ambiguous. At the heart of the problem are the opportunities, or lack of them, provided for engineering faculties to continue their educational and professional development. A total program of faculty education and professional development will include: 1) research and development investigations, 2) consulting, 3) internal educational activities, and 4) external educational activities."
"Programmed instruction provides a unique opportunity to \"engineer\" engineering education. The preparation of programs involves the normal engineering processes of specification of end product, specification of materials used (student preparation), and experimental iteration of designs until a reasonable approximation to the optimum is achieved. Programmed instruction is based on theories of learning developed by behavioral psychologists working with animals. It depends upon subdivision into the smallest possible units of the material to be taught, stimulation of the learner to do something immediately with the material presented, and immediate confirmation of correct responses. The many experiments now being conducted in the use of programmed instruction in engineering education all attempt to take advantage of the ability of properly programmed materials to permit students to learn better than other methods, while keeping the rate of learning variable in accordance with individual needs. In the future programs will be used widely to teach fundamental principles, to assure uniformity of class background, and as review material both for university and industrial applications."
"The exploitable logistic patterns of synthesis and application derivable from a fully differentially paced teaching system should be recognized as one of the more highly significant contributions of the system worth identifying and developing. This paper sets forth views and procedures resulting from research into adaptive autoinstructional methodologies at New York Institute of Technology as they affect scheduling and other logistical administrative problems."
"Programmed Experimental Teaching Exercises have been developed as part of an attempt to create a complete laboratory program which will meet the needs of today's electrical engineering students. These exercises are used as part of the classroom presentation and allow the students, using laboratory procedures, to demonstrate for themselves basic phenomena being studied in the classroom. Each exercise is a carefully worked out demonstration which is performed by a team of two students at an instrumented work station with the aid of an assembled circuit configuration and a detailed program. Each program contains theoretical and explanatory material, detailed instructions for performing the demonstration including the operation of all equipment, and questions and discussion designed to insure the student's understanding of the phenomenon being demonstrated. The exercises are assigned as part of the classroom homework and are performed in a selfdemonstration laboratory during a 2-hour period which the students schedule themselves."
"Programmed Experimental Teaching Exercises have been used for laboratory instrument familiarization and for demonstration of basic circuit phenomena in conjunction with a first course in circuit theory for electrical engineering students. The exercises were used as part of the normal classroom presentation and covered such subjects as signal waveforms, time constants, superposition, impedance, resonance, power, Bode plots, and dependent sources. The students confirmed that the exercises materially strengthened the course and were of definite help in understanding basic concepts. The exercise on the use of the dual-trace oscilloscope, as an example of the utilization of these exercises for instrument familiarization, provided sufficient theory and training to enable the students to confidently use the oscilloscope as a measuring instrument."
"Existing pressures resulting from the need for stronger university-industry cooperation have created, among other aspects, a concerted demand from industry for more offcampus participation by the universities. After reviewing briefly the major historical changes which have established the tradition and purposes of university patterns of education, this paper warns of the philosophic and altruistic threat which the trend to off-campus education portends. If pursued too enthusiastically, it could well prove to destroy the particular uniqueness upon which a university depends for its existence; this is tantamount to parricide."
"The graduate assistance program of The Magnavox Company is covered in detail. Curriculum and methods of financing are described, and the statistics to date are detailed. In addition, the cooperative activities between industries in the state of Indiana and Purdue University are reported with respect to the statewide graduate program for engineers in industry. The Magnavox program is possibly unique in its combination of on-campus and off-campus studies, and in its partnership with a second company, the International Telephone and Telegraph Company. The description of the program may serve as a guide for organizing similar regional activities elsewhere in the country."
"This paper describes a torque transducer system which measures the force of reaction on the stationary member of a rotating machine delivering or receiving power. The transducer system is not interposed between the driver and the driven machine. It is used as a sub-base in setting up the machine whose torque is to be measured. The transducer has a torque rating but no speed rating. Its torque rating can be changed by interchanging sets of hollow cylindrical springs. Some data are given to show its versatility, and its time-and investment-saving possibilities."
"This paper shows how the superposition integrals can be evaluated without recourse to changing the limits of integration, when the integrands are zero over a range, through the use of singularity functions. This method avoids the need for sketching the integrands and illustrates the concepts involved in the superposition integrals without restricting the range or duration of the functions involved. As a teaching aid, the approach described is especially useful at the sophomore or junior level, where the students first encounter superposition integrals and singularity functions."
"A device is described which samples the potentials of a 90-node resistance-grid analog computer and turns on lamps whenever it finds a potential higher than a set value. The resulting lamp pattern displays to watching students the approximate location of a given line of equal potential; a series of such lines can be successively illuminated by progressively increasing the voltage across the resistance-grid model. Application of the device to various teaching situations is briefly considered."
"This paper presents a simplified method of deriving Wiener's optimum frequency-response system based on the meansquare-error. The initial step follows closely other authors but the final solution is obtained without resorting to cumbersome algebraic manipulation of \"completing the square.\" Furthermore, the present approach is more rigorous and provides a solution representing a unique minimum for the variables considered."
"An electric public utility, facing a necessary change in organization structure and a continuing problem of managerial replacements, discovered a dearth of managers immediately capable of assuming larger responsibilities. A full-scale inventory of managerial resources was undertaken, and a four-pronged appraisal tool was used to produce composite individual appraisals. A comparison of appraisals with position specifications revealed numerous instances of potential ability and aptitude, but inadequate present knowledge of the concepts and skills of business management, as well as frequent cases of unfamiliarity with the complex factors involved in applying economic analysis to engineering decisions. Exploration of personal histories revealed that, in such instances, neither undergraduate education nor postbaccalaureate experience had been sufficient to insure competence in the managerial and economic areas. Establishment of a 4-week school dealing with management concepts; evening seminars dealing with the skills of leadership, communications, decision making, and delegation; and a 30-hour course in engineering economics were among the internal developmental activities undertaken by the company to provide an effective solution to some of its most pressing problems of employee education and development."
"This experiment uses a relatively simple physical phenomenon to produce shock waves of an ionized gas. If two wires carry currents in opposite directions, they repel one another, due to the mutually coupled magnetic field. In this experiment, the \"two wires\" consisted of a stream of ionized gas and a fixed conductor. The stream of ionized gas was produced in an evacuated tube by discharging a bank of capacitors; it then was accelerated down the tube by the \"push\" exerted by the magnetic field. The magnetic field, created by the current flow in the circuit, can be determined from measurements of this current. Three independent techniques for the measurement of current agree within 25 per cent of one another. The velocity of the shock wave was measured, using two photo-multiplier tubes to sense the emitted light of the moving plasma at two positions along the shock tube. The velocity was around 10 cm/μsec, or 300 times the speed of sound. To minimize the inherent complexity of the experiment, the pressure in the tube was held constant. The magnitude of the pressure was derived both by measiring the gas conductivity and by using a calibrated thermocouple vacuum gauge. The gas used was air at a pressure of 0.7 mm of mercury."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This subject-author index of over 500 papers is intended as a helpful reference tool for those who seek material on the writing, verbal presentation, and publication of technical information, and as a guide to people who have authored such material. Many of the papers listed - especially those given in local society meetings - have not been published. These were included bcause frustration is preferable to total ignorance. To track down an unpublished paper or an author when all else fails, contact the organization that sponsored the meeting at which the paper was given. This index is not necessarily 100% exhaustive; some titles may have been omitted, and some misclassified. Readers are invited to notify the Transactions on EWS of errors or omissions."
"The author argues that we adopt a new word, \"IMPARTION,\" which would be defined as the art and science of cooperatively sharing information (versus 'communication' which is a competitive device used for the issue of orders!)"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The paper reviews the application of image theory to the problem of a current dipole in a homogeneous conducting medium where the boundary is a plane or circular cylinder, and shows how the technique applies to the case of a radial dipole in a spherical volume. The use of images for arbitrary shaped volumes is then considered. A rough criterion is developed and the approximation checked for the case of a \"horizontal\" dipole in a sphere. Finally the question of zero potentials is reviewed in the context of the previous work and in general."
"The Helmholtz reciprocity theorem for currents in an inhomogeneous conducting media is put into a useful form for the solution of problems such as arise in electrocardiography. Several examples are considered which lead to known results and which illustrate the application of the method."
"In peripheral organs a logarithmic relationship between stimulus and response holds for a rather wide range of input magnitudes. This relationship is clearly demonstrated for Limulus between the frequency of discharge in the optic nerve, and the intensity of stimulating light. A simple relaxation oscillator is envisioned to model the generation of nerve impulses. The necessary transfer function of the charging circuit of the oscillator is computed so that the frequency of oscillation should be proportional to the logarithm of the magnitude of the input voltage. It is shown that the obtained transfer function can be realized by a tapered RC transmission line. The experimental verification of the derivation is given."
"The determination of cardiac output and central blood volume is of considerable importance, not only in cardiac research but in the diagnosis and treatment of heart disease. At present, the most clinically adaptable method of determining these parameters is the indicator-dilution technique. However, analysis of indicator-dilution curves is laborious, requiring twenty to forty minutes of a skilled operator's time. A simple instrument has been devised which permits the determination of cardiac output and central blood volume in less than one minute. The computer described in this paper makes use of an electronically-generated curve which is displayed on a CRT, and optically superimposed on the actual indicator-dilution curve. Three manual controls, used to match the curves, yield the desired parameters. The computer may be used to analyze curves within the following ranges: Curve amplitude (2A) = 2.5 to 10 cm; Period (T) = 2.5 to 10 sec; Time constant (CT) = (0.25 to 1) × T sec; Injection (I) = 5 to 12.5 mg; Calibration (M) = 5 to 1.2 cm/mg/liter; Cardiac output = 0 to 48 liters/min; Mean transit time = 25 sec full scale."
"A simple, inexpensive electro-optical instrument is described, by which the osmotic fragility curve of red blood cells, as obtained by gradually decreasing the salt concentration of the medium surrounding the cells, can be automatically recorded. Either the direct sigmoid curve or the derivative curve can be recorded."
"The use of radio-telemetering has several advantages for the recording of EEG data from unrestrained subjects. By use of transistor techniques, miniaturization of the apparatus carried by the subject is made possible. Design considerations for a transistorized high input impedance, low-noise, single-sided amplifier for the EEG frequency and dynamic range are evaluated. Common-collector configuration and an unconventional input circuit of the first stage, and careful choice of transistors and their operating points, enable one to obtain satisfactory noise performance in the actual amplifier. A differential-input amplifier, based on features utilized in the design of a single-sided type, was developed. Rejection of in-phase signals (better than 3000 to 1 at 50 cps), an input impedance of 300 kilohms, and low noise referred to the input (3μv peak-to-peak at 20 kilohms of interelectrode resistance), determine the main features for EEG amplification purposes. A VHF FM one-stage oscillator, working at 30 Mc, provides transmission of signals up to a distance of 10 m. EEG records taken from subjects free in behavior, and even during convulsions, show no artifacts."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A simple and versatile microspectrofluorometer is described together with suitable electronic circuits for single-differential-or double-aperture operation. The apparatus is suitable for measuring oxidation-reduction states of mitochondrial and cytoplasmic pyridine nucleotide in various organs with apertures ranging from 15 microns up to a few millimeters. Suitable optical and electronic components are briefly described together with some of their limitations. The application of the method to the state of oxygenation of brain and liver together with the recording of hormonal responses in the heart is indicated. An outline of the limitations of the present apparatus and desirable future developments is included."
"Some important requirements are outlined for future research on the nervous system if more complex details are to be determined and effectively applied to engineering systems. In particular, these include the development of more precisely controlled and accurate complex stimulus-response experiments, the rapid analysis of characteristically noisy records for the detection of fine detail responses and the intensive correlation of such experiments with adequate theoretical modeling. An \"on-line\" remote computer station used in conjunction with a central data processing system is described which facilitates the above objectives. This biological control and data processing system is designed to control and accurately record complex multistimuli multiresponse experiments, rapidly digitize pertinent information, send this to the central computer and also receive back analyzed results in graphical form. The application of the system to specific research, at the California Institute of Technology, on sight perception systems is illustrated. Particularly pertinent has been its use to accurately determine and analyze the complex flight torque phototropisms of the housefly, Musca domestica. Less sophisticated experiments made before the application of this data processing system were most discouraging. This was due to the extreme variations between single records, the large apparent noise or uncorrelated responses together with the evidence of complex multifrequency responses and variable sensitivity to different components of the stimuli. The application of the computer system resolved the data analysis problems and many of the required stimulus accuracy problems."
"By taking advantage of readily available industrial devices, used in conjunction with a simple auxiliary circuit, an efficient inexpensive blood-flow measuring system can be obtained. As a further advantage, the preamplifier and demodulator-recorder may be detached and used for other purposes. Flow recordings obtained with this system appear to equal or better recordings obtained with commercial integrated electromagnetic blood-flow measuring systems in regard to both frequency response and noise level. The system also exhibits high reliability and ease of operation as well as portability."
"The term biological clock is used to designate the phenomenon, displayed by organisms, of pacing activity in a cyclic manner related to environment. Many nocturnal animals, for example, are capable of entraining the onset of their activity with the light-to-dark transition in a periodic light-dark regime in which the period or ratio of light to darkness varies widely. This paper presents the development of an electronic model for simulation of the adaptation of the endogenous circadian rhythm of nocturnal animals due to light stimuli."
"The objective of the research was to develop a transducer to measure arterial blood pressure. It was required that the transducer provide a continuous measure of blood pressure, that it not encumber the subject and that it not require cannulation. Two basic techniques were investigated both analytically and experimentally. First, an indirect measurement of blood pressure based on arterial deflection was attempted. Difficulties of calibration; and sensitivity to physiological changes of skin and tissue around the artery led to the decision to attempt a more direct measurement of arterial blood pressure. In this second approach, arterial deflection is restrained by the transducer and the resultant restraining force is measured. A mathematical model of the transducer artery system was developed and was used as a guide for the design of the experimental prototype transducers. Tests performed on these experimental transducers gave results consistent with the predictions of the model. These transducers have been used to measure blood pressure at large superficial arteries, with results comparable to sphygmomanometer determinations."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In dealing with the sophisticated statistical analysis of medical signals such as the electrocardiogram (ECG), the first problem one encounters is how to describe each ECG by a few numbers. This is the problem of efficient representation of signals, i.e., to approximate the signal with the smallest number of basis signals while preserving the accuracy of the approximation. This paper begins with a discussion of signal representation in general. The concept of signal space is introduced, which is very helpful in understanding the ideas of signal representation. This portion of the material is of tutorial nature. Attention is then directed to a set of basis components which we have found to be very efficient for ECG representation. These components are the so-called orthonormal exponential signals. An iterative process is developed which enables us to find a set of matched exponents for the representation of all ECGs. With six pairs of such exponentials, the average error of ECG representation (QRS and T waves only, leaving out P wave) is in the vicinity of five per cent. Experimental results will be shown. Using this representation, further statistical analysis may be carried out with ease."
"The theoretical basis for information retrieval and analysis in vector electrocardiography is examined with a view to establishing fundamental limitations on commonly used clinical techniques. The basis for equivalent heart generators is specified and relationships between them are analyzed. An \"ideal\" lead system is defined and related to practical clinical schemes. Limitations of an \"ideal\" lead system are discussed in view of experimental findings which question its diagnostic applicability for abnormal heart conditions. Various analytical tools are related and their practical advantages and disadvantages outlined. The advisability of vectorcardiography as a total replacement for present clinical scaler techniques is seriously questioned."
"The potentials generated by a live turtle (pseudemys) heart at the center of a spherical electrolytic tank were measured at surface points. Using a truncated multipole expansion, the dipole and quadrupole coefficients were determined from the resultant set of simultaneous equations at intervals over the QRS period. The measurement technique was checked using known artificial sources; a rough check on the truncation assumptions was made based on a known analytical model. The experimental results show that a significant quadrupole term is present. The presence of higher order poles could not be ruled out."
"Automatic interpretation of electrocardiograms is a particular example of the application of digital computers to medical diagnosis; this paper describes our experience with a new approach involving pattern recognition techniques. The program employs a multiple adaptive matched filter system with a variety of normalization, weighting, comparison, decision, modification, and adapting operations. The flexibility of the method has permitted study of effects of experimental variations of these operations on the pattern classification process to simulate human interpretation of electrocardiograms more closely. These programs have been successfully applied to actual electrocardiograms from cardiac patients. These researches in application of computer pattern recognition techniques to the automatic interpretation of electrocardiograms have been undertaken because they join together three fields of great interest. First, an example of artificial intelligence or a self-organized system is represented by the adaptive filter memory, together with the related decision operations. Second, we consider our program to be a model of complex sensory discrimination and use our intuition of human psychology as a guide when selecting one of several possible program mechanisms to overcome temporary obstacles. Third, the automation of medical diagnosis is a rapidly developing and promising field contributing to medical progress. This paper pays particular attention to the third of these objectives. The present state of computer analysis of electrocardiograms is mainly one of orthogonalization of the spatial vector, point recognition to separate the various component waves, parameterization, in one case via Fourier techniques, and then statistical matrix analysis."
"This paper describes a light weight, rugged, frequency modulated high frequency (HF) transmitter designed for telemetering biological data from birds in flight. The transmitter, including the batteries, weighs 36 grams, operates at 230 mc, produces 3 milliwatts of power, measures 3 inches in length and 1.25 inches in diameter, and has a range of 0.5 mile. It can be carried by pigeons and birds of larger size."
"A miniature transmitter was designed to telemeter muscle potentials from dogs. The implanted transmitter is operated by a nickel-cadmium battery. In order to obtain information over long periods of time, the battery is recharged by induction from an external power source. By using the oscillator transistor in an inverted configuration, the transmitter's circuit serves to recharge the battery without the addition of extra components. The simplicity of the circuit makes the unit compact and minimizes the failure of components. A magnetic switch is used to actuate the circuit, thus eliminating complete drain and degeneration of the battery."
"This is an investigation concerning the feasibility of establishing an undergraduate bio-medical engineering program and an interpretation of the present trends and demands for students completing this field of study. The paper is based upon a statistical study of the opinions of deans of colleges, deans of medical schools, directors of medical hospitals and research centers and directors of engineering corporations, government agencies and employment agencies. The answers to selected questions were tabulated and various comments were recorded. It was found that there is definitely a need for personnel in this field and consequently the necessity of establishing an undergraduate program."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A new approach to analog simulation and study of the neuron is proposed. This approach is based on recent physiological evidence which indicates that the individual nerve cell is functionally much more complex than the classical view of a synaptic region coupled directly to a spike or impulse-generating region. At least two different intermediate regions have been found. One provides a reliable low-frequency timing or pacemaker function; the other provides nonlinear amplification of both the synaptic and the pacemaker potentials. In addition, the synaptic regions have been found to provide a large variety of complicated interneural transfer functions. In the view presently held by many physiologists, the spatial distribution of these functionally distinct regions within a single neuron would determine its information-processing capabilities. The behavior of each of the functionally distinct regions of the neuron is discussed in this paper. Simple transistor circuits which may be used to simulate individual regions are also described. Groups of these circuits may be connected to form analogs of the entire neuron or any part thereof. Special emphasis is placed here on the synaptic functions, with only a cursory discussion being given for the other regions. It is hoped that networks of the type described in this paper will be of considerable use in future studies of the information processing capabilities of single nerve cells."
"With the subject exposed to an alternating magnetic field, eye position may be accurately recorded from the voltage generated in a coil of wire embedded in a scleral contact lens worn by the subject. Using two magnetic fields in quadrature phase and two coils on the lens, one may measure horizontal, vertical and torsional eye movements simultaneously. The instrument described has an accuracy and linearity of about 2 per cent of full scale, a resolution of 15 seconds of arc and a bandwidth of 1000 cyles per second."
"Experiments have been conducted which reveal the existence of a detectable magnetic field associated with cardiac electrical activity. The relationship between the magnetic record and the electrocardiogram has been explored and it is shown that under certain conditions of axis orientation the voltage induced into a toroidal sensing element around the heart has the form of the first time derivative of the electrocardiogram. A formula based on Maxwell's equations has been developed to relate these two phenomona."
"The \"titration\" procedure is reviewed together with its application to the auditory system of the cat. The relevant portion of the auditory system is described by a mathematical model, and calculations based on it show the merit of titration over the direct observation of a stimulus-response ratio. The model yields a good approximation to Desmedt's experimental titration data."
"The purpose of this paper is to present the results of a study to determine design values for the basic hydraulic parameters of a mechanical pulse duplicator that reproduces as many of the significant source and load characteristics as possible. The method of approach used in this study has been to first investigate the physiological system to find what parameters are important to the production of the dynamic pressure-flow situation in the vicinity of the heart valves. A conceptual mechanical model was then developed that would use these same parameters to model the source and load characteristics. Finally, an electronic analog computer was used to find design values for the mechanical model and test its response as compared to published data on response of the human cardiovascular system. Design values are presented in tabular form. Waveform recordings of system responses are shown along with similar recordings reported in the literature, and comparisons are made."
"An instrument has been developed to automatically scan a microscopic area for the quantitative evaluation of the light transmitting properties of biological materials on the cellular and subcellular levels. The specimen may be viewed through an aperture of selected size in the microscope both visually and electronically, while the slide is electronically manipulated to scan a rectangular area whose length and width are independently adjustable from 5 to 100μ. The slide is swept back and forth horizontally at a uniform rate which is adjustable from 0.4 to 4 μ/sec. At the end of each horizontal sweep it is moved vertically by an adjustable step of 0.2 to 10 μ. The scanning process proceeds entirely automatically until the selected area has been scanned. The stage motion is produced by thermal expansion and contraction in tungsten wires through which electronically controlled heating currents are passed. Precise control of the velocity and position of the stage is achieved by the use of feedback systems to control the heating currents in the wires so that their resistances, and therefore their temperatures, are accurately related to the values of analog control voltages. The relation between the horizontal and vertical stage displacements and the controlling voltages is linear within the precision of an occular micrometer."
"The paper describes the design and performance of the smallest iron core electromagnetic flow transducer built so far. The design is miniaturized as to the total volume of the device as well as to the size of the artery it accommodates. The use of this transducer for recording of blood flow in the smallest species of animal employed until now in blood flow research is described. Illustrations of pharmacological observations in anesthetized rats are presented."
"This paper describes a new instrument with excellent low frequency response for recording arterial pulse wave forms. It uses a fluid filled chamber and a stiff diaphragm to which a set of semiconductor strain gages are cemented."
"During continuous pacing experiments at the University of Missouri Medical Center, Columbia, with the micromodule pacemaker receiver' implanted on the left ventricle of thirty-six mongrel dogs in complete heart block, it was observed that after 24 days in one case, 52 days in another, and 35 days in a third, micromodules with stainless steel electrodes failed to pace. Upon reoperation it was discovered that the positive electrode of one module had been reduced to a short stub. In another module the positive electrode was loose, disrupting the circuit. In the third module the positive electrode was completely missing."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper discusses the problem of very high accuracy determination of the direction of north by gyro-compass means. It indicates the quality of gyroscope performance and vertical determination required, and demonstrates the effect of small forcing oscillations in disturbing the north pointing accuracy. Simplifications of the over-all gyro-compass loop equations are indicated; from these can be quickly estimated the amount of filtering required to obtain a given degree of accuracy under a particular environment. The basic purpose of the discussion is not to make the reader an expert in gyro-compass dynamics but rather to clarify the problem to a sufficient degree to equip him to understand better what can be hoped for in the way of accuracy and settling time under particular conditions."
"The solution of the free-fall guidance and control problem in an inverse-square central force field is treated as an introduction. Circular, elliptical, parabolic and hyperbolic trajectories are covered. Consideration of the control problem (steering and thrust cutoff signals) is applied to the case of a rocket where only the direction of the thrust vector and thrust cutoff are controllable. Consideration is given to the energy aspects, and to launch and atmospheric conditions as they affect guidance and control. These techniques are then extended to the solution of the free-fall guidance problem in N-body space. In this latter category, Bonnet's Theorem, as extended by Egorov, is covered to show its application to the solution of the N-body problem by superimposing solutions of the inverse-square central force field problem. The theorem is applied to treat the problem of finding possible conic trajectories in two-body space. The problem of finding possible conic and nonconic trajectories in three-body space is also covered and a solution to the guidance problem for these trajectories is included. The libration points of the N-body problem are treated as special cases of the solutions discussed. The equations discussed are valid for a vehicle of negligible mass acted upon by forces due only to N inverse-square central force fields. No attempt has been made to cover the effects of noninverse-square central force fields, although Bonnet's Theorem can be applied to constrained trajectories such as those that will be made possible with a continuous low thrust vehicle."
"Most attitude reference systems function quite well under laboratory conditions but suffer considerable degradation in operational environments. A discussion is given of the excellent attitude reference information inherent in inertial navigation systems. Some limitations in reference system accuracy as a function of the characteristics of the gyroscopes used are given. The discussion centers primarily on attitude information from earth-orientated inertial navigation systems and includes considerations of both level and azimuth attitude information. Degradation of azimuth information at higher latitude is also discussed."
"The principle of correcting for inertial guidance error by means of star sighting has been successfully incorporated in automatic inertial navigators for aircraft such as the MK-1 guidance system for the SM62A pilotless bomber. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the application of stellar sighting techniques to the augmentation of inertial guidance for ballistic missiles."
"A pure Schuler-tuned terrestrial inertial navigator with polar mode capability is considered. The general computing requirements for digital mechanizations are outlined and pertinent characteristics for digital differential analyzers (DDA) and general purpose (GP) digital computers are listed. Factors involved in choosing between the two, and combinations thereof, are discussed, It is concluded that the addition of a DDA section for complete or partial performance of the inertial navigation function provides no advantage for the faster GP digital computers available for airborne inertial navigation, but might well be advantageous for a very slow GP digital computer."
"The ever growing demands for improvement in performance of guidance equipment to be used in missiles and space vehicles has led to intensive interest in stellar-aided inertial reference systems. A stellar-inertial system uses star position information to correct for gyro drift and misalignment errors and serves as a means for updating position and velocity information generated by the guidance system computer. This capability becomes particularly attractive for extended space flights and for mobile ballistic missile systems. The design configurations assumed by stellar-inertial guidance systems may vary widely. Variations arise from the types of guidance equations dictated by the applications and also as a consequence of the instruments used as stellar sensors. The guidance problem may be solved by a variety of computational schemes, using explicit equations or schemes such as Q matrices. The star sensing devices are usually categorized by their detector mechanisms. The three main types used in systems now operational or under development are photomultipliers, vidicon tubes, and solid-state elements. The scanning methods used with these devices range from mechanical drives to electronic schemes using no moving parts. Each of these methods has merits and disadvantages which influence the guidance system designer in his selection. The intended application is the criterion in the type of computational scheme and components that are selected. This paper presents a survey of the above-mentioned aspects of stellar-inertial guidance equipment with a view toward establishing the validity and applicability of conventional inertial guidance test methods to the testing of stellar-inertial equipment."
"An inertial navigation system containing a versatile computer can be given the capability of automatically measuring its gyro mass unbalance. These measurements are accomplished in tests performed and monitored by the computer. Mass-unbalanced drifts induced by tilting the stable platform are detected by the system's acceleration sensors. From the outputs of these sensors, the computer determines the mass-unbalance components using regression-analysis techniques that minimize errors of extraneous origin."
"Research has been conducted on a magnetic induction gyroscope which is included in a class of instruments often referred to as nuclear gyroscopes. The magnetic induction gyroscope employs a set of magnetic fields of specified relative orientation, strength, and frequency applied to a sample of paramagnetic material. The theoretical studies that have been performed show that such a system is sensitive to the common rotation of the sample and the field generating structure, and that voltages proportional to the rotational velocity may be induced in a suitably located coil. This device offers the possibility of developing gyroscopic behavior with little mechanical complexity and with very low drift rates. A preliminary experiment has been performed which verifies the theoretical predictions."
"The effect of position and azimuth errors in a shipborne inertial navigation system on the radial miss of a sea-launched ballistic missile which uses the shipborne system as a reference is discussed. The shipborne system is assumed to be reset and biased, using external position fixes. As a result of this resetting procedure, the latitude, longitude and azimuth errors are found to be statistically highly correlated. This correlation affects the resulting radial miss to a great extent for certain firing angles. It is also illustrated that improved techniques for resetting the shipborne system yield much reduced radial miss. Normalized numerical results are presented."
"This paper investigates the effects of sampling and quantization in a digitally mechanized inertial navigator. A constant altitude, meridian plane, pure Schuler tuned inertial navigator model on a nonrotating earth is used for analysis. Insofar as sampling and quantization effects are concerned, nothing significant is lost by this restriction since the cross-coupling effects are small, and the earth rotation vector components on the platform axes are slowly varying. On the other hand, the analysis is greatly simplified by these restrictions. Time and frequency domain analysis of the sampled-data system is presented and the effects of quantization present at the digital computer input and output are evaluated. It is concluded that root-mean-square position errors can be held to a few thousand feet for a two hour mission, using a sampling rate of the order of one second and a gyro impulse torquer quantization level of about one arc second."
"This paper presents a new method for the synthesis of nonlinear digital control systems to fulfill an optimum performance criterion. The synthesis procedure is developed by use of the state variable and state transition techniques for the nonlinear digital control system with a ramp input. It is not necessary to assume that the sampling operations are synchronous, performed at constant rate and representable by means of an impulse modulator. The use of a digital computer allows this technique to carry out the design of the optimum system."
"A self-contained midcourse guidance system is assumed which uses a combination of optical and inertial equipment. This system would utilize the optical equipment in making automatic subtense measurements on nearby bodies. Position and velocity perturbations would then be determined by making a maximum likelihood fit to this subtense measurement data. Velocity corrections would be introduced at several points along the trajectory to bring the vehicle back to the reference trajectory. The inertial system would be used in controlling the velocity corrections, and the platform would serve as a stable base for the optical equipment. This report gives estimation errors, perturbations, and propulsive fuel requirements for this system on a typical circumlunar mission of 8.7 days' duration."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of upcoming topics of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Man-machine systems may be highly unified and tightly coupled so that they operate practically as a single entity or they may be loosely coupled so that the interfaces are easily discernible and the interaction easily understood whether the interface be close to the biological organism, as in the case of bio-transducers or close to the machine as in conventional digital computers. In most existing cases, however, there is an unnecessary degree of formalization of the intercommunication in terms of an over-simplified clumsy physical or mathematical model or code. It appears possible to develop communication codes based on mathematical models more closely in conformity with indwelling biological codes and thus to facilitate man-machine and other bio-engineering interactions with expected simplification and performance improvement of machine systems and subsequent development of much more tightly knit, effectively functional man-machine systems."
"Information theory is essentially a method for retaining some knowledge of cause-effect relations when the causes, and their effects, become so many that detailed knowledge of each pair is abandoned, while an over-all check is retained that at least the number of causes is sufficient to account for the number of effects. Communication theory has been severely restricted by its original concentration on the ergodic and stationary. Adaptive systems, however, by leaving bad ways of behaving and changing permanently to other (and better) ways of behaving are necessarily nonergodic and nonstationary. The methods of uncertainty analysis (McGill and Garner) seem appropriate here. These methods give a new precision to such questions as: What is a 'system'?-a question that must be answered with precision if a proper theory and dynamics of systems in general is to be built. When systems become complex, their theory is practically that of how to simplify them."
"Based on some earlier concepts, a functional electronic model of the frog retina has been designed and constructed. This system duplicates functionally the four image-feature-abstraction process found by Lettvin and co-workers in the frog retina. From the input image, the model abstracts 1) edges, 2) moving convexities, 3) contrast changes, and 4) net dimming. Information presented to the receptors flows in a parallel mode through successive separate processing layers of the model; this information is preserved as it flows as a transformed \"map\" of the input image. Finally, the processed information is displayed as a spatial map of the four abstracted features of the input image, similar to the \"mapping\" performed in the brain of the frog. The model was constructed using neon-lamp/photoconductive (Ne-Pc) circuits on separate processing layers. These two elements serve the dual purpose of being principal circuit components as well as providing the interconnections between processing planes. In this manner, the inputs to a processing plane are photoconductive cells and and the outputs are neon lamps. This fabrication technique provides the advantages of easy access to individual components, rapid visual inspection of the operation of individual layers, and the simplicity of modifying the system by inserting or removing a particular layer."
"In perceiving color the eye performs a wavelength discrimination process which is analogous to the angular discrimination performed in a tracking radar. There are two basic principles for achieving angular discrimination: 1) multiple detectors with different angular response characteristics and 2) a single detector which scans its response characteristic. Up to now only the multiple-detector approach has been applied to explain the phenomenon of color vision. This paper postulates that the eye employs the scanning discrimination principles to perceive color. A wavelength-dependent effect within the cone causes light of different wavelengths to produce different spatial distributions of energy in the photodetector region. An electrical process scans across this photodetector region producing a modulated waveform which defines the color information. The dc value of the waveform gives the white information, the first harmonic gives the blue-yellow information and the second harmonic gives the green-red information. The phase determines the difference between blue and yellow and between green and red The waveform is demodulated in the retina to generate separate dc voltages which produce the white-black, blue-yellow and greenred sensations."
"Psychophysical experiments on tactile sensations were performed to determine parameters needed in the design of a tactile display containing about one hundred stimulators. This tactile displayis being used to present spatial and temporal patterns to the skin to investigate the pattern recognition capabilities of the tactile sense. Airjet tactile stimulators were used in the experiments because they combine the fine localization property of poke-probe stimulators with the slight adaptation property of vibrators. Two perceptual phenomena that were investigated are apparent location and apparent motion. Apparent location occurs when two airjets of different pressure are sensed as one airjet located on the line connecting the two jets. Pressure difference and apparent location were found to be functionally related. This phenomena was extended to two dimensions with three noncollinear stimulators. Apparent motion occurs when two airjets with different onset times are sensed as one airjet moving between two locations. This phenomenon was found to occur when there was a 0.05-to 0.15-second time difference between the onsets of the two pulses, provided that the pulses overlap by less than 0.2 second. The system used to program the array of approximately 100 tactile stimulators is described."
"A sampled data model was developed to describe the major characteristics of the eye movement control system for nonpredictive tracking. It agrees with experimental transient responses and frequency characteristics for normal eye movements during following of a moving target in a horizontal plane. Furthermore, the model predicts the observed changes in transient and frequency characteristics and the limits of stability as the effective visual feedback is varied by adding the measured eye position to the target command signal."
"One and two dimensional sensory mechanisms, corresponding to one patch and a line array, respectively, of sensory cells are analyzed. A fundamental stimulus conversion law to average neural pulse rate is employed to explain several phenomena in psychophysics. A theory for neural noise is developed which is shown to specify the limits to animal discrimination and to explain certain observed neural mechanisms. Finally, concepts of optimum detection are employed to specify the ideal animal recognition sensory schema as limited by constraints associated with unavoidable neural noise. Actual animal mechanisms appear to follow the ideal. Certain aspects of Gestalt psychology are also evidenced. The general theory provides quantitative insight into artificial animal recognition and information handling systems and indicates the extent to which the capability of a mechanical device can equal or exceed that of its living counterpart. Explicit design considerations for implementation of the ideal artificial animal system are provided."
"Emphasis in research on auditory signal reception has shifted in recent years from studies of the peripheral area alone to include more and more the central portion of the auditory pathways. The findings are characterized by timing mechanisms well balanced between excitatory and inhibitory processes on the one hand and both the selection of auditory information and the concept of two channels of the auditory transmission system on the other. Data on two types of optimizing processes will be presented: the process involved in selecting auditory information and the system responsible for the synergism of frequency (pitch)-and periodicity-analysis. The human CNS selects the 100 bits/sec processed for conscious perception from the 109 bits/sec offered from all sensory receptors in two principal ways: 1) \"Specific auditory information\" is modulated by \"unspecific\" information processed through the recticular formation of the brain stem; 2) The descending fiber systems alter selectively the information-flow on every level of the auditory pathway. The filtered information perceived in turn triggers a set of inborn and learned behavioral responses such as speech, mimicry and motor, altogether representing approximately 107 bits/sec. The system for frequency-and periodicity-analysis of the sensory excitation uses space and time attributes, respectively. Psychophysiological as well as electrophysiological data allow the relating of these two attributes to the two sets of sensory sources, the space on the basilar membrane (inner hair cells) and the time dependence of excitation (predominantly outer hair cells)."
"The concept that the activity of neurons is both passively and actively modified by the surrounding glial and other non-neuronal cells is found in this review to be supported, but not conclusively demonstrated, by recent and previously unreported experiments. The evidence makes such non-neuronal control seem highly likely in the vertebrate retina. In particular, the non-neuronal horizontal cells of the retina were found to sunumate, and apparently to transmit, changes in their membrane potentials (the L-response type of S-potential) over distances many times the span of a single such cell. Available evidence is consistent with the idea that these potential changes can affect the neuronal transmission of excitation from the photoreceptors to the ganglion cells. This is proposed as the basis for a mechanism accounting for the low-luminance portion of light adaptation and for certain retinal functions of spatial summation and movement detection."
"In order to study the structure and acquisition of perception and motor skills, we are simulating on a digital computer some features of a baby's sensorimotor development. The baby comes to be able to recognize and manipulate objects, taking into account their movements and other spatial relationships. He performs purposeful actions naturally described in terms of their effects on his environment rather than in terms of particular muscle movements. For instance, we say that he picks up his rattle rather than saying that he moves certain muscles because from our usual point of view, we care about the act as related to other acts. The movements could have been any of a large number of movements performed by different sets of muscles so long as they combined to produce the desired effect of picking up the rattle. We are trying to learn more about the sequence of development which brings about this purposive regulation of movements. There have been a number of different approaches to problems like these. One is to deal with elements at the neural network level adjusting connection strengths of thresholds, while another is to write computer programs in which symbols may designate complex behavioral acts. We are working somewhere between these levels."
"\"Relational Biology\" is the name given by N. Rashevsky to an approach to biological systems in which, roughly speaking, one seeks to understand the properties of these systems in terms of a decomposition into functional components, rather than into structural components as is commonly done in (metric) biology. An approach of this type seems a most natural way of comprehending the types of organization manifested by biological systems. A number of preliminary results, typical of those obtained by relational techniques, are cited to indicate the scope and potential fruitfulness of this type of approach. The emphasis on a functional rather than a structural orientation, characteristic of Relational Biology, naturally opens the possibility for the realization of systems of biological significance at the engineering level, rather than exclusively at the molecular or biochemical level, as is the case in actual biological systems. The possibility thus arises that close analogs of real biological systems may be constructed and studied, with a resulting enrichment both of our understanding of biological systems in themselves, and of our techniques for the simulation of important biological processes in engineering applications. Some theoretical problems connected with the realizability of abstract functional organizations, which are connected with the above possibilities, are here briefly outlined and discussed."
"Mathematical models of complex physical or bionic systems involve many simultaneous nonlinear equations. These groups of relationships are difficult to manipulate and even simulalation on a computer is unwieldy because most computational paths are multidirectional and are either over-or under-constrained. The foundation and purposes for an algebra of contraints are outlined in this paper. A typical application of constraint algebra would be as a supervisory routine for a digital program that operates on the topological properties of the set of the equations and determines the allowable computational paths. At the conclusion of these logical operations, which are performed with the aid of a constraint matrix, normal programming can be employed for the quantitative operations on the allowable paths. Thus, one more rational function in the man/computer relationship-that of the generation of perfectly constrained relationships-can now be taken over by the computer. The inclusion of a theorem from thermodynamics allows quite a different application: new variables may be deduced from the constraints which, together with their corresponding equations, simplify the model. This ability to synthesize new concepts (variables) and relationships (equations) which tend to simplify models can be considered as an analog for the cognitive process of abstraction."
"The basic model is a two-way communication system in which observer O transmits axioms A, interprets received message S* by rules R of a Post normal logic. O's strategy is to generate (applying R to A) derivations S that minimze d(S, S*), subject, among other things, to R being Turing universal. This implies1 that (A, R: S*) are analogs of complementary observables and interaction potential in quantum mechanics. Here they represent words of binary information symbols (±1): R is a dictionary of pairs (gi : ki), which still can be universal with the restriction, length m(gi) = m0. If m- is the maximum of m(ki), then all k words in R are made up to this length by additions of a neutral symbol (O), so that R is an m0-to-m- function fR on the three values (O, ±1), realizable n fold redundantly by a nm0-to-nm probabilistic net with connexion matrices Mαij and thresholds θj, where θ(m) is random with Poisson distribution. If d(S,S*) is a scalar product, suitable learning algorithm reinforces all connections contributing positively, etc., where input is a current segment of nm0 bits of S*. The quantum condition is realized, essentially, by making Mij periodic in m(S) with period m0."
"The purpose of this paper and the experiments which it describes has been to supply data concerning the power of some Perceptron-like adaptive pattern recognition systems using linear discriminate functions. Three problems have been presented to such a machine: hand-print classification, blood-cell sorting and target identification in gray-scale aerial photographs. Performance of decision functions utilizing corrective training were compared with that obtained by a simple form of Bayes' weighting. In general, the technique of corrective training was found to yield markedly superior results over the training sequence, but the ability to generalize or recognize samples not included in the training sequence was found to be about the same for the two techniques. Analysis of the experimental data permitted a quantitative evaluation of the effects of statistical dependence in the system together with a prediction of terminal error rates for the condition in which the number of A units is made infinitely large."
"An electrical analog of the human ear has been developed to provide real-time cochlear patterns of subjective loudness along the basilar membrane. Resulting spatial patterns may be analogous to those found in the auditory centers of the central nervous system. It is hypothesized that cochlear pattern shapes are of primary importance in the recognition of sound. It is further hypothesized that the cochlea performs a partial analysis of the sound and that the higher analysis centers of the central nervous system perform additional analyses. Concepts and processes of analysis and recognition are developed. Analysis is discussed from the viewpoint of an information mapping process in a multidimensional space. Recognition is discussed as a process of locating unknown points (patterns) in multidimensional space by relative measures to known points. An experiment is described which demonstrates the similarity in recognition between the human and the analog using a recognition function based on cross correlation."
"After a general discussion of pattern recognition as a problem in statistical decision theory, an application of these concepts is made to the recognition of speech sounds by a method which uses the same principles for preprocessing of sound as does the human auditory system. The decision rule found for minimizing the average risk for a specified cost matrix is determined and it is shown that under appropriate conditions a pattern recognition technique which maximizes the cross correlation coefflicient of the signal with a set of functions representing the patterns is equivalent to this optimum decision rule."
"This paper describes signal-processing techniques for the recognition of speech phonemes by machine. An attempt has been made to employ, wherever useful, basic processing functions of the human auditory system. These basic functions include neural interconnections and the mechanical transfer functions of the receptor organs. The neural interconnections bave been simulated by the use of neural logic. The purpose of this paper is to describe the logic networks that have been developed for the abstraction of speech features."
"A function of integral geometry, called the PF image transformation, which is characteristic of the shape of an optical image falling on a viewing retina is defined. Machine programming of the image transformation has been accomplished. Results of the machine computation of the function for a set of random imagery are displayed. It is demonstrated that the transformation yields automatic recognition of general imagery both as to class and as to discrimination between members of the same class."
"Control of behavior and specification of structure requires information. In simple cases lower bounds for the minimum amount of control information required can be computed. The amount of information in the genes of humans and related species is estimated (in different ways). By comparing the information available in the genes with the information required by certain structures and behavior patterns it can be decided what the genes can control and what not. Using an estimate derived from the number of nucleotides in DNA, it is shown that the genes cannot control the interconnections between individual neurons in the human brain in all potential complexity. They must be to some degree random or repetitive. Gene estimates derived from Drosophila studies result in lower estimates (104 to 3.5 × 105 bits). A stimulus-response pattern where all different possible response assignments are equally probable requires a minimum of n log2 n/e bits for n pairs. If antigen-antibody formation would satisfy this assumption, then the infonnation would well exceed the total information contained in the genes. Linguistic notions and their denotations may be considered as unconstrained stimulus-response pairs. A language of 4000 words requires about 5 × 104 bits. Hence a language of the complexity of human language cannot be innate."
"Bionic information storage combines stability and ultramicrominiaturization with self-replication. Rough estimates are given of thermodynamic limitations on stability and bit storage density and observations made on additional constraints self-replicative ability might entail. Reasonable storage stability requirement is bit configurational energy ≥20 kT (~0.5 ev or 10-12 erg) to prevent thermal degradation of information; significant diminution requires low temperature storage. Bit linear dimension is ~10 Å (much smaller goes below molecular size, much larger exceeds known bionic bit size), corresponding to storage density upper limit ~1021 bits/cc. Self-replication by diffusion of \"building blocks\" from solution and short-range chemical forces (e.g., template model) implies one-or two-dimensional structure by accessibility arguments; one dimensional favored over two dimensional to permit separation of copy and model via higher solution entropy of one dimensional. Static storage is more stable in three-dimensional packing via steric considerations, resonance stabilization, or internal H bonding. One thus expects a) three-dimensional bionic packing during inert storage, b) one-dimensional \"unrolled\" actively replicating form, c) rather close approach to ultimate storage density in inert form, d) higher configurational binding energy per bit for self-replicating systems than required for inert storage. These expectations seem to be reasonably well realized in nature."
"The process of learning is manifested by the modification of an organism's response to a given set of input stimuli. This altered response to brought about by a gradual change in the neural logic of the animal's nervous system. The authors show that gradual changes in logic can be achieved by the use of digital and analog properties of the natural prototype. A two-input, one-output neural network is described which gives a continuum of logic functions, including the analog equivalent for each of the sixteen binary functions. This multifunction response is accomplished by varying four interconnecting weighting elements which control the excitatory and inhibitory signals to the three neurons of the network. The logic capabilities of the basic network can be increased by replacing some of its fixed weights with variable ones and expanding the network to accommodate additional input signals. A simple procedure has been developed which automatically sets the weighting elements in a reinforcement learning process. Rapid convergence to the desired logic function is achieved. It is shown that human learning and behavior can be approximated by expanding the flexible neural logic technique to functional networks."
"This paper describes some of the results of a study of polystable systems by simulation on a large-scale computer. The purpose of the simulation was to investigate the behavior of such systems as a function of the characteristics of the individual parts making up the system and the way in which the parts are joined together. A variety of behaviors has been observed by varying these two parameters for various input conditions. The characteristics of the parts or elements making up the system are those of a two-input two-output sequential circuit with four possible internal states. The behavior of the system was observed by plotting the number of elements changing state with time."
"This paper is concerned with the use of analog electrical networks for the automatic recognition of statistical word associations present in written English text. A general mathematical theory is proposed for the association of linguistic units by means of linear transformations, and it is shown that this theory can be realized through use of passive electrical networks. Small-scale and experimental associative networks have in fact been built for information retrieval applications. These devices generate measures of association among index terms used to characterize a document collection, and between the index terms and the documents themselves. Roughly speaking, measures of two distinct types of linguistic association can thus be generated-\"synonymy\" association, which reflects similarity of meaning, and \"contiguity\" association which reflects relationships among designates."
"This report describes the implementation of a high speed self-organizing system based on the reinforcement principle. The self-organizing binary logical network is used as the primary component in the system. The learning system is a 1024 decision element netwolk with a general purpose program to enable the operator to simulate a large number of problems to study machine learning. The simulation of a maze runner problem and the results of some preliminary machine evaluation are presented. The system was developed for the Aeronautical Systems Division's Electronic Technology Laboratory to study complex biological problems."
"Substantial physiological evidence indicates that neuron thresholds and synaptic weights in living creatures are adjusted by mechanisms quite different from those that have ordinarily been proposed in neural net investigations. This paper presents a theoretical model of the plastic neuron in which threshold and synaptic weights are adjusted solely on the basis of the time history of afferent and efferent activity of the neuron. Physiological, psychological and mathematical evidence is presented which supports the postulate that each neuron in living creatures is an autonomous, dynamically self-adjusting unit which is advised (not directed) by higher centers during the adjustnent process. The model duplicates much of the behavior of neurons in experimental preparations, and simulations of small nets have yielded learning behavior apparently similar in some respects to that of living creatures."
"The basic properties of the recently discovered ferrielectrics, which are essentially degenerate antiferroelectrics exhibiting ferroelectric properties, will be discussed. Capacitors having a ferrielectric dielectric possess a true switching threshold field similar to ferrites. This material opens up a large field of new applications. A new device which operates similar to the transfluxor and represents an electrostatically controlled circuit impedance with stored settings will be discussed. This device called the \"transpolarizer\" represents one of the most interesting recent achievements in the semiconductor field. Control of polarization transfer through two or more ferroelectric dielectric sections in series represents a new basic means for storing and gating electrical signals and, in general, a means for controlling circuit impedance in any predetermined manner according to a stored setting. The most interesting feature of the transpolarizer is that, by the application of a control signal, it can be changed from a ferroelectric capacitor into a linear capacitor and can assume any intermediate polarization level between these two limits; furthermore, it is capable of controlling a flow of ac electric power according to its setting. Now, for the first time, it is possible to utilize the combination of electrically controlled resistance, inductance and capacitance in circuit design. Switching and storage properties as well as a threshold switching field are simultaneously present in these new devices. Furthermore, the fact that ferrielectric devices are voltage devices makes these devices extremely useful in the fields of pattern recognition, trainable computers and adaptive control."
"A brief discussion of the past and present progress in bionics is presented. Directions for future research are indicated. Emphasis is placed on some of the United States Air Force bionics programs, both present and planned. Short descriptions are given of each area of endeavor."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of upcoming articles of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Over the past three centuries, the application of mathematics to physics has produced some of the deepest insights into the nature of the universe and into the limitations of human knowledge. Recent indications are that similar insights may come of the application of mathematics to engineering. This article is an account of the field in which this seems to be happening. It surveys the main results of information theory, and of related theories, from the point of view which is likely to become useful in this connection. This article was written originally for the audience of Science, a publication chiefly for persons of nonengineering background. It is reprinted here at the suggestion of the Editor of these TRANSACTIONS, in the hope that it will be diverting, and perhaps also instructive, to an audience of engineers."
"Current interest in high-sensitivity receivers for frequency modulation is centered around two implementations of the device: phase-lock and frequency-feedback. Enloe and later Cahn presented linearized frequency-feedback receiver design theory based on a twin threshold concept. This paper presents the derivation of a quasi-linear model for the frequency-feedback receiver for the situation of Gaussian signals and noise. A statistical optimization is then performed giving the loop transfer function and threshold performance for a maximum sensitivity receiver. The design theory is based on a single threshold concept deviating from previous twin threshold approach. It is shown that in an optimum design the modulation error is less than 1 rad. This allows the use of a narrow-band IF filter and obviates the need to consider threshold characteristics of the discriminator within the loop. A significant result of this analysis is that although the quasi-linear receiver models differ in detail, threshold for a maximum sensitivity FM feedback and for a phase-lock receiver is identical. It was found that in FM feedback, as previously determined by Develet for the phase-lock receiver, threshold occurs at 10 log10(e)= 4.34 db above the ultimate limit determined by information theory arguments. This 4.34-db degradation is independent of modulation index. It is anticipated that the results in this paper will free the design engineer from concern about which device is theoretically better and allow his choice to be influenced solely by hardware considerations."
"The Satellite Control Faciity (SCF) is composed of a central control station and a number of remote tracking stations, several of which contain dual station capability. The primary function of the SCF is to provide real-time communication and control for tests of space vehicles in a dense multiple satellite environment. This paper describes data flow within the SCF, the major functional subsystems involved, the resource scheduling and finally the manner in which the network is being controlled by a complex of computer generated real-time scheduling functions."
"The principles of operation of broad-band microwave radiometers are discussed. Formulas are given for the performance of various receiver configurations, and the effects of variations in stability of gain, noise figure, and reference signal are discussed. A range equation is formulated showing the interrelationships among the various system parameters of a typical airborne mapping radiometer. Figures of merit are defined and discussed for the targets, antenna, receiver, and flight conditions."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of upcoming articles of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The rate of production of neutrons by geomagnetically trapped protons incident on a vehicle was measured by a neutron counting system carried into the trapped radiation belt by a pod flow piggy back on an Atlas rocket on December 19, 1961. The flux of neutrons produced by radiation belt protons incident on the pod was determined to be at least 700 neutrons/(cm2 sec); the actual value depends somewhat on the energy spectrum of the neutrons. This flux was estimated to be equivalent to a dose rate in tissue of 0.10 rems/hr. On the basis of proton flux measurements made in the radiation belt by Freden and White, a calculation was made of the tissue dosage which would have been received in the same environment directly from protons. These calculations were made by obtaining a numerical integration of the dE/dx times RBE times flux product over the entire energy spectrum. The total dose calculated amounted to 2.78 rems/ hr. Further calculations were made to estimate the dose rates which would have been received by tissue in the same environment but with varying amounts of shielding around the vehicle. The proton dose is, of course, reduced by the shield but the neutron dose actually increases as the shielding thickness is increased. It is seen that the neutron dose equals the proton dose at .3 rems/hr. when aluminum shielding of 2.6\" surrounds the vehicle and it exceeds the proton dose with thicker shielding."
"In order to estimate the magnitude of the radiation hazard presented by solar flare and Van Allen belt proton radiation, a simple spherical-shell shield geometry was chosen and physical dose calculatved as a function of shell thickness. Both point-target and body-phantom definitions of dose were used to define the primary particle dose. The secondary particles formed in the shield are shown to contributve a significant fraction of the total dose in the case of the 10 May 1959 flare spectrum and an aluminum shield."
"The damage by radiation that can be expected during the storage of hydrogen-bonded propellants in outer space is analized in terms of the available data on radiation levels. On this basis, the alternatives of storing the propellants as liquids or as solids, at low temperature, are discussed, and account is taken of recent results on their thermal behaviour obtained at this Laboratory. Vitreous states of aggregation that could crystallize spontaneously after long periods of irradiation are shown to present some hazards that can be prevented. General considerations of radiation-damage detection in outer space are also made. Paramagnetic resonance is found to be of limited use although it could be used for studying the damage produced by intense solar flares. Solid-state devices are finally recommended."
"Circuitry has been designed and constructed which is able to analyze and reproduce accurately the slope and pulse height at various points along a rapidly changing signal which occurs only once. The signal is analyzed at 10-nanosecond intervals. This circuitry is also able to sense a zero slope per unit time and in this mode it can be used as a multichannel pulse height analyzer with a dead-time which is dependent only on the rise time of the pulses it is analyzing (pulse pair resolution of 10-7 seconds for random pulses with a 0.1-μsec rise time is possible). The model under discussion has a maximum storage capacity of 160 channels with 28 bits of information per channel."
"The most efficient use of telemetry channels is always a paramount problem of space flight projects. Monitoring radiation fields in space often requires coverage of large ranges of count rate which, if count rate meters are to be used, means either a decrease in resolution due to coverage of the entire range with one rate meter or use of several telemetry channels if several different rate meters are used. This paper describes a unique method permitting the desired resolution to be obtained by use of as many count rate meters as required while limiting the number of telemetry channels needed to two. A circuit switches one telemetry channel from one rate meter to the next as the input rate changes, while the other telemetry channel is used to monitor which rate meter is being read out."
"In the design of particle accelerators, magnets are sometimes used to bend the paths of charged particles in linear accelerators for focusing and defocusing purposes. These magnets, in the present case, are known as quadrupoles. Their design hinges on the solution of certain mathematical expressions of particle trajectories. A computer of the analog type was constructed to solve the equations and so facilitate magnet design. The analog computer for this application has dials labeled \"L\", \"μ\", and \"θ\". The settings of these dials represent the design parameters under study. The operator can set the dials of each stage to any of thousands of different combinations of L, μ, and θ. The results of his settings may be observed on a CRO screen. He can then proceed to search for the best combination of control settings with regard to their effect on particle trajectories. Once having found a satisfactory combination, the corresponding magnet design parameters are obtained from the settings of the controls. Three features of construction required special consideration. These were: the high gain, minimum phase shift, and minimum crosstalk. These items and others are discussed in the article from the practical as well as the theoretical point of view."
"Improvements in detector resolution and increases in the sophistication of nuclear experiments have placed an entirely new emphasis on linear amplifier design. Just a few years ago it was necessary to have specialized amplifiers to deal with each specific problem. The lack of flexibility now plaguing most existing linear pulse amplifying systems is often quite annoying to the user. Invariably, the user will find the amplifying system failing in part to provide either adequate stability, polarity reversibility, clipping mode selection, control of rise and fall times, adequate control of gain, or threshold cut and expansion. What usually ensues is that large amounts of time and effort are expended in modifying existing amplifiers in order to accomplish the particular job at hand, or the Job is done with an existing system where poor amplifier performance is accepted as a necessary evil. In the past several years many notable pulse amplifiers have been produced. Among these are the DD-2, the A-8, and the alpha amplifiers designed under the direction of Fairstein, Borkowski, and Blankenship at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Although these amplifiers show exceptional performance in their particular specialized application, all of these amplifiers lack the flexibility desired in a modern general-purpose laboratory amplifier. What is needed today is an amplifying system possessing the best basic features of these highly successful amplifiers with the addition of the features mentioned earlier to obtain greater flexibility and therefore greater utility. In early 1961, an amplifying system of this type was introduced at LRL."
"The design of the nuclear instrumentation system for the Pluto series of nuclear ramjet test reactors is an attempt to provide a very flexible nuclear sensing system that will be adequate for Tory II-C and following test reactors. The nuclear detectors will be exposed to the leakage neutron flux from the reactor during operation. Since the leakage flux is proportional to reactor power, the neutron detectors will give a measure of reactor power. A difficulty in providing nuclear instruments for this reactor is the uncertainty in the neutron energy spectrum of the leakage flux at the detectors. Since detector response varies with neutron energy, a large margin of flexibility is desirable. A difficulty which may be encountered is a significant shift in neutron energy spectrum at high power and temperature. This would make indicated nuclear power nonlinear with calorimetric power. A difficulty in insufficient instrument overlap was encountered with the Tory II-A experiment where a large margin of flexibility would have been useful. The detector placement for the Tory II-A experiment had the power range detectors in line with the reactor and main air pipe. At high air flows there was a much greater mass of air between the detectors and the reactor, allowing fewer neutrons to reach the detectors per unit reactor power. This is the reason for the power range detectors being placed off to the side of the Tory II-C test vehicle. Not all difficulties can be foreseen, but provision is made where possible to overcome them."
"This paper describes a method for predicting transistor reliability as a function of nuclear radiation exposure, through the use of the Weibull distribution. Graphical plots of seven different types of transistors show ac gain degradation as a function of integrated neutron exposure. The plots on Weibull graph paper are extended to include probability of failure to 0.1 and 0.01 percent. The graphs are interpreted and the plotting technique and assumptions for extrapolation of the Weibull distribution are discussed."
"The effects produced by different types of nuclear radiation can be compared by making use of the available information on radiation-effects mechanisms. One can separate radiation-effects manifestations into three categories: transient radiation effects, which are due to excited and ionized electrons; displacement radiation effects, which are manifestations of atoms displaced from their normal lattice sites in crystalline solids; and chemical radiation effects, which are due to molecular rearrangements occurring as a second stage to ionizing interactions. The effects produced by different primary radiations can be compared by first identifying the manifestation as belonging to one of these three types. For displacement effects one should then compute the relative cross sections for producing displaced atoms and the average size of the displacement cascade produced by the primary recoil atom. Similarly, for transient and chemical effects one should compute the ionization density produced by the incident radiation. Examples of the pertinent cross sections have been calculated for electrons, gamma rays, protons, and neutrons of various energies."
"The electrons and protons of the Van Allen Belt cause radiation damage to silicon solar cells which results in a gradual reduction of the power output of solar power plants on satellites passing through the Belt. The study of the radiation damage caused by monoenergetic electrons and by monoenergetic protons of various energy indicates that N on P solar cells are substantially more radiation resistant than the commonly used P on N cells. From such studies and a knowledge of the composition of the Van Allen Belt, a flux of, for example, 1 Mev electrons can be determined that will cause the same radiation damage per unit time to a bare solar cell as the Van Allen Belt spectrum would produce under a given shielding. Observations of radiation damage on satellites are also conveniently expressed in terms of such an equivalent flux. Measurements of solar cell short circuit current changes and changes in the current gain of specially designed highly radiation sensitive transistors have been performed on the Telstar satellite. The results are in general agreement with the radiation damage expected from the observed particle flux and they indicate that solar power is practical for long-life satellites passing through the Van Allen Belt, particularly if N on P solar cells are used."
"Space radiation can cause damage to satellite electronic systems. The amount of damage can be determined if the radiation induced component changes are known and if the behavior of the electronic system as a function of component changes can be determined. By relating space radiation damage to neutron damage, a large amount of semiconductor device data becomes available for satellite damage predictions. To obtain circuit and system performance from component performance in an economical way analysis is combined with experimental techniques. The experimental technique involves substitution of radiation degraded components into the circuit and measurement of its performance. The application of such techniques to satellite electronics indicates that performance degradation caused by lifetime reduction resulting from space radiation can generally be kept small, particularly, if modern high frequency transistors are used. However, ionization of the semiconductor environment from the artificial electron belt may cause significant surface effects resulting in a reduction in device performance even for shielding of several gm/cm2."
"Collisions involving electrons, photons, and atomic systems are important in upper atmospheric and astrophysical phenomena and in the exploration of space. Some of these types of reactions are enumerated and described. Examples are given of their significance with respect to diffusion in the atmosphere; radio communications and radar tracking; the excitation and study of the airglow and aurorae; the Van Allen radiation belts; estimation of densities, composition, and temperatures of nebulae and stellar atmospheres; the mapping of hydrogen in interstellar space; and the erosion of space vehicles and planets. Some of the work at the Georgia Institute of Technology on ion mobilities, ion-molecule reactions, ionization, and charge transfer is described."
"The acceleration of a gas undergoing ionization in a crossed electric-magnetic field leads to the formation of current sheets similar to those observed in coaxial plasma guns. The dynamics of such sheets is of great interest to workers in plasma physics in view of their application to controlled thermonuclear fusion experiments and to space propulsion. In the present paper a detailed mapping of the magnetic field in the vicinity of a current sheet is described. Conventional small search coils are used for the detection of this field. From the configuration of this field an attempt is made to understand the processes taking place in the sheet. All of the experiments described in the paper are performed on a plasma coaxial gun of mall aspect ratio."
"Experiments are reviewed which measure the three-body volume recombination coefficient of neutral nitrogen atoms in nitrogen gas making use of an electron spin resonance (ESR) technique to determine the atomic concentration. The nitrogen atoms were created in an electrodeless discharge and were carried to the ESR detector by a stream of flowing gas. The temperature dependence of the atomic recombination coefficient near 300°K and the number of photons emitted in the Rayleigh afterglow bands per recombination have been determined. It has been found that the loss rate of nitrogen atoms is considerably enhanced when the atomic stream is exposed to a feeble DC discharge. The removal mechanism appears to be one of ionization of nitrogen atoms by electronic bombardment followed by a comparatively rapid ambipolar diffusion. If, however, the stream of atoms passes through a region containing a decaying afterglow plasma in nitrogen where the electronic temperature is low, it is observed that the electronic ambipolar diffusion coefficient is enhanced in the presence of atoms. The above implies an energy transfer mechanism between the recombining atoms and the cool electrons. This effect is presently being explored by observing the change in light emitted by the nitrogen electronic afterglow and the change in electronic concentration and electron-neutral collision frequency with microwaves upon intoducing atoms into the afterglow plasma."
"The propagation of electromagnetic radiation from 500 to 4200 Mc in a coaxial cage transmission line passing through a cylindrical discharge chamber is investigated experimentally. Measurements were conducted in argon, helium, and nitrogen gas at pressures between 0.09 mm Hg and 2 mm Hg for a discharge-electromagnetic radiation interaction length of 30.48 cm. The results are compared with theory using a Lorentzian model to describe the electron motion in the presence of the RF field. A graphical method for determining the plasma frequency and electron momentum transfer collision frequency from measurements of the power transmission coefficient at two different radio frequencies is discussed. A comparison is made between the plasma frequency determined by this method and that obtained by the use of a cylindrical Langmuir probe. The electron momentum transfer collision probability is calculated from the RF and probe data."
"With the advent of hard superconductors, thermonuclear fusion reactors can be seriously considered as a continuous power source for high-powered interplanetary missions. Assuming a solution will be forthcoming to solve the plasma instability and confinement problems, a preliminary study is presented showing the relationship of pertinent plasma parameters. The set of equations describing these pertinent parameters indicates a typical 25 megawatt net power motor could be expected to operate at a plasma ion density of ~1014/cm3 and an average ion temperature of ~105 kev. The plasma would be confined by a magnetic field of approximately 50 kilogauss, with a total motor weight of approximately 25,000 lbs. The reacting plasma is assumed within a multipolar magnetic confinement geometry. The power lost to neutrons by most fusion reactors shows that 3He-D is the unique fusion reaction suitable for space propulsion. The relationship of plasma particle density, ion temperature, and confining magnetic field to total fusion power is presented. The significant plasma losses of bremsstrahlung and gyromagnetic radiation are discussed and equations describing their relationship to the plasma parameters are calculated. The consequences resulting from different values of ß (the ratio of plasma to magnetic confinement pressures) are investigated. All equations are derived with ß as a dependent variable. Necessary average plasma containment time is studied to indicate the magnitude of required average plasma confinement time. The rate of generation of both DD and DT neutrons is investigated over the range of interest."
"The surface of the moon can be analyzed by nuclear methods, particularly fast neutron activation, by means of a pulsed miniature neutron generator. Information can be derived from the activation gama ray spectrum, capture radiation, neutron moderation times, natural gamma rays, and gama rays scattered from a gamma ray source."
"Nuclear semiconductor detectors have been limited in their dynamic range of linearity of pulse height versus energy for charged particle spectrometry because of (1) the depth of the sensitive volume, (2) the thickness of any entrance window, and (3) the noise level of the detector-amplifier system. Consideration has been given to extend the range of sensitivity by increasing the volume of the detector by lithium ion drift compensation and to increase the sensitivity to lower energies by removing any entrance window and reducing the noise level of the detector and the amplifier."
"Tests have been carried out on a group of commercially available silicon radiation detectors of both diffused junction and surface barrier types. Measurements were made of reverse current and RMS noise level as a function of applied bias voltage in air and vacuum, alpha particle pulse height and energy resolution, and thickness of the sensitive surface dead layer. Long term stability was evaluated for samples in air and in vacuum by periodic measurements of reverse current, RMS noise voltage, and the pulse height and energy resolution for 5.8 Mev alpha particles. The samples in the vacuum tests were maintained at rated bias voltage and a pressure of approximately 10-6 Torr continuously for a period of six months. Only minor changes were observed in the performance characteristics of the devices. This work was sponsored by the Aeronautical Research Laboratory of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Office of Aerospace Research, United States Air Force."
"Gas filled proportional counters for detection of photons in the 0.1 to 20. Kev energy range have been constructed. Photons harder than a few Key are detected by sealed-off counters having thin Be windows. Photons softer than a few Kev are detected by thin window (~30 μgms/cm2 of formvar) flow counters. Both types of counters were specifically constructed for an attempt to observe celestial sources of soft x-rays. An instrument for alternately measuring electrons and protons having energies in the 0.1 to 20. Kev energy range has also been constructed. Energy analysis is accompliahed in an electrostatic field which deflects accepted particles by 90°. Bare electrostatic electron multipliers are used for particle detection. Inclusion of two multipliers, with quite different geometric factors, allows observation of a flux whose differential energy spectra varies rapidly with particle energy. In particular, the instrument was especially designed to measure auroral electron spectra as steep as those observed by McIlwain. Details of the design and operation of each of these counters will be given."
"The application of semiconductor junction radiation detectors1 to penetrating radiation depends on the production of devices having thick depletion layers. In this connection the lithium drift technique developed by Pell2,3,4 has been employed with considerable success5,6,7,8,9. A difficulty encountered with this method is the long time required to produce compensated regions a few millimeters or more in thickness. However it can be shown that the compensated region produced by drifting at constant temperature is proportional to the cube root of the total energy dissipated in the drifting process. This indicates the importance of operating at the highest attainable power at all times, and has led to the design of a system employing a fluorocarbon liquid as a vapor phase coolant in conjunction with a pulsed constant wattage supply. Significantly improved drift rates have been achieved with this technique, which has the added advantage of being well suited to the simultaneous drifting of a number of detectors at constant power from a single power supply."
"Methods for detecting nuclear explosions, at about one-fourth earth-moon distances, from ground based detection systems are discussed. At such distances the detectable signals conveniently devide into direct signals, originating in the explosion vicinity, and indirect signals arising in the ionosphere as a result of absorption of so-called thermal X-rays from the incandescent nuclear device. Several different detection systems are discussed from the point of view of the signal producing mechanisms and the natural background signals with which they must compete. It is found that there are at least five different detection methods available for detecting a 10 Kt test at this range which could be integrated to become a high altitude detection station."
"High altitude nuclear detonations can affect the ionization of the lower ionosphere through a number of mechanisms. Three of the more important ones listed in their order of occurrence and in order of increasing time of onset are: (1) Prompt effect created by the prompt x-rays, gamma rays and neutrons from the bomb. The horizontal extent of this effect can range from rather limited regions resulting from sub-ionospheric burst heights to a hemisphere for a space burst. Registration of the rapid onset times of the prompt effects appears to afford a useful method for distinguishing between bomb-induced and natural effects. (2) Neutron-beta decay effects can affect up to one-half the earth, depending upon burst height. The onset time is rapid and also affords a basis for discrimination from natural events. (3) Delayed debris effects can result from gammas or betas radiated from the debris cloud in the region of the burst. The horizontal extent of the ionization depends upon the size of the debris cloud and the travel distance of the ionizing radiations. Enhanced ionization can also be created in regions magnetically conjugate in the Northern and Southern hemispheres. In the first two cases the ionization will decay (seconds to minutes)4 but in the last case the effect may persist for several days."
"A description is given of the U.K.A.E.A. work in the detection of atomic weapons. A brief review is given of the various types of detection problems that have been studied in the U.K. and three examples taken in detail, namely V.L.F phase anomaly, telluric currents and upper atmosphere fluorescence. The results using these tbree methods detection are briefly presented. Pull details of detection systems and explanations of some of the results presented in the report will be the subject of individual reports."
"In order to study the atmospheric pressure perturbations produced by the passages of gravity and acoustic-gravity waves through the atmosphere, a sensitive rate of change instrument (microbarovariograph) has been developed at Lamont. Similar instruments of different design have also been in successful opertion at several other institutions here and abroad. In general, this instrumentation has also proven capable of recording the pressure variations from nuclear explosions in the megaton range for distances which depend on the magnitude and elevation of the initial explosion. The Lamont pressure transducer is a U-tube manometer using a stable liquid plasticizer, dioctyl sebacate, of very low thermal expansion, vapor pressure and creep. One side of the system is connected to a fixed insulated air reservoir or compliant volume. An adjustable leak in parallel controls the long period time constants. Fluctuations of the liquid level in the open end are sensed by a moving coil in a differential transformer whose 60-cycle output is directly proportional in magnitude to the level changes, provided such changes are small. The signal, amplified and demodulated, gives a sensitivity of about 0.030 millibars (30 dynes per cm2) per cm of scale deflection for a stop displacement. A DC post amplifier can give a sensitivity of about 0.001 millibars (1 dyne per cm2) per cm of scale deflection. At the higher sensitivity, special hydraulic filtering procedures must be employed on the transducer in order to reduce atmospheric noise. Broad band recording is best accomplished at the lower sensitivity."
"Underground explosions are detectable at long ranges only by recording and analyzing seismic waves. The signals received are highly distorted as a result of multi-path propagation, dispersion, mode conversion, and scattering. The result is that signals from explosions tend to be similar to those recorded from thousands of small earthquakes which occur each year. The basic detection problem thus becomes one of sorting out suspicious events from the many natural events recorded. No way of identifying explosions by seismic means is now known, but methods of identifying a fair proportion of natural events exist and are being improved. The remaining occurrences in the suspicious category could be identified only if other kinds of information were available."
"The paper provides a brief review of the status in late 1962 of the VELA UNIFORM effort for developing and testing on-site inspection techniques. Of the techniques tested to date, it is tentatively concluded that ten had utility under the conditions existing at the GNOME event in southeastern New Mexico and at the Nevada Test Site locale of the NOUGAT-STORAX underground nuclear explosion series. Promising techniques include visual and photographic reconnaissance, changes in solid-state characteristics of certain minerals, gamma ray surveys, and after-shock monitoring. Problems still exist with respect to deeply buried explosions, polar areas, and regions of shallow water cover."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The results of a study program to determine a proton-neutron damage correlation in semiconductors are presented. Three approaches were undertaken: Theoretical, Empirical using data from existing literature, and Experimental. The results of the theoretical studies show that damage processes between the neutrons and protons are basically different in silicon. Damage from neutron irradiation is characterized by the effective cross sectional area of the cluster of displaced atoms and is relatively independent of the type of impurity. Damage from protons, on the other hand, is dominated by the defects involving impurities. For this reason, theoretically derived damage \"cross sections\" for each different type of bambarding particle must be based on different (and independent) physical properties of the semiconductor material. In the empirical study using the data from the literature, it was not possible to determine a reliable proton-neutron correlation. Spread in neutron damage data due to irradiation of different types of devices, inadequate data reporting and no data on similar type semiconductors under both neutron and proton irradiation contributed to this result. The experimental program was carried out on silicon solar cells under fission and moderated neutrons and proton energies of 48.5, 68.9, and 96.5 Mev. A proton-neutron correlation for the diffusion length damage was determined and the ratios of the proton to neutron damage varied frmn 0.6 to 4.8 depending on the proton energy and neutron spectrum."
"The variable coincidence gate is a multifunction logic unit designed for use with the HASL quarter chassis line of nuclear instrumentation. It provides a flexible unit which is applicable to several of the techniques used for counting radioactive events. The circuit can be used for prompt, delayed and decay coincidence, anticoincidence, and pulse height window measurements. It also operates as a signal generator of paired pulses and of delayed pulses. The unit is 3 1/2\" high by 9 1/2\" wide and 6\" deep."
"A brief description of the transistorized modular nuclear instrumentation developed for use at Yale is presented in this paper. The salient advantages of this system including greatly reduced space and power requirements, increased reliability, flexibility and convenience of use through a library of circuit elements and finally, ease of assembly of complex systems and of servicing are stressed. Emphasis is also placed on the importance of very close liaison between the instrument design and development engineer and the scientific users of the instrumentation."
"A linear amplifier suitable for high counting rates is described. The amplifier uses double-delay-line shaping to minimize base line shifts and to enable timing signals to be obtained from the zero crossover. Miniature delay lines are used and the amplifier is designed to work with lines as short as 100 nanoseconds. It has a maximum gain of 500 and a rise time of 18 nanoseconds. To minimize delay line reflections, the lines are terminated at both ends. A novel circuit is used to obtain the delay line shaping. The amplifier has good overload characteristics and is constructed very compactly. It plugs into a frame designed to accomodate a series of compatible circuits of modular design. The front panel space required is 3.6 by 7 inches. Circuitry and performance are described."
"An automatic scintillation counter for the measurement of low beta activity samples is described. Background is in the order of one (1) count per minute. Efficiency of counting for K-40 betas is thirty (30) per cent. The scintillator is a thin plastic phosphor mounted on the sample which makes a simple, rugged package suitable for automatic sample changing. Photomultiplier tube noise measurements, preamplifier circuit, and the mechanical details are discussed."
"We can readily., summarize the significant points that have been elicited from these experiments. 1. The response of this type of dosimeter is fundamentally reproducible. It is felt that increased uniformity can be achieved by further optimization and control of the processing techniques. 2. The dosimeter can be given the desired, almost linear, sensitivity in the biological dose range of interest by selection of an appropriate base width (somewhere between 40 and 60 mils). 3. The response of the dosimeter is independent of the delivery rate of the neutron flux, up to a rate of at least 107 rads per second. 4. The dosimeter essentially does not respond to gamma radiation in the energr and dose ranges of interest. 5. The response of the dosimeter is essentially independent of its orientation with respect to the direction of the incident neutron flux. U. The dosimeter is subject to a significant amount (from 10 to 20 per cent) of room temperature anneal during the first few days after initial exposure. 7. The sensitivity of an exposed dosimeter changes when the device is anmealed at elevated temperatures. 8. The response of the dosimeter appears to be dependent on the energies of the incident neutrons. Some of these points refer to desirable features of the fast neutron dosimeter. The und-ersirable features, we feel, can be remedied or accounted for through further research and development efforts."
"Four recent developments have contributed significantly to broadening the scope of dc particle-acceleration systems: 1. Tandem principle of utilizing the generated high-voltage several times; 2. Insulating-core transformer for generating high-voltage dc power; 3. Inclined-field acceleration tube that minimizes the \"total voltage effect, a previous limitation of dc acceleration systems; 4. Ion-source and beam-optical designs to increase useful ion intensities and to improve efficiency of transporting accelerated dc beams. These developments are currently being incorporated, in various combinations, into several dc accelerator designs, including: a. Sub-Mev electron and positive-ion accelerators with high beam power; b. Tandem Van de Graaff accelerators with at least 10 million-volt potential; c. Powerful Tandem accelerator at moderate voltage and very high current. Typical systems arising out of these advances are described in the light of applications now being exploited in research and industry."
"A logarithmic amplifier is described which is composed entirely of solid state components. Logarithmic characteristics can be improved by the compensation of low saturation current Si-diodes with an appropriate Ge-diode. By the use of reverse-biased Si-diode dielectric modulator as the input stage of the amplifier, an input resistance of 5 × 1010 ohms and a signal threshold of 10-11 amp. are obtained at room temperature. A range of 7 decades is covered, that is, from 5 × 10-11 to 5 × 10-4 amp., with the accuracy less than ±2% of a decade and the temperature drift less than ±0.005 dec./°C over a temperature range from 0°C to 50°C."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A nuclear radiation effects conference was held in Toronto during the week of 17 June 1963 in conjunction with the Summer General Meeting of the IEEE. Altogether, there were ten half-day sessions at which a total of forty papers were presented treating the effects of reactor, weapon, and space radiatio~ environments on a variety of electronic materials, piece parts and circuits. In this issue we are presenting a number of papers which were given at the conference. Unfortunately some authors of the conference papers had prior commitments for pub1ication and so their papers could not be included. The issue is devided into three sections. The first consists of two invited papers which are tutorial. These provide an excellent summary of the state of the art in many aspects of \"permanent\" damage and transient-radiation effects. The following two sections contain contributed papers which have been divided into two categories determined by the time history of the radiation source. Experiments performed with so~rces whose radiation rate is more or less constant in time are treated first. This section includes papers concerned wIth space radiation, transit radiation, and steady state sources used for permanent damage studies. The second category, or third section, includes papers on phenomena which are observed when pulsed sources such as flash x-ray machines, 1inacs and pulsed reactors are used. As a final word on organization, we should 1ike to emphasize that \"permanent\" damage may result from pulsed as well as from steady state radiation. Hence, one who is only interested in \"permanent\" radiation effects may still find valuable information in all three sections."
"Transient radiation effects are defined to be manifestations of electrons excited in materials, i. e., ionization effects. Manifestations of particular interest are the emission of secondary electrons from surfaces, conduction in ionized gases, semiconductors and insulators, and the emission and absorption of optical radiation by excess electrons. In each case the processes can be described as a sequence leading from the primary interaction of the incident nuclear radiation with an atom in the target material through the slowing down of the electrons which are detached in this interaction to the eventual recapture or trapping of the free electrons. Most of the phenomena can be described in terms of a mean lifetime for the electrons and a mobility. Assuming reasonable values for these quantities, calculations can be performed to estimate the order of magnitude of transient effects in typical materials and electronic components."
"There is a growing interest in the effects of radiatio on the properties of magnetic materials, with greater activity abroad (on both sides of the Iro Curtain) than in the United States. While several of the papers are extensive in nature, reporting results on a variety of materials, the trend is toward more intensive investigations of selected materials, with the goal of identifylng more exactly the nature of the radiation induced dmage. Pure metals, as well as order-disorder type alloys, are of particular interest. While many results have been reported, most conclusions to date concerning the nature of defects are indefinite."
"It has previously been found that semiconductor devices employing various gas encapsulation techniques exhibited significant alterations of their electrical responses under gamma and neutron exposure. Since the neutron bombardment produces bulk or volume damage, the device surface environment has little effect on the neutron induced changes. It has been observed that gamma exposures at doses well below the threshold for permanent damage have caused changes in several electrical characteristics of transistors and diodes which may be described as of surface origin. The parameters exhibiting significant change are the transistor ICBO and the reverse biased diode leakage current. This paper will describe the results of experiments performed to study the effects of exposure to gamma radiation on selected silicon transistors when coated with a low temperature melting glass. The surface sensitive parameters of the coated transistors degraded to a much lesser extent than observed for the gas encapsulated units, indicating a more favorable surface environment to minimize the effect of gamma radiation. Comparison of the glass coated transistors with devices employing a planar structure incorporating a silicon-oxide coating on the device material surface yielded comparable results. The results of these experiments are consistent with the model proposed to explain this effect and its various ramifications."
"Surface effects caused by ionizing radiation have been found to result in serious parameter changes in certain transistors. These effects include large increases in leakage current, changes in gain, and increases in noise. Studies have been made of the effects of dose, dose rate, bias, transistor environment, and surface protection, in addition to the phenomena of recovery and memory. The greatest changes occur when bias and radiation are applied simultaneously to a gas-encapsulated silicon transistor with unprotected surfaces. Most of these effects can be qualitatively explained through the use of a simple model of the process. Radiation ionizes the encapsulating gas, and the resulting ions and electrons are directed to transistor surfaces by electric fields at the junction surfaces and between the transistor and its can. Inversion layers are produced at the surface which grossly change certain transistor parameters. The great variability among devices of the same type suggests that the gas ions interact with the surface by imparting charge to surface contaminants. Detailed investigation of the influence of electric fields between a transistor structure and its can have been carried out on special gas-encapsulated mesa and planar transistors which are electrically insulated from their cans. Results indicate that inversion layers on both collector and base are affecting ICBO. while, as would be expected, gain is altered principally by an inversion layer on the base. In the gasencapsulated planar devices the effect of can bias on ICBO is greatly reduced and its effect on gain is practically zero."
"As a part of a study of nuclear radiation effects on shipboard electronic equipment, a large number of commonly used transistor types have been irradiated in similated transit radiation fields. A wide range was observed in the amount of radiation induced effects on gain and reverse leakage current, even within a group of one type of transistor. In general, only temporary changes were observed, with silicon types exhibiting smaller changes than the germanium units. For germanium types, reverse leakage current changed by a factor of 10-20 for some units while gain changed by a factor of 2 or less, with the change persisting in some types."
"Selected transistors and diodes have been irradiated by various types and energies of dislocating radiation. Irradiation by protons of 10-Mev, neutrons of a reactor spectrum, electrons of 5, 10, and 25-Mev, gamma rays from cobalt-60, and bremsstrahlung from stopping of 5-Mev electrons are discussed. Passive and dynamic monitoring of permanent radiation damage was performed for exposures ranging from \"threshold\" to failure doses, utilizing various exposure rates. Changes in transistor forward current gain and changes in diode lifetime are presented in terms of integrated \"particle\" flux. From such analysis, the feasibility of ascribing an equivalence of radiation particles for aermanent damage in transistors and diodes has been successfully shown. Comparative damage curves, correlations of operational degradation with defect densities, and preliminary equivalences are presented."
"GaAs and Si n/p cells were irradiated with 100 kev and 17.6 Mev protons, and 0.8 and 5.6 Mev electrons. The resulting difference in performance is interpreted in terms of the initial lifetime and the photo-absorption process. It is concluded that GaAs cells can deliver a given power longer than Si cells in a radiation field of high-energy protons and electrons. Thin shields will be required for both cells in environments of low-energy protons. It is suggested that the recombination centers introduced in silicon by high-energy particles are more effective than those introduced by 0.8 Mev electrons."
"Various types of silicon solar cells have been irradiated with 4.6 - 4.8 Mev protons in two separate experiments. In the first experiment, variations included the bulk material, impurity concentration, and oxygen concentration; the second experiment involved the cells of various manufacturers. Changes in diffusion length, spectral response, and efficiency under sun-like illumination are presented. Annealing effects in terms of the aforermentioned parameters are given. Comparison of the effects of this damage to that of 1 Mev electrons is made. Some preliminary results on the effects of proton damage to GaAs photovoltaic cells are also mentioned."
"Following an analysis of the basic radiation damage processes in semiconductors, and an analysis of existing radiation effects data, a proton-neutron damage equivalence was experimentally determined for silicon solar cells. The basis for comparison is the degradation of minority carrier lifetime during irradiation, as expressed by the lifetime damage constant, KL, or the diffusion length damage constant, KL . Both p on n cells and n on p cells were irradiated with 96, 69, 48 Mev protons, and with fission and moderated neutrons. Measurements were made on the degradation of the solar cell dark voltage-current characteristics, the forward bias characteristics under one sun illumination, and the short circuit current response to monochromatic illumination of one micron wavelength. The degradation of minority carrier diffusion length was calculated from the short circuit current response at one micron. From the analysis of radiation damage processes in silicon, the derivation of a theoretical proton-neutron damage equivalence was hindered by inadequately developed theory relating the number and type of active defects associated with the vacancies created by the incident particles. The analysis of available data indicate that a reliable proton-neuton damage equivalence in Si or Ge is not possible, due to the spread in the existing damage constants and the absence of damage constants for proton and neutron irradiations of equivalent samples. The experimentally determined proton to neutron ratio of minority carrier diffusion length damage constants in silicon solar cells ranges from 0.96 to 4."
"This paper describes results of tests made to determine the performance of digital computer circuits in a transit radiation environment. These tests were sponsored by the Bureau of Ships under direct cognizance of the Naval Radiological Defense Laboratory as part of a study of nuclear radiation effects on shipboard electronic equipment. The transit radiation is emitted by airborne weapon fission products after the fireball and cloud column have dispersed. The transit radiation was simulated by use of cobalt-60 gamma radiation to a maximum dose rate of 3 × 105 roentgens/ hour and to a maximum dose of 1.5 x 104 roentgens. The circuits tested consisted of conventional transistor digital circuitry with 11 to 32 components mounted on each printed wire card. A total of 72 cards of twelve types were actively tested using the manufacturer's acceptance specifications as a basis for determining proper performance. Circuit performance was recorded by photographing the oscilloscope display of circuitwaveforms at regular intervals during a test. As a result of the radiation measurable changes occurred in the output waveforms of some of the circuits, but in no instance did the circuit performance become unacceptable because of the radiation."
"Several operational magnetic amplifier stages of low and medium power levels were designed and tested in a nuclear radiation environment to levels of 1 x 1016 neutrons/cm2 (E > 0.1 Mev) and were found to exhibit acceptable performance. Various diode characteristics were obtained under radiation to correlate behavior with amplifier designs. Diode test results are presented for irradiations at three different reactor facilities."
"A servo amplifier was designed to meet the nuclear radiation environment expected in the nuclear ramjet missile. An extensive search of radiation effects data was made to Judiciously select radiation resistant components and materials. The resulting design used RCA nuvistor tubes for voltage amplification, and power amplification was achieved with G. E. ceramic tubes. The amplifier was instrumented to evaluate individual stage performance. Irradiation testing was conducted over a 130 hour period and the unit was subjected to an integrated fast neutron flux of 2.0 × 1017 neutrons/cm2 (E>0.3 Mev) and an associated gamma dose of 2.5 × 1011 ergs/gm-(C). The servo amplifier operated throughout the test with negligible changes in amplifier characteristics."
"Three ceramic tube 60-megacycle i-f amplifiers and one X-band mixer-preamplifier assembly were operated in the vicinity of a 3 megawatt nuclear reactor for a total of 300 megawatt hours, and their characteristics were monitored to determine the effects of nuclear radiation. There wrere essentially no changes in the characteristics of the i-f amplifiers throughout the test with a total integrated neutron flux of 2.8 × 1016 neutrons/ cm2 (Energy greater than 0.3 Mev) and a gamma dose of 3 × 1010 ergs/gm(C). The mixer-preamplifier operated with no noticeable changes to a total integrated neutron flux of 4 × 1015 neutrons/cm2 (Energy greater than 0.3 Mev) and gamma dose of 5.5 × 109 ergs/gm(C). Various degrees of degradation in crystal performance, gain, and noise characteristics were experienced throughout the remainder of the test."
"Excess conductivities induced by steady-state sources of gamma rays and by pulsed sources of neutrons and gamma rays in polyethylene, polystyrene, polypropylene, Nylon, polyisobutylene (impregnated paper), mylar, Teflon, diallylphthalate, H-film, cellulose acetate, reconstituded mica, tantalum oxide, and an epoxy formulation have been measured. The measurements were made at steady-state gamma-ray dose rates within the interval from 1.0 × 10-3 rads(H2O)/sec to 1.0 × 104 rads(H2O)/sec, and at combined pulsedneutron and gamma-ray dose rates less than 2.0 × 108 rads(H2O)/sec. All measurements were made at controlled temperatures between 25°C and 71°C. With steady-state gamma-ray irradiation, an excess conductivity is induced which has distinct features in three time intervals denoted as A, B, and C. In interval A, induced conductivity (σ - σo) is responding to a step increase in gamma-ray dose rate. The conductivity response is exponential (σ - σo) = A(1 - e-t/τo), with the time constant (τo) decreasing with increased gamma-ray dose rare (γ). The change in time constant as a function of gamma-ray dose rate at a fixed temperature is approximated by τo = koγ-μ where ko and δ are empirical constants. In interval B the induced conductivity has arrived at an equilibrium value whose magnitude as a function of gamma-ray dose rate at a fixed temperature is characterized to a good approximation by (σ - σo) = Aγγδ, where Aγ and δ are empirical constants. In interval C the conductivity is recovering upon removal of the sample from the radiation environment."
"Thyratrons may be fired by intense pulses of nuclear radiation. The results of early experiments to characterize this phenomenon are reexamined in the light of the recent experimental results. Evidence is presented that the tube is fired by gas ionization rather than a radiation induced grid voltage transient. Plate voltage is observed to be an important determinant of the firing criteria. A significant time delay also exists between the radiation stimulus and the firing of the tube. General guidelines are presented for designing circuits which are more resistant to the effects of pulse radiation."
"A charge-control equivalent circuit is developed in detail which can be used with a computer to predict the time-dependent response of any transistor to a pulse of ionizing radiation. Operation of the equivalent circuit during saturation is also provided. Measurement procedures are described for each of the necessary parameters in the circuit and comparison with experimental flash X-ray data is presented. Use of this transistor representation is demonstrated for predicting the response of a complete transistorized amplifier circuit."
"A method for determining the degree of vulnerability of a general digital switching circuit to intense bursts of radiation is presented. Emphasis is placed upon the ability of the circuit to maintain a desired state, rather than on the switching process itself. The advantages and disadvantages of added compensation are discussed. Application is made of the preceding theory to contemporary circuits, and reproductions of actual test results are presented to support this theory. The final section is a discussion of some additional considerations that are introduced when radiation bursts of short duration are concerned."
"Two digital computer circuit analysis programs which predict circuit response in a pulsed nuclear radiation environment are presented. One program requires that linear direct current equations be written manually and then programmed for computer solution. The other program generates the equations from topological circuit information and then solves the equations during the radiation burst automatically. Predictions generated by the automated program on four different circuits are verified experimentally."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"This paper presents the theory of operation and an evaluation of performance of a delay-lock tracking system for binary signals. The delay-lock discriminator is a nonlinear feedback system which employs a form of cross correlation in the feedback loop and continuously estimates the relative delay between a reference signal and a delayed version of that signal which is perturbed with additive noise. Binary maximal-length, shift-register sequences are used as the signal because they can easily be regenerated with any desired delay and they possess desirable autocorrelation functions. Problems of target search and acquisition are studied. The system performance in the presence of additive Gaussian noise is discussed. Computations are made of the effect of amplitude-limiting the received data on the system noise performance."
"The quasi-linearization procedure of Booton is applied to obtain an analytic approximation to phase-lock receiver threshold. Only the situation of an unmodulated sinusoid embedded in additive white Gaussian noise has been considered. The threshold signal-to-noise power ratio in the two-sided loop noise bandwidth of a phase-lock receiver of arbitrary transfer function was found to be 1.34 db. At threshold the rms loop error is 1.0 radian. The special situation of a high gain second-order receiver was also treated. In order to compare the analytical results with possible future measurements, the high S/N bandwidth was chosen as a reference point. Referred to this high S/N bandwidth, the threshold signal-to-noise power ratio of -0.2 db and a corresponding rms loop error of 1.16 radians were derived. The applicability of Booton's linearization procedure to nonlinear systems with statistical inputs has been experimentally verified in control system applications similar in nature to the phase-lock loop with excellent results. It is therefore anticipated that the application to phase-lock loop analysis should yield a mathematical model which describes the system more closely than strictly linear approximations."
"In a Pulse Frequency Modulation (PFM) telemetering system, there is a need for a subcarrier oscillator with these characteristics: 1) operating frequency a linear function of a dc input control voltage, 2) high input impedance, 3) square wave output with constant amplitude over the entire frequency range, and 4) frequency stability within one cycle during gated on-off operation. This paper describes a method for controlling the frequency of a square-loop magnetic core oscillator by means of a dc voltage to give a voltage-to-frequency converter with the above characteristics. Various design considerations are discussed; and a voltage controlled oscillator that operates from 15 to 5 kc as the input control voltage varies from 0 to +5 volts is used as the design example."
"In analog communication studies much attention has recently been given to the apparent advantages of FM transmission with receivers employing feedback frequency tracking. Although theoretical investigation has indicated some carrier power reduction can be obtained over standard FM, it has been difficult to estimate the operating capabilities of the system. In addition, little has been published concerning the best parameter values for the construction of a typical feedback receiver. This paper is devoted to a study of the feedback FM receiver which maximizes power savings over standard FM for a given desired output SNR. System parameters such as transmitter modulation index, loop gain IF bandwidth, and baseband filter bandwidth are specified corresponding to this optimum design. Particular attention is given to the output SNR in the range from 15 db to 50 db where most practical analog systems usually operate. The paper deals only with the feedback loop containing two stages of filtering; design procedure is also given when added constraints are imposed in terms of loop transient response. The possibility of using phase-lock loops as the discriminator within the FM feedback loop is also investigated. Some experimental results are quoted which tend to verify the design techniques."
"An equation is developed for the distortion of multi-tone FM signals caused by transmission through a network with nonlinear phase characteristics. A simplified form involving only one term is also given and the conditions of its applicability are discussed. The power spectrum of the distortion is derived for the case where the simpler form is valid. Thus, the distortion-to-signal ratio in any frequency band may be obtained. Applications are presented where the results are used to determine equipment linearity specifications and to determine the distortion which results from propagation through the ionosphere."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Missfle range instrumentation radars are capable of transmitting pulse code groups in which some of the pulses in each group can be used to convey information from the ground to a space vehicle containing a suitable beacon receiver and decoder. Thus, a one-way communication system is provided with only a small increase in ground and vehicle equipment over that required for the tracking function. Since the system is one way, communication reliability becomes of paramount importance. This paper presents a method of computing bit error rates, word error rates, and frame error rates as a function of the SNR at the beacon receiver. The SNR vs range can then be computed by standard methods to obtain the ground-to-vehicle ranges over which reliable communications can be conducted."
"By inserting encoded data from several sources into a Boolean function at the transmitter, and using correlation techniques at the receiver, it is shown that a very efficient telemetry or multiple-address system can be devised. The optimum logic is derived and proper channel codes are indicated."
"An investigation was made of the cooling of power transistors in a space environment, where the only available mode of heat transfer is that of conduction to a heat sink and radiation from the heat sink to space. An attempt was made to minimize the thermal resistance between transistor case and heat sink, allowing the transistor to dissipate as much power as possible while maintaining its temperature within the maximum tolerable level to prevent thermal runaway. Further, it was necessary to electrically insulate the transistor from the heat sink. The use of beryllium oxide washers provided electrical insulation, while adding very little to the thermal resistance between case and sink, the BeO being a good heat conductor. However, the problem of contact thermal resistance at each interface arose, especially in vacuum this contact resistance providing practically al the thermal resistance between case and sink. The effect on the contact resistance of surface pressure, insertion of foils, and soldering was examined. It was concluded that, for most efficient heat sinking, indium foil should be inserted at each interface, the indium foil having the effect of reducing the contact resistance in vacuum by a factor of 8."
"The need for automatically combining fragmentary telemetry tape records into one complete over-all composite record is discussed. The over-all organization of a tape-editing system is broken down into its two main functions: 1) synchronizing the tape transports, 2) measuring the excellence of the tape signals and then carrying out the diversity combination of these signals to form a new edited record. The problems associated with each function are discussed, and conclusions are reached regarding the final form of a tape editor. Finally, a practical tape editor system illustrating these conclusions is described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"A high-performance data transmission system, incorporating an efficient discrete signal set and optimum detection techniques, has been developed. Envelope-orthogonal signals in the transmitter and matched filters in the receiver are employed; the system has been given the name Orthomatch. As instrumented now, the system requires 1.6 db more power than calculated for information recovery, and requires effectively 1 db additional power for synchronization. On a calculated basis, Orthomatch at 16 levels requires 5.6 db less power than orthogonal incoherent PCM and 1.9 db less power than biphase PCM. Calculated and measured comparison of Orthomatch and a typical PAM-FM system shows an 11.5 db power advantage for Orthomatch."
"It is shown that where the output signal-to-noise ratio is required to be large, the oscillating limiter does not contribute any more signal-to-noise ratio enhancement than the limiter without feedback under the usual assumptions of Gaussian noise and a quasi-sinusoidal signal. However, it is possible that variation of the signal amplitude with frequency and/or nonlinear phase characteristic in the feedback loop of the oscillating limiter may result in an improvement in signal-to-noise ratio over that of a simple limiter."
"The determination of the aspect or orientation of spin stabilized satellites is vital for the correct interpretation of scientific measurements made on these spacecraft. Aspect information is collected optically from the sun, moon and earth. Little channel capacity is generally available for telemetry of this information. Therefore, completely digital low power aspect sensing and on-board information processing systems have been built and flown on various satellites. Some interesting results of aspect measurements on Explorer XII showed an unexpected increase in spin rate due to solar pressure, and on Explorer XIV an erratic precession history."
"Efficient operation of a tracking system requires that certain acquisition aids be available to each station prior to vehicle approach. One method of deriving such aids is based on extrapolation of vehicle position from a set of orbital parameters. Since in general, extrapolation errors tend to increase with time, orbital parameters must be updated periodically to provide for automatic acquisition. A statistical analysis is presented for assessing extrapolation errors in vehicle position. Starting with a set of orbital elements and a prescribed distribution of errors in the latter, an upper bound is obtained for a statistical parameter associated with the magnitude of the vehicle position error vector. This upper bound is time-dependent and is applied to estimate the related errors in acquisition aids. Thus, all estimates depend upon the time lapse which has expired since the orbital parameters were updated. The method of analysis is general and may be applied to a wide class of tracking systems. An example is included to indicate the magnitude of errors for a particular hypothetical vehicle."
"Increasing interest in coherent PM and FM communication systems using phase-locked demodulators has promoted the development of practical coherent diversity combining systems. Phase-locked loops can convert each received signal of a diversity system to an essentially constant frequency and phase for coherent combination prior to demodulation. When the individual signals are fading with some amount of independence, the properly combined signal has less severe amplitude fluctuations than either signal alone and a diversity improvement results. While practical systems of this type have proved very effective, they have a disadvantage in that each of the phase-locked loops are controlled by the individually fading signals. This paper describes a multiple-input servosystem in which a primary phase-locked loop is controlled by the combined signal while auxiliary loops within the primary loop assure phase coherence. In this way, the full diversity improvement is realized in both locking and in demodulation and the probability of losing lock is correspondingly decreased. The probability of a single-input phase-locked loop losing lock is established and then extended to the case of a slowly fading signal with Rayleigh envelope characteristics. The statistics of two such signals optimally combined are used to arrive at a comparative estimate of the improvement possible. A practical diversity-locked combiner is analyzed and design criteria are established."
"In the interest of more efficient operation, a system is proposed which combines the functions of command, synchronization, range, and range rate on the two-way radio link. Extreme reliability of information transfer is achieved by employing \"comma-free\" words which have been coded for error detection. Consideration is given to an assumed elemental error probability, corresponding to a conservative signal level Pe = 10-4. The mean time between error for this case is 108 years. The coding is such that synchronization obtains the same high degree of reliability as the information. In addition to the advantages of essentially \"error-free\" communication, the system offers relative ease of implementation common to the class of cyclic codes."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The essential signal-to-noise characteristics of an FM system are studied theoretically, assuming that the transmitted wave is frequency-modulated by a discontinuous signal, which is made by sampling from the original information signal at every sampling point equally spaced by a Nyquist interval and by boxcarring the sampled value over the following interval. Studies are made with a simple model of an FM demodulator of a new type, which may be called the band-dividing FM demodulator. As a result of these studies a limit to the degree of improvement in the threshold of an FM system is obtained. The result obtained here again suggests that it is possible to improve the threshold of the system beyond that of a so-called conventional FM demodulator. It is also shown that the value of the intrinsic signal-to-noise ratio (the ratio of the incoming signal power to the incoming noise power in the baseband bandwidth) at the threshold is not constant but increases with the value of the modulation index. Brief discussions on the threshold effects in the so-called phase-lock and frequency-lock FM demodulators are also given."
"The development of a digital filter using sampled data theory techniques and having a desired frequency response characteristic is described. Specifically, design of a digital notch filter is accomplished through formulation of a regression equation for application to sampled input and output values from the filter. After first expressing the desired transfer function in the continous domain, the equation is developed using sampled data theory relationships. Although the techniques are applied to a specific type of filter, they are general in nature. The problem considered involves attenuation of a particular frequency and those in its immediate vicinity while leaving other even slightly distant frequencies relatively unattenuated. An additional requirement calls for tracking and attenuating an input whose frequency is time-variable. In particular, a linearly (with respect to time) variable frequency is considered and discussed. Testing and evaluation were performed through simulation on a general purpose digital computer. Results obtaied are described."
"Evaluation of the performance of error-correcting codes has, in the past, been severely hampered by the lack of functional relationships between the uncoded and coded binit error rates. In this paper, such relationships yielding the exact decoder output error rates are developed for Hamming SED codes of lengths n = 2m - 1, m = 1, 2, 3,···, and for Hamming SEC/DED codes of length n = 2m, m = 1, 2, 3,···. In addition, for the DED codes, a similar family of formulas are derived for the probability that a received information binit is contained in a word containing an error pattern that can be detected but not corrected. A criterion of merit for the coded versus uncoded systems is postulated. A similar criterion is developed based upon word error rates. It is demonstrated that the latter results, in general, in highly erroneous conclusions regarding the comparative worth of coded systems. Graphs are presented illustrating the numerical results based on these formulas for codes ranging in length from 7/8 binits up to and including 511/512 binits, for uncoded channel error rates of 0.5 to 10-10. Similar graphs of code merit, based upon modulation systems for which detection is a linear operation (PSK-MF, for example), are constructed. From these, ranges of channel (uncoded) error probability over which particular code lengths result in the best performance that can be obtained from that type of code are extracted and tabulated."
"For various practical reasons, a highly desirable attribute of a realization procedure for the ambiguity function would be control over the envelope of the complex signal modulation. A design procedure is derived which has this property and begins with a specification of the range and Doppler cross sections of the ambiguity function. The essential problem is to find the phase modulation of the signal when the envelopes of the signal and its spectrum are specified; a solution is given for the large time-bandwidth product case. An application to the problem of avoiding range ambiguities is discussed."
"The probability of error is derived for a PCM-FM system that uses a discriminator as a detector. It is shown that discriminator performance is approximately 1 db poorer than optimum detection of a PCM-FM signal. The results compare favorably with experimental measurments conducted elsewhere."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1963."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This analysis is directed toward finding the rms position error of a Doppler navigation system when the input to the system is composed of random velocity errors. Statistical techniques of time-stationary random processes are used to represent the input velocity. Results show that system errors expressed as a per cent of distance traveled are shown to decrease with increasing distance traveled. There is a need for specifying the effective noise bandwidth of a system when determining system accuracy by means of random analysis. The smaller the effective noise bandwidth of the input velocity errors, the larger the rms position error."
"This paper develops the optimal method of levelling, gyro-drift correction and gyrocompassing a moving inertial platform when its velocity is not known precisely; this information need not be available throughout the operation. The accuracy of setting up the system depends on certain statistical parameters of the errors in velocity measurement and, between certain \"break\" times, on inverse powers of time. A \"semiclosed loop\" instrumentation of the method is put forward that corrects the platform tilt and the system velocity error as they are calculated."
"A simple method of obtaining range and velocity information has long been sought for numerous applications.1One such application concerns itself with detecting the presence of an obstacle in the path of a moving vehicle, the distance to it, and the rate of closure. Since the ranging capabilities of such a system must include an approach to zero distance and extend to several hundred feet, most conventional radar systems can be dismissed as impractically complex and/or requiring large radio frequency bandwidths. A new and simple radar is presented for ranging to a moving target at close distances. Intended for a range interval of from zero to five hundred feet, the practice of operation may be extended to several times that distance; or, on the other hand, very close ranges (on the order of inches) may be measured. An important feature is this system's ability to distinguish a single moving target among a multitude of stationary ones and to correctly indicate the direction of motion-approaching or receding. The target's speed may be determined directly from its Doppler frequency. Extremely simple RF \"front-end\" and detector circuits, and unusually narrow bandwidths utilized by the solid state receiver, are salient features of a portable system which has been built to operate from an automobile battery."
"Missile-guidance errors caused by antenna and electronic faults are discussed. After describing a typical closed-loop angular sensing system using a gyrostabilized microwave antenna, the peculiarities of a crossed-dipole feed are listed. With imperfect electronic processing in the closed loop, the feed aberrations generate false steering signals. Two kinds of antenna squint are then dealt with, one sensitive to polarization and one not sensitive. A general definition of squint is given, and numerical examples of resulting errors are presented."
"A DME concept is described based on the measurement of conditions associated with the standing waves permitted by an instantaneous range. It is shown that for a given power the instrument will operate at greater ranges with higher space resolution than is possible by direct transit time measurements. The role of oscillator stability in limiting the range of interferometers is investigated, and it is concluded that a standing wave DME can tolerate an oscillator instability bandwidth as great as c/2R."
"A simple \"minimum-fuel,\" digital attitude control system requiring no rate gyros is described; the system is applicable to practically any type of orbiting space vehicle. An inertial guidance computer furnishes a quantized attitude angle to the control system. With this attitude information and a measure of time, the control computer accurately computes the vehicle's average rate. A novel switching zone arrangement in the phase plane results in decisions controlling on-off reaction jets that adjust the vehicle's attitude. Jet selection and duration of the jets' operation are determined as a function of the vehicle's angular position and average rate in relation to the switching zones in the phase plane. The system operates so that computed rates are very accurate when accurate rates are required and less accurate when accuracy is not important. The end result is a system that converges to a low-rate limit cycle while consuming near-minimum fuel. The parameters controlling the switching logic are prestored memory constants which are electronically loadable and changeable. This flexibility makes the system compatible with a wide variety of payloads and missions."
"A Doppler navigation radar is described which can reduce sea-bias errors to a negligible degree. The technique also reduces all other errors which result from asymmetrical distortion of the echo spectrum. Spectrum distortion is caused by modulation effects (altitude holes), by angle-sensitive reflectivity of certain types of terrain, and by asymmetric receiver responses. Error reduction is achieved by the use of monopulse-type antenna patterns, which are directed toward the earth fore and aft of the aircraft velocity vector. The Doppler frequencies corresponding to the null planes of the split beams are tracked. Because the positions of the null planes relative to the aircraft velocity vector are dependent only upon the antenna configuration, and not upon outside factors beyond the control of the radar designer, the system is practically insensitive to the class of errors listed above. A particular system configuration illustrating the null-tracking principle is described. Initial acquisition of the ground track is made by a conventional lobe-tracking system. Rapid switchover between null tracking and conventional tracking is provided in order to permit picking the best mode for the particular conditions encountered. The added complexity required by the null-tracking feature depends somewhat upon the antenna design, but does not appear prohibitive for either lens antennas or planar arrays."
"Radio interferometers have been used for highaccuracy, high-precision source location of radio stars and radio satellites. These systems are generally optimized for a fixed frequency and have efficient means for resolving any and all ambiguities which are inherent in the particular interferometer system. Application of the radio-interferometer principle to wide-band, high-frequency radio direction finding practice by its very nature poses a severe problem of ambiguity resolution, i.e., unique determination of the bearing and elevation angles of arrival of an incident ray having any frequency within the band. A wide-band, high-frequency radio direction finder incorporating sum-and-difference interferometer techniques is described. A salient and novel feature is an analog computer-type calibrator which permits unique determination of the bearing and elevation angles of arrival from data supplied by three two-element interferometers and a central crossed Adcock array. A theoretical analysis is given along with supporting experimental data."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Noncoherent Doppler permits determination of the ground course as the azimuth of a null in the clutter Doppler returns and, therefore, can be a frequency insensitive adjunct to a pilotage search radar, especially where weight and/or power is at a premium. This stands in contrast to the customary coherent Doppler navigators which relate the frequency changes upon reflection, fore and aft, to the drift angle. An X-band self-coherent Doppler implementation developed that 88 per cent of the drift-angle measurement was within ± 1° of a concurrent optical measurement."
"This paper is a tutorial development of both new and old results of theoretical and experimental techniques which are applicable to map-matching, the recognition of previously observed results in experimental data. This development of a theory for treating 2-valued maps deals with the manipulation of maps with Boolean functions and the corresponding manipulation with optical equipment. The use of a modulo-2 operation defines the identity condition. Binary weighting functions produce conditional identity conditions and a relation between symmetrical and asymmetrical correlation of maps. Sampled maps introduce the concept of essentially identical maps so as to make possible the calculation of error probabilities from a sample population of essentially similar maps. The use of loss functions in accepting or rejecting the identity of two maps produces a decision-theoretic criteria for threshold detection. The threshold is a nontrivial threshold in the cases where system noise is present. The construction of composite maps is treated from the standpoint of minimum average discrepancy error. Numerical examples based on exponential bounds indicate the effectiveness of these techniques."
"A theoretical analysis of the comb-filter properties of synchronously commutated capacitors is presented. The introduction of extraneous frequencies due to the time variance of such a network is investigated. The effects of the number of commutator segments and the input and output time constants on the bandwidth and phase shift are considered. The use of this integrator circuit as a postdetection filter of a spinning-goniometer radio direction finder is discussed."
"Fourier analysis is used to show that the frequency spectrum of the output voltage of the linear detector of a spinning-goniometer direction-finding receiver varies as a function of time for a CW received signal. A filter for the second detector is considered having a bandwidth which varies with time in a similar way, thus effecting a \"match\" between the signal and the filter. A simple signal-to-noise ratio analysis shows that an improvement in signal-to-noise ratio is possible, compared to performance of a time-invariant system. The improvement is described by the equation I = 10 log10 T/T1, where T is the observation time and T1>/sub> is the basic period of the envelope of the input signal to the second detector produced by goniometer modulation."
"An analysis is given of the bearing error in a radio direction finder due to simultaneous reception of two signals, referred to as target and spurious signals. The carrier frequency of the spurious signal is assumed to be the image of the target-signal frequency around the local-oscillator frequency, so that both signals are passed by the IF amplifier of the direction-finder receiver. The analysis applies to any DF receiver having a carrier-suppressed double-sideband input, such as is obtained using a mechanical or electronic goniometer. The results can serve as a basis for specifying the image rejection requirements on the RF amplifier of the receiver. In particular, it is shown that in order to have less than one degree of error, the spurious signal must be attenuated to at least 35 db below the target signal amplitude at the RF output of the receiver."
"An experimental program has been conducted to collect information concerning the correlation bandwidth of the tropospheric scatter medium in the 5-Gc region. By transmitting bursts on five different frequencies, data were obtained on separations of 1.5, 3.0, 4.5, and 6.0 Mc for a 100-mile path. An IBM 7090 computer was programmed to calculate the cross-correlation coefficients between the pairs of frequencies. The experimental results are in agreement with theory, and indicate that frequencies as closely spaced as 1.5 Mc can have correlation coefficients of the order of 0.4."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper deals with astronomical and geophysical considerations applicable to optical measurements made with selfcontained equipment in a space vehicle in order to determine its position and/or velocity. Various measurements made from the earth, their temporal variations and their accuracy as applied to space navigation are discussed. Information regarding stellar positions, magnitudes, spectra and frequency distribution is presented. A discussion of planetary positional ephemerides, diameters, phase curves, albedos and spectral characteristics is given. The advantages of using asteroids vis-à-vis planets are discussed. There are several problems in observing terrestrial occultations of stars from a satellite due to the presence of the earth's atmosphere. Pertinent atmospheric characteristics, such as cloudiness, absorption, scattering and emission of radiation are discussed in the above context."
"This paper deals with star tracking and scanning systems whose ultimate application is the navigation and control of aerospace vehicles. The subject generally has received very sparse treatment in the open literature. It will be the purpose of this paper to discuss some of the critical considerations related to the optimum design and performance of star trackers and scanners. It discusses the basic system and its functional elements, the input data, its character and limitations, the optical system, its characteristics and performance, the photomultiplier and vidicon as promising radiation detectors, the decision problem and its probabilistic nature, and the optimization of system performance through the manipulation of major design parameters."
"A signal processing analysis of star trackers for navigation and guidance was conducted as a part of the Star Tracker Aerospace Reference Study. The signal processing analysis is based on the similarity between communication system theory and the several types of star trackers. The navigation system and star tracker parameters are the trade-off items that permit operation within the bounds set by the star field and transmission path. A tracker parameter analysis is an aid in formulating criteria for selecting a tracker and judging performance. This paper is primarily concerned with the internal parameters of star tracker design; specifically, what methods are available to the designer to meet navigation, guidance, and star ephemeris requirements. Equations describing the modulation process are developed and compared to communication practices. To aid in the comparison of the various types of trackers, a representative set of parameters has been developed. The comparison is done on a graphical basis where the primary trade-offs are effective optical area, information bandwidth and angular accuracy. The expected range of background radiance, star distribution and effective irradiance are described in summary form. Sources of additional information are listed in a bibliography."
"Celestial tracking systems employed in the navigation of military vehicles in the atmosphere of the earth have the capability of tracking a large number of stars in the daytime. In daytime tracking, the quantum efficiency of the detector, as well as additional sensitivity gain through electronic charge storage, is of primary importance. Theoretical formulas for the signal-to-noise ratios of four detectors are presented: the photoelectric photomultiplier, image dissector, vidicon and the image orthicon. The photomultiplier and image dissector require the use of very slow scanning velocities, narrow detection bandwidths, and the resultant time required for star acquisition is in the order of minutes. The image orthicon, due to target saturation, is restricted to the observation of only bright stars. The vidicon, with sensitivity gain through electronic charge storage, is used with rapid scanning velocities, and star acquisition is accomplished in less than one second of time. In interplanetary or nighttime navigation, with a low level of background radiation, the salient detector characteristics are sensitivity, gain through either storage or photomultiplication, and dark current. The image dissector rates first among the detectors considered, followed by the photomultiplier, image orthicon and the vidicon. Field test data are presented in this work in substantiation of the analysis of the several detector types."
"The systems engineer, in formulating and analyzing star tracking systems, is often confronted with conversion of lengthy coordinate transformation matrices into meaningful physical data. The matrices associated with vector analysis and the equations of spherical trigonometry used in celestial and space applications often defy orderly and concise interpretation. One becomes lost in a maze of sines, cosines, and error vectors. The topological method of performing orthogonal coordinate transformations graphically illustrates the conversions and projections being attempted and serves as a map to orient our thinking. This paper discusses coordinate transformation of star tracking systems in terms of the topological and signal flow chart. The topological or signal flow diagram is briefly explained before being applied to typical star tracking problems. Star identification in space and terrestial navigation were chosen as representative problems to illustrate the usefulness of the topological analysis approach."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of recognizing stars by means of their optical radiation characteristics, for use in the guidance and navigation of aerospace vehicles. We conclude that there are three easily measurable independent parameters in the radiation from individual stars which permit unique recognition of the brightest stars above the earth's atmosphere. Accurate spectral data obtained from observations using three wide-bandwidth optical filters are given for the 71 brightest stars. The spectral parameters of a bright star will be compared to previous observations to identify the unknown star. However, as a result of measurement inaccuracies the star may be incorrectly classified. Thus, the average probability of misidentifying any of the brightest stars is calculated as a function of various measurement errors, assuming an \"optimum\" recognition procedure."
"This paper describes a navigational system which accurately determines aircraft true heading and an altitude intercept from which position is determined. This is accomplished by automatically and continuously tracking the light from a celestial body with a stabilized telescope utilizing a photomultiplier tube as the sensor. The line-of-sight to the body is accurately measured with respect to the local vertical and used to correct computed pointing commands. The computed information is determined from aircraft position, celestial data, and time."
"Basic inertial navigation systems used in cruise applications will, in general, experience position errors that continue to increase with time. A cruise vehicle is considered here to be one which may be expected to operate for periods of time between a few minutes to several months, and at velocities from near zero to Mach 3 near the surface of the earth. Various methods of augmenting the basic inertial system may be applied in order to alter the effect of the error sources by using information derived from external references. Among these are reference velocity, reference position and stellar information. These references may be used individually or in any combination. This paper will deal primarily with the concepts of utilizing stellar information in an inertial navigation system with some consideration given to the aspects of supplementing the stellar inertial system with reference velocity information. The effect of utilizing the stellar information is to eliminate the gyro drift as a major source of error in the system. In fact, the application of proportional plus integral control will maintain the gyro bias compensation in a \"tuned-up\" condition so that in the event the stellar control is lost due to cloud cover or malfunction, the effect of the gyro contribution to system error will be minimized."
"The earth's horizon provides an important and conspicuous basis for the development of self-contained systems for earth-satellite navigation. The present paper investigates horizonbased navigational systems in which the requirement for vehicular yaw stabilization is not imposed. This permits the development of a variety of navigational techniques which generally fall within one of the following divisions: star matching, stellar almucantar transits, limb occultations, surface almucantar transits and map matching. By measuring time directly the raw data is immediately available for digital processing. Error contributing factors such as the aspherical shape of the earth and the seasonal and latitudinal variation of the atmospheric density profile can be largely eliminated by introducing suitable corrections. Furthermore, heavy reliance can be placed on the digital computer for star identification and for the introduction of these various correction terms. As a result, these techniques have the virtue of requiring only the simplest of navigational equipment. They yield earth-satellite position fixes with potential accuracies in the range from 1 to 10 miles."
"This paper details a study of optical techniques for tracking the partially illuminated moon and describes a feasibility-type breadboard constructed to track automatically by means of a multiplier phototube, a scanning unit and a digital computer."
"Pattern recognition and the determination of relative attitude are capabilities of an electro-optical map matching device that utilizes two-dimensional correlation data processing techniques. This device is the basic element of a Universal Space Tracker that provides pitch, yaw and roll data with respect to the recognized field (either planetary surface, star field, or planetary rim) for space vehicle guidance applications. The correlation detector and data quantizer is a digital image camera of special design. A feasibility evaluation model of the map matcher has successfully correlated the constellation Gemini under a Maryland atmosphere. The implementation of optical correlation makes possible a universal tracking system with excellent performance characteristics. An advanced version of the tracker is expected to have a 20-arcsecond accuracy, a 5-degree instantaneous acquisition cone, a 20-degree field of view, a weight of 5 pounds, a ¼-cubic foot volume and a power consumption of 3 watts."
"If a practical system is to be realized within the predictable future, the design of instrumentation for space navigation is contingent upon the meaningful definition of the mission, proper choice of navigation or guidance concept, optimum integration of the human operator and independence from technological breakthroughs. The mission must be considered and categorized in terms of the characteristics of the observables rather than by any other method of classification. The mission also dictates the choice between implicit or explicit navigation concepts. The capabilities and limitations of the astronaut must be considered in the design of all equipment requiring viewing and manual manipulation, especially for computing purposes. The resulting equipment configuration may be considered in terms of the \"spectrum of navigation instrumentation\", ranging from completely manual to fully automatic operation. Such a design philosophy leads to a maximum probability of mission success despite partial equipment malfunctions. This paper is based in part upon the unclassified aspects of a study on space position fixing under sponsorship of the Air Force Aeronautical Systems Division and in part upon other space navigation programs at the Kollsman Instrument Corporation. The material presented here serves as an introduction to the general topic of instrumentation for space navigation and does not include the detailed exploration of any facet thereof."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An electromechanical scanning antenna technique is proposed to provide improved TACAN ground-beacon performance over the full 960-to 1215-Mc band.A radially symmetric, shaped-beam reflector is illuminated by an off-set, radial-pillbox horn. The horn is driven by a radial transmission line which contains a central radiator. Parasitic elements are arranged in dielectric rings positioned concentrically with the central radiator. The rings are rotated uniformly about the center line to generate an amplitude-modulated, omnidirectional azimuth pattern. The complex response of the elements controls the percentage modulation, while the geometry of the reflector and its feed independently control the shape of the elevation pattern. The antenna generates uniform azimuth modulation over the elevation angles of interest."
"A simple analog computer, which solves the oblique and the right spherical triangle equation, is described based on the law of cosines. With three parameters of the oblique triangle as inputs, the fourth is computed with an accuracy better than ± 10 minutes of arc for most of the practical problems. The computer can be used to solve navigational problems such as the hour angle, course angle and great circle distance. Solutions for the right spherical triangle are obtained when one parameter is set to 90°."
"The Mosaic Radar System combines the coverage from multiple unsynchronized surveillance radars, each covering adjacent geographical areas. Some new techniques are presented and their application to the design of a complete Air Traffic Control system. One of the important features of the system is the positive radar hand-off capability-the means by which transfer of control is effected between controllers responsible for aircraft in adjoining sectors."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Beginning in the late 1960's Voyager spacecraft will be launched to Venus and Mars. These spacecraft may contain both orbiting and landing modules. One of the first questions which arises in such a system is whether to transmit the data originating in the lander directly back to earth or to relay through the orbiter. This paper discusses the theoretical, operational and environmental aspects of the problem and concludes that a relay link is definitely required for Venus and would be advantageous for Mars. A 100-mc carrier frequency for the relay link is recommended, and the results of comparisons of promising modulation and multiplexing techniques are presented."
"This paper describes the work done in designing and breadboarding a solar flare alarm system employing video digital techniques. The conceptual design of the system is presented, and experimental apparatus, solar and flare simulation equipment, and procedures employed in obtaining performance data are described. Experimental measurements and results are included. In general, it was found that the system is capable of detecting simulated flares whose contrast exceeds that of the immediate solar background by a factor of 1.5 to 2.0. Positional linearity in determining the precise location of the flare on the solar disc is within ± 2.5%. Spurious signal generation in the system due to vidicon amplifier noise and noise in the counter circuitry was found to be less of a problem than had been anticipated."
"The UK-2/S-52 Satellite is one of NASA's International Satellites and carries Experiments built by the British. The satellite is under Management and technical supervision of Goddard Space Flight Center. The Consideration and analysis of environmental and operational requirements, as well as the requirements imposed by the satellite configuration, influenced the UK-2/S-52 power source system design, the detail specifications for the batteries and solar paddles, and the testing of these and associated sub-assemblies. For example, early appreciation for the influence of temperature extremes, as well as of the effects of the load on the external characteristics of the unregulated bus resulted in the faithful simulation of operational influences at the electrical functional testing level and individual unit qualification testing level of components supplying or using the unregulated bus. In discussing some of these considerations, this paper describes the UK-2/S-52 power supply from a functional standpoint and includes a discussion of the load analysis results and some of the performance characteristics of the solar paddles, the main batteries, and the power source control and protective circuits. Also discussed are significant routines of the test procedures for paddles and batteries as well as some of the test results."
"This paper discusses the design of radar for use in the terminal control of manned and umanned space vehicles of the maneuverable type. In order to present the requirements and specifications of the required radar, the type of missions that will use terminal control are discussed. Also terminal control equipment suchl as analogue computers and displays are mentioned in preserting these specifications. The main body of the paper deals with specific areas of radar development resulting from recent work in developing a terminal control system for the umanned X-20 vehicle. The technical areas discussed are reliability of self-acquisition, pulse code modulated (PCM) data transmission, semidigital ranging, and the accuracy of computed velocity, altitude and positional data."
"The S-52 (See Figure 1) is being built under the cooperative international program being conducted by the United States and the United Kingdom. In the U.K., University and Government, Laboratories designed and constructed the instrumentation for the S-52 experiments under the scientific direction of the British National Committee for Space Research. The Goddard Space Flight Center, for NASA, has overall U.S. responsibility for the program including the design, development, construction, and testing of the spacecraft as well as launching, tracking, and data acquisition phases. GSFC has contracted to Westinghouse the building of the spacecraft structure, the design and manufacture of certain satellite subsystems, the integration of all subsystems into an operating satellite, and assistance in environmental proof testing of completed satellites. The NASA Langley Research Center is responsible for the launch vehicle system. The launching will take place at Wallops Island, Va. during 1963 utilizing a Scout Vehicle. The satellite will be laumched into an orbit with an apogee of approximately 810 n.m., a perigee of approximately 150 n.m. and with an inclination of 51°."
"The results of environmental tests designed to determine the relative susceptibility of monolithic silicon and thin fillm integrated circuits and devices to the transient nuclear radiation environment associated with a nuclear explosion are discussed. These results strorngly indicate that hybrid thin film circuits employing high frequency transistors should be used in systems now being designed which require microelectronic circuitry to operate in a transient radiation environment. Tests conducted on experimental devices indicate that the insulated- gate thin-film field effect transistor is less affected by transient nuclear radiation than any other active microelectronic device presently available. When the insulated gate field effect device becomes commercially available, it should provide complete thin film integrated circuits which are highly resistant to transient nuclear radiation."
"This paper gives examples of specific test techniques which have been used in performing transient radiation effects test measurements. The techniques were developed primarily for use with electron linear accelerators but can be applied directly in flash X-ray and pulsed reactor test programs as well."
"The various radiation sources (solar flares and natural and artificial Van Allen Belts) to be encountered on the Apollo Mission have been compared with regard to effect on electronic components. It is found that a large Class 3+ flare constitutes the most serious hazard. We have assumed that such a flare will occur and have calculated the degradation in performance of electronic components caused thereby. Resistors and capacitors are unaffected but transistors are seriously affected. Example: unshielded 50 mc Si and 10 mc Ge transistors will experience gain reduction to 70% of initial; transistors of lower cutoff frequency will experience a proportionately greater reduction. A one gm/cm2 Al shield reduces the damage by a factor of 4 in Si and 5 in Ge transistors."
"Factors controlling the evaluation of radiation vulnerability of transistors, diodes, and solar cells are reviewed. Typical results from computer analysis of transistor current gain degradation are presented, emphasizing dependence of degradation on dc operating point. Particle equivalence for permanent radiation damage in semiconductor devices is summarized. Extention of operational lifetime of space system electronics is also discussed."
"The nuclear radiation resistant control moment gyroscope is a sensing and control device intended for service in space vehicles with nuclear radiation environment. Its main function is to control the altitude and stability of a spacecraft in orbit. The nuclear radiation resistance is achieved through the highly selective use of radiation resistant materials in the design. One such gyro has been ground tested in a nuclear radiation environment."
"For attitude control of certain classes of spacecraft, digital techniques appear to offer distinct advantages over analog systems. A program was conducted to evaluate experimentally a stabilization and control system in which digital methods are used for measurement, signal processing, and torque control. The logic design of the control system is discussed in detail, and the hardware used for implementing the design is described. Preliminary experimental results are presented which confirm predicted control accuracy advantages."
"High pointing accuracy requirements are imposed on the control system of the OAO. One tenth arcsec angular accuracy can be achieved in orbiting spacecraft using star references, long focal length optical systems, and relatively small torquing devices. Noise problems are introduced when a single error sensor is required to track stars with greatly different magnitudes. As star magnitude decreases, the compensating increase in the gain by the automatic gain control decreases the signal-to-noise ratio and degrades the pointing accuracy. A linear range of at least one arcmin will eliminate or reduce many restrictions on initial acquisition of a particular star. These restrictions are introduced by high initial satellite rates and/or unbalanced inertial wheel torques. Relatively small voltage rates out of the sensor may be detected by a suitably designed nonlinear lead circuit with low frequency corners."
"The scientific objectives of solar research require ever increasing accuracy requirements for orbiting observatories. To speak of \"seconds of arc\" is now quite common among engineers designing control systems for scientific spacecraft. One such spacecraft is the Advanced Orbiting Solar Observatory (AOSO). The attitude control subsystem for the AOSO must meet a number of stringent performance requirements. For instance, it must have a pointing accuracy of +/- five seconds of arc to observe the smallest sun spots, and it must also have the capability of raster scanning to map phenomena emanating from the sun's surface. The AOSO control subsystem needs to be considerably more accurate than the over-all observatory requirements, because of possible misalignment of experiments. The key component affecting its accuracy is the fine sun sensor. A number of concepts using a mosaic of detectors were investigated and rejected because of high power requirements and developmental problems. It became apparent that there would be moving parts in the AOSO fine sun sensor. Several workable designs, meeting most of the control subsystem requirements, came to the surface. The sensor that will be used for AOSO was conceived by the combined efforts of Minneapolis-Honeywell and Republic Aviation Corporation."
"The analysis and design of a fine sun tracker for the Advanced Orbiting Solar Observatory are discussed. The tracker provides accurate pointing information in pitch and yaw, permitting precise static and dynamic orientation of the observatory with respect to the sun's apparent disc, in accordance with ground commands. The tracker uses a servo driven optical slab in each axis to offset the optical null by the required amount. The error signal thus developed in a pair of matched silicon photo-voltaic cells is fed to the observatory control system, to produce the desired orientation in that axis. The essential features of the tracker design are incorporated in a breadboard model. The performance of this model verifies the inherent capability of the design to achieve a 2 are-second r.m.s. pointing accuracy."
"The equation of rotation of the spacecraft about a set of control axes are developed to reveal the required functions of a momentum exchange control system when subjected to external disturbances. A linear control system is designed and the three-axis characteristic equation is developed. This ninth order equation has coefficients which vary with the particular attitude references in use, and with the particular desired attitude. The number of and location of the references are variables. Reference information and commanded attitude data are lumped into two constants and lines of constant minimum system damping are plotted parametricly. Thus before slewing to a new attitude, the degree of damping or instability may be readily determined."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"To complete the terminal phase of a space rendezvous mission, it is essential that accurate indications of target vehicle range and relative range rate be presented to the astronauts commanding the chaser vehicle. The indicator characteristics and the method of data presentation assume prime importance in compliance with the above. Therefore, a discussion is given of the logical development and function of the indicator. Having established the indicator format the discussion proceeds with a description of the mechanization of the range and range rate circuitry incorporated in the GEMINI Rendezvous Radar. In this section, details are given which describe the methods by which data, extracted from the received signals, are processed in analog form suitable for application to the indicator."
"For the present decade it appears the most precise and accurate technique for attitude control of space vehicles consists of actuation with momentum devices. The majority of investigations using this form of attitude control generally assume a zero motor lag, linearized approximation of the equations of motion and control, elimination of the first order gyroscopic cross-coupling effects, and complete indiference to the second order gyroscopic cross-coupling effects. In some cases these assumptions are justified; in other cases they are not. This investigation is concerned with precise three-axis attitude control of an orbital space vehicle. The equations of motion are general and designed to encompass many of the parameters that will influence an orbital space flight and will not be constrained by specific vehicle geometry, construction, orientation or trajectory. The primary source of actuation is a set of three orthogonal reaction wheels which provide control torques and integrate the disturbance torques along each axis. Because of the gyroscopic effects of the rotating masses an interdependency exists between the various axes. The extent of these effects are investigated. In addition to wheel control, the system features a reaction jet system for desaturation of the wheel momentum when any wheel has reached a prescribed maximum speed. Significant points investigated are: 1. The problem of reaction wheel motor damping and its effect on the system steady state and transient behavior 2. The effectiveness of first and second order decoupling in reducing gyroscopic coupling between axes 3."
"Discussed in this paper are the description, one possible mechanization and the advantages of impulse modulation as applied to control systems. Analog computer simulations of several applications, including an open loop missile TVC system, are presented to show the feasibility of impulse modulation."
"The efficient use of fuel and the rapid damping of disturbances are desirable in control systems. A system utilizing a derived control equation and modulation techniques is presented in Section I which meets these efficiency and damping requirements. Section II describes a second system in which displacement and rate-logic switching are separated to eliminate the hardware uncertainties that prove detrimental to switching line summing techniques."
"Attitude control systems for space vehicles using reaction jets for the generation of control moments become particularly simple and potentially reliable if the reaction jets are operated with constant thrust in an on-off fashion. This paper is concerned with the design of the switching logic of these so called \"bang-bang\" systems. Four different logic systems are compared by means of analysis as well as analogue computer tests. One of the systems investigated, called \"time switched integration\" has been developed by Lockheed and is shown to be advantageous in certain applications. The advantages include a remarkable insensitivity of the optimum time response behavior to slow variations of the level of system acceleration such as are produced e.g. by fuel consumption and/or staging. In this sense the time switched integration system in some mechanizations may be termed selfadaptive, but achieves this feature with very simple means."
"A completely solid state transmitter is described which has a peak output power of 30 watts at 234 MC. The primary function of this unit was for operation as a PPM transmitter. However, it can be easily adapted to PCM, PFM, or beacon use. The transmitter was designed to withstand severe environmental conditions encountered in high altitude sounding rockets and satellites."
"The major elements of the GLOTRAC Global Tracking Network are described and a brief discussion of their individual capabilities presented. The performance of ground stations assigned to Segment 1 at AMR is examined based on computer simulations and on an informal tracking test in connection with the MA-9 Mercury launch. Considerations involved in the growth of GLOTRAC to an integrated tracking, telecommunications, command and control system are discussed."
"The development of a frequency synthesizer which makes use of digital techniques. Description of basic concept which makes use of a counter controlled servo loop which supplies control signal to voltage controlled oscillator which in turn is periodically gated to the input of the counter. Frequency selection is made by proper preseting of the counter."
"The Goddard Range & Range Rate System was developed by Motorola for the Goddard Space Flight Center and utilizes proven techniques to produce highly accurate data for use in orbital computations. It is simple in concept, uncomplicated in operation, and features dependable performance. It should prove to be a highly useful member of our growing family of scientific aerospace systems."
"Raw data from the \"TELSTAR\" Communications Satellite is processed on a High-Speed Digital Computer to produce tables and plots for evaluating communication and tracking performance. Data from the satellite and the Andover Earth Station is recorded in digital form on 7-track magnetic tape at the Earth Station, compressed, sent to a data center via Bell System \"DATA-PHONE\" service, then reduced and analyzed on an IBM 1401 and 7090. Plots of various quantities are produced by a Stromberg-Carlson Microfilm Printer. Short output tables of communication and tracking parameters are produced for each pass. Data from a 1/2-hour satellite pass takes about 1/4 hour to be compressed, and about 3/4 hour to be transmitted via \"DATA-PHONE\" service. After a 1/4-hour edit on the 1401, approximately 20 seconds on the 7090 produces an analyzed output table containing one row for each minute of the pass."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A large number of parameters are measured and indicated on modern jet aircraft. These include temperatures, pressures, positions, speeds and levels. By recording these measurements and later analyzing them using data processing techniques the reliability of aircraft systems can be substantially increased. An \"On-Condition\" aircraft system maintenance concept appears feasible."
"The development of Loran C has generated the need for a low cost Loran C receiver for marine use, and the familiar Loran A is expected to remain operational for many years to come, continuing the need for these receivers. The similarities between Loran A and C are such that a receiver designed initially to accomodate both systems satisfactorially fulfills these needs."
"This paper describes the design of a 25 watt transmitter-receiver which tunes through the range from 116 to 150 megacycles without moving parts. The receiver section employs varicap tuning and the oscillator-amplifier transmitter section is tuned by means of current variable inductors. Transmitter output frequency is controlled by a unique circuit which phase locks it to a reference frequency generated in the receiver crystal bank. This design brings about a reduction in size, weight and power requirements and greatly simplifies the over-all circuitry of the unit."
"A new low altitude radar altimeter is being developed by Sperry Phoenix Company for use in all-weather landing of aircraft. Known as the SPA-10 landing altimeter, it is unique among low altitude altimeters. It uses only a single antenna. A combination of low noise FM-CW techniques and a novel integrated microwave assembly enables operation to zero altitude. The SPA-10 operates in the 4300 megacycle band, and is resistant to interference from either companion installation or that arising from external sources."
"A design for a new radar beacon video processor has been evolved which contains a number of novel features. The design places less emphasis than do existing beacon processors on attempting to extract valid target replies from single radar sweeps and places relatively more emphasis on discrimination by comparison of successive sweeps. It employs a flexible sweep-to-sweep association logic and an efficient memory organization which takes full advantage of the available buffering capability."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper descriaes a number of new techniques leading to the development of a completely solid-state source capable of delivering power in excess of 3 watts at a fixed frequency in \"C\" band, or power in excess of 1 watt rapidly tunable within an 18% bandwidth centered at 4.7 gc. The system is designed to carry multichannel FDM-FM, and is locked to a crystal source with a stability of one part in 106. Spurious responses of the exciter are, typically, 60 - 80 db below the output carrier frequency."
"The design and performance of a solid state UHF tunable oscillator are described. The novel features of this unit are its power output capabilities of at least one-quarter watt in thg 370-510 mc range, and a frequency stability of 1 part in 106. Pertinent transistor parameters in connection with this application are discussed. Phase-locked loop considerations affecting oscillator stability are discussed. Results of tests conducted on a prototype unit indicate that high-power output and excellent frequency stability are possible."
"The development of a series of four waveguide tunable band rejection filters designed to eliminate problems in spectrum signature measurements is described. The four filters consist of two C band units (5.0 to 7.0 Gc) and two X band units (8.5 to 12.0 Gc). These filters are tunable over a broad frequency range while maintaining a uniform filter response and a peak rejection in excess of 35 db. The design procedure employed during this development including the theoretical analysis of the cavity and coupling system is presented. The design techniques are directly applicable to many filter designs including band pass filters."
"This paper describes a thermoelectric conversion system which uses a nuclear reactor as a heat source. The converter and the waste-heat radiator form an integral part, and the system makes use of two liquid-metal loops and a heat exchanger to match the characteristics of a nuclear reactor to those of the thermoelectric generator. A thermoelectric-electromagnetic pump provides a means of circulating the liquid metals in both loops. The operating temperatures of the thermoelectric materials used in the design are conservative, permitting a lifetime expectancy of several years."
"A general purpose servo is described which consumes a minimum of power. It reduces its power consumption when at null by cutting off power on its output power stages. This servo utilizes a stepper motor. A second servo is also described which is used as an output servo for a space-borne digital computer. A technique for reducing power and eliminating stability problems is discussed."
"Digital motor speed control is a unique method of highly accurate pulse frequency modulation as applied to speed control of a hysteresis synchronous motor. This method utilizes digital techniques to obtain motor speed accuracy and stability of better than 0.001 percent of the desired value. The device described is basically a digitally controlled variable frequency oscillator whose output pulse frequency is a function of an input command to the system. Frequency modulated pulses, after suitable shaping and power amplification, are applied to the windings of a two phase hysteresis synchronous motor. The speed of the motor is therefore controlled by the input command. A variety of auxiliary feedback loops can be utilized with the method presented to perform various types of control functions."
"Most airborne electronic navigational components are evaluated in the manufacturers' laboratories. Due to present methods of procurement and the problems involved in marrying these components together, the testing of navigation systems frequently culminates in an operational evaluation. Such evaluations ordinarily reduce to a comparison of the aircraft's actual position with that indicated by the system under test. This article describes two methods of determining the aircraft's position; visual observation and photooptical observation. The problems involved and the general magnitudes of the errors which may be expected are discussed. Conclusions are made regarding these two types of observations."
"In order to gain popular acceptance, all weather landing systems must permit the pilot to maintain a monitoring and decision-making function. This calls for a display based on a separate and independent system. One such system and its associated display are discussed."
"The proposed low approach system for steep gradient is a C-band, CW/AM system with side lobe suppression and frequency diversity. It consists of an airborne receiver system, ground transmitter system, and a ground monitoring system. The complete airborne package is solid state, as is the ground installation with the exception of the power amplifier. The proposed system offers high reliability, immunity to multipath, small antenna sizes, and simplicity while still using completely conventional techniques. It also affords easy incorporation of a Distance Measuring Equipment capability."
"This paper describes the techniques by which a low cost, light-weight DME was designed to meet both the requirements of the commercial aircraft and the larger general aviation aircraft. These techniques were applied to three principal areas: Channel selection and tuning, the transmitter/modulator, and the range tracking circuitry."
"Aircraft navigation system accuracy can be optimized by proper integration of present subsystems. The Loran-C coordinate converter is a new tool which facilitates the system integration task. Certain navigation devices, e.g., a doppler-free-gyro subsystem, are calibrated in-flight to yield a much better total navigation system. Self-organizing features are included to perform simple decision-making functions automatically and thus, release the human navigator for more important tasks. The self-organizing navigation system concept shows great promise as the navigation system of the future."
"The synthesis procedures presented herein are the first simple mathematical techniques applicable to distributed RC networks. The methods are significantly different from those presently available in that they do not require recourse to a digital computer for their application. Moreover, because the actual synthesis employs an auxiliary complex plane, the calculations may be accomplished with pencil and pad. The synthesis techniques find immediate application in the field of microelectronics."
"With the invention of transistors and other semiconductor devices and the introduction of the concept of integrated or molecular structures, several new phenomena have been observed in semiconductor devices. The tunnel diode or Esaki diode and the four layer diode or Shockley diode are the two devices which realize several functions in the most simple form. Both of these devices have been used in switching and pulse circuits and linear type of amplification, although the later necessitates the use of circulators for unilateralizing the circuit. The two differ in performance in that the tunnel diode is of the voltage stable type and the Shockley diode of the current stable type. Various device architechtures are briefly summarized."
"The authors consider inverting or \"flipping\" the circuit chip on to an evaporated thin film insulating substrate. Bonding the \"flip-chip\" to matching terminal pads of evaporated aluminum runs on the substrate permits elimination of the weakest part of present planar passivated semjconductor; namely, the bonded lead from the device or circuit to the terminals of the enclosure. Further, this approach offers a solution to present yield problems of the previous method. A test vehicle chosen for \"flip-chips\" was a four stage counter. This is a parallel-carry design involving 24 circuit chips. A hermetic seal package approximately 1.2 inches square, containing a one-inch square substrate is used for interconnection of the circuit chips. Data shows that heat can be transferred efficiently with the flip-chip bonding method. Using the construction method outlined, temperature rises of less than 13°F have been calculated with more efficient transfer possible, if necessary. Complete development of the technique described offers unique characteristics which cannot be obtained in present microelectronic assemblies."
"A five watt servo amplifier has been developed in hybrid microelectronic format. The unit consists of a thin film preamplifier driving a power stage which is mounted directly to a hermetically sealed copper case, The unit is about .3 cu. in. in volume and weighs about 12 oz. Some of the details of design, construction, and performance are described."
"A pulse generator test circuit was fabricated utilizing thin-film technology in conjunction with discrete components to form the final hybrid configuration. The completed functional electronic device contains a unijunction oscillator, an amplifier stage and a pulse shaping circuit to produce a pulse output with a variable repetition rate from less than 5 kilocycles to greater than 100 kilocycles. A detailed discussion is presented on thin-film circuit design, masking techniques, vacuum deposition processes, discrete component attachment, element interconnection, and packaging. A comparative evaluation is made of the thin film hybrid pulse generator and its electronic equivalent in printed circuit board form with respect to performance, size and weight, and apparent reliability."
"This paper discusses the analytical, techniques which can be utilized in the demonstration of telemetry reliability in a system development program. Analytical techniques have been established to provide telemetry equipment reliability predictions at periodic intervals as functional and environmental test data are accrued. A mathematical model has been developed which allows for a realistic and sound approach to the problem. The equations allow for the calculation of telemetry equipment reliability, at any desired confidence level, in both the individual and combined operational environments. These expressions have been programmed on the IBM 7090 Computer to provide a completely mechanized reliability data handling and processing system. Equipment reliability status reports are issued periodically to provide management with a quantitative measure of telemetry equipment reliability, and offer the design engineer an opportunity for any needed redesign early in the program."
"Analytical simulation through a computer program is used for incorporating in design procedures the actual or predicted environmental resistances of aerospace equipment. Through prior environmental testing, the relationships between component parameters and environmental levels may be established. Data may also be analyzed through statistical methods (ERIE Model #2) or by physical considerations (physics of failure, physical laws, synergistic effects) and resulting parametric relationships (ERIE Model #1). By utilizing the statistical and parametric models of component-environment relationships in connection with analog design analysis methods, environmental factors can be included in design considerations. This analog model (ERIE Model #3) has been chosen as a center for the ERIE methodology. For the purpose of demonstrating the feasibility of the design system a fine attitude control system in a polar orbit through the outer Van Allen Belt has been chosen. Data for analysis of the nominal system has been obtained with an IBM 7094 digital computer. Environmental effects on operating parameters are similarly being obtained by digital computer analysis. Evaluation of environmental effects completed to date, as well as analog computer runs on the nominal system, show great promise of this technique to minimize costs of systems testing and to accelerate space programs."
"This paper discusses the application of introspective testing techniques to in-flight checkout of a postulated manned space vehicle. The advantages of introspective testing techniques are shown through comparisons With other in-flight checkout methods. Finally, the principles of introspective testing as applied to checkout of typical radar and communication subsystems are described."
"An earth sensor for determining the orientation of a space vehicle with respect to the earth with a mean time to failure of 29 years, far higher reliability than former sensors, is being developed. The sensor uses a new approach of detecting the earth. This method requires no moving parts and only about ten per cent of the electronic parts required by existing earth sensors. The far infrared radiation from the earth is imaged on temperature sensitive elements which absorb infrared radiation and are heated by it. The sensor uses the difference in temperature between elements to determine the offset angle."
"A design concept for implementing triple-redundant flight control equipment is presented and discussed. Redundancy is required to achieve fail-operative performance in critical flight regimes. A method for passive signal selection in analog control systems is described which utilizes the amplitude-selective properties of conventional digital logic gates. It is shown that an overall improvement in reliability and tolerance spreads can be achieved using this technique in a parallel-series array of functional elements. An \"off-line\" monitoring method is described to permit failure warning indication for cockpit display, and which facilitates fault isolation when used in conjunction with self-test circuits and a maintenance panel display."
"The Douglas Electronic Management System (EMS) is presented in this paper. The requirements and the approach to an efficient electronic management of the subsystems of supersonic transport aircraft are reviewed. A method for assisting the crew by-monitoring, controlling, and recording functions automatically or as specified by the crew is discussed. Tasks considered fran pre-flight checkout to landing include: display of processed data; control of various subsystems; self-test features for pre-flight and in-flight checkout; and recording of flight performance, equipment status, and engineering data. It is shown that the potential of the EMS allows the introduction of a cable multiplexing system which permits the handling of more than one signal per wire."
"Various advertisements."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"A transduction, in the sense of this paper, is a n-ary word relation (which may be a function) describable by a finite directed labeled graph. The class of all n-ary transductions is co-extensive with the Kleenean closure of finite n-ary relations. The 1-ary transductions are exactly the sets recognizable by finite automata. However, for n ≫ 1 the relations recognizable by finite automata constitute a proper subclass of the n-ary transductions. The closure properties of the class of transductions are studied. The decomposition of transductions into simpler ones is also studied."
"The theory of abstract machines has been well developed for the finite automaton [RS] and the Turing machine [D]. More recently, machines intermediate in computing power between the above two classes of machines have been investigated. These machines have some form of unbounded memory, thus giving them more potential computing ability than the finite automata, but the access to the unbounded memory is restricted in some way so that they do not have the full power of a Turing machine. The two forms of restricted unbounded memory we shall consider here are the counter and the pushdown store."
"Methods are presented for synthesizing incomplete logical functions by threshold gate networks. Single-gate realizations are obtained when they exist; otherwise multi-gate networks result. The procedures are simple modifications of the tree method for realizing complete functions. They are not appreciably complicated by the \"don't care\" condition."
"Cascade switching circuits include collapsed-tree, iterative, sequential, multiple iterative, and cascaded sequential switching circuits. The cost of such a circuit is dependent on the order in which the input variables are applied to the circuit. This paper reviews a previously described procedure for the synthesis of cascade circuits and shows how it may be adapted so as to non-enumeratively determine the ordering of the variables which results in the lowest cost circuit."
"This paper describes a new type of circuit realization for asynchronous sequential circuits of the type described by Huffman and Caldwell. This new realization differs from conventional realizations in that delay elements are associated with the input lines. A synthesis procedure is developed for this new type of circuit, and it is proved that a large class of sequential circuits can be realized in this way without including any delay elements in the feedback loops. This class includes sequential circuits containing essential hazards. It is also shown with an example that the resulting circuits can sometimes contain fewer feedback loops and be more economical than conventional circuit realizations."
"This paper summarizes some rather extensive research on the problem of constructing logic nets out of elements whose timing causes trouble either in their slowness or in their lack of precision. The problem is made precise by setting up a theory of logic nets that is abstract but realistic. Its abstractness consists in its lack of similarity to any particular hardware, and in its strictly mathematical formulation, which leaves many engineering problems out of consideration. Its realism consists in its adherence to several stipulations: (S1) There is an upper bound on the fan-in and fan-out of any element. (S2) There is an upper bound on the number of elements that can occupy a given area or volume of space. (S3) There is an upper bound on the distance between two elements that are directly connected together. (S4) There is a lower bound, greater than zero, on the time of operation of any element. (S5) The timing of any element is not precisely predictable; all that is known about how long it will take to switch is an upper bound and a lower bound; beyond this knowledge, the timing is not even statistically predictable. There is theoretical justification in our having assumed, unrealistically that elements never malfunction or wear out. The theory affords a way of constructing, with a constant repetition rate, all finite automata as asynchronous nets that will withstand a worst-case analysis. Similar work by others is compared."
"A method for demonstrating the effects of hazards in sequential relay circuits is given. The device used in the demonstration, containing relays with mirrors glued to their armatures, a light source, a focusing lens, and control circuits for the relays, is described. The armatureposition - relay-excitation diagram, developed by the author for the purpose, is utilized for analyzing the behavior of the relays."
"It can he easily shown that any combinational circuit with only uncomplemented inputs can be realized using three stages of NOR logic. However, if such a circuit is designed by a direct extension of the theory of two-stage circuits using AND Gates and OR Gates. the result- will not be an efficient circuit. In order to design such NOR gate circuits efficiently it is necessary to modify the design techniques so that the third stage gates (those driven directly by the inputs) are. chosen properly. In partioular, it is necessary to allow for the possibility that a gate realizing. a function such as a1 + b1 be used in realizing the function ab1 + a1b as a(a1+b1) + b(a1+b1) rather than two separate gates to generate a1 and b1. A general technique for the design of such circuits is presented in this paper. Interesting features in the design of such networks arise from the fact. that their cost is effected by complementing some of the variables in the functlon."
"The notion of asynchronous switching circuit is roughly understood to be a logical circuit, possibly sequential, in which no special synchronizing signals or \"clock\" are required for proper circuit operation. Many different formulations of this notion appear in the literature, using sequential machine models and networks of logical element models. The following list of references indicates this diversity. In this talk, various restrictions, similarities, and differences of these models will be discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"All airborne equipment is tested for self-generation of interference and for susceptibility to fixed levels of interference as defined by various military and industry specifications. The susceptibility tests fall into two broad categories, conducted and radiated, extending from 50 cps to 10,000 Mc, and often including special magneticfield and transient requirements. This paper will discuss the various types, methods, and limitations of the various tests."
"A mechanism by which electromagnetic energy at quasistatic frequencies may leak out of seemingly shielded compartments via conductors such as external shields of cables, pipes, shafts, bolts, etc., protruding from the interior of the compartment is investigated both theoretically and experimentally. The mechanism involved may be illustrated by considering a conductor, such as a shaft passing through a hole in a conducting wall, and contacting the wall at a finite number of contact regions. These regions represent a short circuit to the TEM mode, however higher modes may pass along the guide whose walls may be represented by the actual regions of contact and the inner and outer coaxial conductors. Attenuated transmission may thus occur at frequencies below the cutoff frequency of the higher modes. As verification of the above hypothesis an impedance relationship, representing the shunt impedance that the contact regions offer at below cutoff frequencies (in particular f = 15 kc), was developed and checked experimentally for continuous pressure and soldered contacts. The experimental data show relatively close comparison with the theoretical model."
"The problem of simulating the effects of an electromagnetic environment on a receiver involves the consideration of the method, or methods, of adequately representing the environment. A statistical simulation is based on the assumption that for a large number of interfering sources the environment can be represented on a statistical basis. For example, the environment may be described by specifying its amplitude and frequency distributions as a function of time, and its autocorrelation function. It is the purpose of this paper to suggest statistical models for simulating pulse densities and amplitudes of rotating radars interfering with an omnidirectional receiver. The environment considered is two dimensional."
"This paper presents a survey of the radiation characteristics (spectrum signatures) of electrical and electronic equipment such as rectifiers, welders, power lines, switching devices, ignition systems, induction heaters, and electric motors. Several equipment signatures were compiled from reports on interference. The reports indicated that some industrial activities radiate strongly enough to cause interference at ranges up to a few miles and that most of the energy is concentrated in the low-frequency portion of the spectrum. The equipment was measured at very low frequencies at the Douglas Aircraft Company, Santa Monica, Calif., using Stoddart Aircraft Radio Company receivers. Graphs of the measurements show strong and unique signatures in the SLF and ULF (30 - 3000 cps) bands."
"The growing problem of cablecoupled interference and the need for prediction techniques are discussed. The basic coupling mechanisms are described and the mutual coupling parameters are defined. An analytical model is postulated for a general N-circuit cable complex, based upon the assumption of linearity. Difficulties in formulating a rigorous solution for the interference transfer functions are discussed. Six possible approaches for deriving the transfer functions are presented, and the general solutions are given. The relative complexity and accuracy of each approach is discussed. A sample analysis is given, illustrating the manner in which pertinent interference parameters can be derived from a knowledge of the interference transfer functions. Analytical results for various cable configurations are compared. Experimental results are presented and compared with theoretical predictions."
"The over-all approach taken in the preparation of RF radiation hazard standards and some basic studies in the areas of RF measurement instrumentation are treated in generalities. Specific problems which need to be investigated before final standards can be formulated are delineated. Emphasis is placed on the evolution and composition of radiation hazard standards, RF radiation instrumentation, electromagnetic wave propagation in the \"near field\" and RF field intensity sensors. Sensor investigations discussed cover the Hall effect and the pearl chain phenomenon."
"Proper wiring minimizes noise sources due to the undesirable coupling of circuits in a data system. Construction of a system central ground for minimum ground-resistance coupling is described. To eliminate other commonresistance coupling, this type construction is specified for all system nodes. Proper location of the ground and node structure permits wiring all noise sensitive circuits with twisted cable, thus minimizing coupling through mutual inductance. Proper shielding, for protection from electrostatic interference, is simplified by this construction. A set of explicit wiring rules, which implement this method, is given. Examples of the application of these rules are included."
"Sweepers, wide-band noise pulses found in the HF range, have been observed at many locations on the globe. They display a changing frequency vs time characteristic. Two types, described as alpha and beta, have been noted. The duration of the beta type is so short that as it sweeps through 500-kc bandwidth its time rate of change of frequency exceeds the time resolution of the equipment. It appears singly or as multiples but most commonly as a double or triple event. The gross features of beta sweepers appear similar to those of atmospherics. Alpha sweepers display a measurable rate of change of frequency with time. They appear in trains; no multiple has yet been found. Alpha sweepers may result from man made or industrial processes, or may arise from solar or cosmic plasma interactions. In appearance on the f-t plane they resemble some solar radio noise bursts. Both sweeper types constitute interference to radio wave communications, especially to wideband systems. Measured sweeper intensities have varied from microvolts to millivolts at a bandwidth of 500 kc. HF sweeper intensities are modified by propagation conditions, distance from the source, solar activity, etc. For example, during the peak of solar activity both alpha and beta sweepers at 26 Mc would propagate more efficiently because of the higher existing MUF."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper develops a model for determining what values of bandwidth, total transmission time and average power to assign to a simple communication system so as to get a message transmitted through interference at minimum cost. Also, for given values of average power, the question is examined as to whether it is best to send single pulses with high peak power or repeat many smaller pulses of lower peak power. The communication system discussed is binary where a \"1\" will be represented by a positive pulse and a \"0\" by a negative pulse. It will be assumed that all possible messages that can be sent (namely M) have been listed and given a binary number. Therefore, in order to be able to identify a particular message we must send N bits (N log2 M). The main assumptions of the model are: 1) Only pure repetition is allowed for redundancy. 2) If one bit is missed, then the entire message is lost. 3) The interference power at the receiver is known and constant with respect to the message power at the receiver."
"This paper is concerned with an environment consisting of N periodic radars, each emitting a periodic pulse train. The number of radars and their periodicities are assumed known but the epoch of each pulse train is a random variable with a uniform distribution. The principal result of this paper is the expression for the probability density function of interpulse intervals of the sum of all the N pulse trains. Only absence or presence of a pulse is considered, and the amplitude distribution is not treated; i.e., any pulse emitted by any of the N radars is considered capable of initiating a new interpulse interval. The obtained result is useful in establishing the control function for the interpulse interval generator of a stochastic interference simulator."
"The only long-range solution to the increasing requirement for spectrum space and the radio frequency interference problem involves: 1) careful equipment engineering to eliminate spurious signal generation and equipment susceptibility to spurious signals, and 2) conservation and efficient use of the RF spectrum as a natural resource. This means system design to require a minimum of spectrum use. With communicating, sensing, and other services competing for spectrum, spurious-signal problems with equipment are receiving much attention, but the requirements for, or contributed value of, the device generating or being affected by the spurious signal are seldom considered. The RFI reduction to be obtained through pursuit of good system design for efficient spectrum use and minimum spectrum requirement is illustrated."
"The interference control plan, as required by leading military interference specifications, has been misunderstood and misused to the extent that its real purpose and value have been obscured. Instead of being a valuable and controlling interference document for a system, many companies submit a plan of no technical value prepared by contract administration personnel. This paper is intended to show what an adequate plan should contain and how it should be utilized."
"The ever-increasing problem of electromagnetic interference and the consequent possible deterioration of communication channels has led the Army to create a field facility to investigate the interference problems which an army corps would encounter during combat. The present facility is able to reproduce the electromagnetic environment of the 12,000 transmitter devices in an army corps. Military transmitters are used to generate the actual combat environment. Various items of electronic equipment are placed into this environment and the amount of degradation in performance created by or affecting this equipment is then measured."
"This paper presents radar signal density measurements for several areas of the United States, together with a correlation of theory and experimental evidence. The results indicate that the average number of pulses per second received from large radar deployments at various signal levels and altitudes can be predicted to within a factor of two over a 50-db dynamic range. Two methods are discussed for reducing interference in future electronic systems by use of signal density predictions."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"A generalization of the reliability model given in Part A of this reliability study is made. The failure and repair rates are assumed to be exponential as in Part A, but the model equations are changed so that the following ramifications are possible. 1) The label case: it is necessary to know which of the similar machines are broken down in order to decide if a system failure has occurred. 2) The parameter case: the values of the failure and repair rates are not the same on each machine. 3) The type of failure case: the system goes from state i to i + j after a failure, j ≧ 1, and to i - k after a repair, k ≧ 1, whereas in Part A j = k = 1 only. A procedure for finding dissimilar machine model equations with time delays before failure and time restoration constraints after repair are given."
"In an effort to correlate failure modes observed on field return transistor failures to life test results, Delco Radio initiated a new type power pulse life test program. The program was added to the normally accepted storage and dc operating programs which did not supply adequate information on burn-through or punch-through failures. The test matrix was designed around a unique three-dimensional dynamic failure rate graphical model. This paper describes the engineering and development of the high-power test equipment required to prove the model. A number of photographs and illustrations of the equipment developed have been included. The design of test circuits for maximum reliability for dynamic testing are also discussed. At the conclusion of the paper, the actual results of the program which are applicable to circuit designers are presented."
"The paper discusses the question of man's value in systems and why the topic has arisen. Personnel impact on reliability of man-machine systems is discussed. What is presently being done, what remains to be accomplished, and methods for improving the reliability of people in systems are outlined. Suggestions for making use of man's inherent reliability to improve systems lead to a discussion of how management can enhance man's contribution to the reliability of the system in which he operates. A discussion of cost of this effort completes the presentation."
"This paper proposes a measure of equipment dependability (reliability) that is related to statistical loss and is suitable for application to complex systems. The relation of this concept, termed effectivity, to other measures is explained and its use is illustrated by application to a specific space system. A prediction of effectivity is described and demonstrated using analytical means and also by applying a novel Monte-Carlo procedure. The results of testing are also presented and compared with the predicted values."
"The general problem and need for reliability estimation and prediction is discussed. Various types of reliability estimates are considered. A general probabilistic model is defined in a set-theoretic framework. The model considers the operation of a system over several time-periods where the operating mode-of the system may change from period to period. A general expression is given for the reliability of a system and also upper and lower bounds. Several theoretical examples are shown by using the model and it is shown how particular applications yield different results depending on the physical situation considered. In addition brief mention is made of a particular reliability study, namely a certain phase of the 3-orbit mission of Project Mercury."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Recounts the life and professional achievements of Frederick J. Bailey Jr."
"In summary, I will keynote this Symposium by expressing the following six points: 1) We accept the view which has been expressed by General Davis and others that reliability is a general management responsibility. 2) To enable general management to do their part effectively, reliability specialists must express their requests for support in terms of cost effectiveness. 3) Reliability is a branch of engineering technology that, like all other branches, must be supported by a research program. 4) After research has provided potentially effective reliability technology, the Program Plan for each project must be such as to ensure effective use of this technology. 5) A system of operations evaluation must be established to give immediate visibility to any deficiencies in compliance with or the results of reliability plans. 6) Our experience has shown the traditional practices of the aerospace industry are well suited to achieving reliability. It is important for customer contracting agencies to recognize that many of the practices which enable industry to create reliability have to be supported by overhead funds. Almost the entire Reliability Resources Development Program must be absorbed by our overhead budget. Also, it is important for these contracting agencies to recognize that reliability resources must be an important factor in ``Make'' or ``Buy'' decisions. For example, the Prime Contractor's resources include design assurance and quality assurance disciplines which may be lost when an item is transferred from the ``Make'' to the ``Buy'' category."
"This paper proposes a method for the statistical evaluation of small subsystems performance. The method requires that performance data from a small subsystem be analyzed using a multiple linear regression method; this has been programmed for a digital computer making use of a step-wise solution. The result along with predetermined component variation is then used in a computer programmed Monté Carlo simulation to develop both the output distribution and descriptive statistics. Experimental results from a small, one-core impulse-switched memory system are presented. Other applications include the analysis of high speed computer circuits; one application integrated circuitry, offers great promise."
"This paper uses the large scale testing and component part evaluation work done at Corning during the years 1959-1962 to exemplify the nature and scope of similar work done in several component part fields by various manufacturers. This material is used to introduce a discussion of a very important question: that of methods for promoting the use and preservation of this vast industrial investment of time and money."
"This paper discusses reliability properties of some simple paralleled or redundant systems, where repair is possible in case of failure. We are assuming here that a ``failure'' may always be instantly identified, and the appropriate steps taken. In certain problems such an assumption is not warranted. The ``systems'' discussed are composed of two identical ``subsystems,'' e.g., computers, or radars, and the system is considered to be in a state of failure when, and only when, both subsystems are simultaneously in such a state. Such system design strategies have been proposed for various applications, but have received little analysis. Two measures of reliability are discussed: 1) the time to system failure, measured from an instant at which both subsystems are operative, and 2) the long-run availability of the system, where the latter means the average fraction of the time during which the system is able to perform its function. Analysis is based on the assumption of ``random'' (Poisson-like) failure for the subsystems (for theoretical justification see Drenick [2]), and independent but otherwise arbitrarily distributed repair times. It is of some interest that several of the important operational measures deduced, depend in detail upon the form of the distribution of repair times, as it is summarized in its Laplace transform, and not simply upon certain simple averages or moments of repair time."
"Maintainability analysis stands today where reliability was ten years ago. Many and varying definitions of maintainability have been proposed; many mathematical approaches to maintainability and its various aspects have been pursued. Nevertheless, there is presently no general agreement on the definition of maintainability or on the technique of its quantification. In addition, there is insufficient meaningful maintainability field and laboratory data. As in the case of reliability, analytical techniques are only a part of the maintainability improvement effort. There is a need for improvement in both the design of the total maintenance system as well as analytical techniques for its evaluation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Much conjecture exists regarding the special effects of space environments as reliability stressors on common electronic parts. To understand the unique risks associated with these additional factors, it is useful to envision their presence as superimposed sources of activation energy. This, in turn, demands a general mathematical model for part failure rate synthesis which relates statistical risk with energy level. Such a mathematical model has been developed and is worthy of close examination from the view-point of additional space environment risks. Thus, an energy level concept affords mathematical equations from which the statistical risks in ``unproven'' operational environments can be inferred from an extrapolation of a wealth of conventional operational experience. This paper contends that advances in the art of space material test and evaluation must have their roots in a comprehensive understanding of terrestrial tests and statistical failure rate criteria. Any useful comprehension must be based upon a rank order of part stressors where ground environment factors are essential prerequisites. Once examined from an energy viewpoint, failure tendencies and their underlying material mechanisms can be usefully depicted mathematically using energy as a helpful common denominator. It remains then to deliberate upon the appropriate material test evidences to establish tables of part usage risk for space environments with the same level of completeness as has been established for terrestrial operating conditions."
"In this paper, the behavior of a complex system having two types of components is examined with regard to Dependability [1]. The Laplace transforms of various probabilities for the general case have been obtained and from this, for some particular cases, the probabilities that the system is operating under normal efficiency, reduced efficiency or in the failed state are deduced. In the end, the behavior of the system under steady state has been examined. It may be remarked that the supplementary variable technique [3], [4] has been employed to solve the problem."
"This paper considers the possibility of the inclusion of general waiting time distributions for failed system while examining its behavior with regard to dependability. The probabilities that the system is operable, waiting for repair and under repair are obtained. Some particular cases are also discussed in details. The behavior of the complex system under steady state has also been examined. It may be noted that in the particular case when the simple system is put under repair instantaneously the results correspond to those obtained by Hosford [1]."
"Quadded Logic, a technique for the introduction of redundancy to digital systems, allows a number of component failures to occur in the system without disturbing its capacity to perform the function for which it was designed. This paper describes quadded logic using the NOR gate as the basic building block. A reliability prediction technique is shown with which the performance of this redundancy scheme can be evaluated. The gains in reliability possible through the use of quadding depend on the reliability of the nonredundant gates that make up the redundant stage. Where these gates are already very reliable, the probability of failure of the NOR function can be reduced by several orders of magnitude."
"This presentation describes, in more detail than heretofore published, the properties of the Weibull distribution using the following equation: f (t; α, ß, γ) = ß/αß(t - γ)ß-1 exp[-(t-γ/α)ß],t >γ, where α > 0 is a scale parameter in time units ß > 0 is a shape parameter (dimensionless) γ (any real value) is a location parameter in time units. Conditions on the shape parameter ß for the existence of a mode and inflection point are given; the locations of and the values of the function at these points are traced as ß grows from zero to infinity. The behavior of the median and first four moments is described and presented in tabular form as a function of ß. Other interesting features of this distribution are noted. Finally, given the fatilure times of n randomly selected units, the maximum likelihood equations are derived. When solved by machine computer methods, these equations will give approximations for the maximum likelihood estimators of the three parameters."
"A map method, similar to Boolean-algebra-type truth maps, is presented for solving probability combinatorial problems. This map technique is shown to be of universal application and simplicity, being equally useful for both series-parallel and nonseries-parallel types of probability combinations. Moreover, it is extendable, in two dimensions, to any finite number of variables."
"This paper presents a simple, and yet rigorous approach in developing the mathematical model of success in the reliability analysis of complex systems. Shown are detailed methods of computation of reliability where dependent or mutually exclusive failure modes are involved. It may also be applied in the statistical analysis of interrelated functions. The methods of Bootean logic are combined with the theory of probability to determine a computational routine for the development of the reliability model."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The reduction and control of failures in electronics systems is essential due to: 1) the need for maximum safety of personnel on exotic missions; 2) the long unattended life required of space systems; 3) the high dollar costs to buy additional systems and support additional maintenance personnel required to compensate for the unreliability and system down-time. As practiced by advanced organizations, efforts to reduce parts failures by design controls and conventional statistical reliability methods are a necessary condition of reliability, but not a sufficient one. For clarity and background, present reliability and failure rate theory and practices are reviewed briefly and some limitations pointed out. The physics and the mechanisms of actual failures are discussed and it is pointed out that failures follow the laws of cause and effect; that they are therefore intrinsically predictable. The concept of random failures is valid in a statistical sense but it should not discourage efforts to predict and prevent individual failure by all means open to us. A powerful method of failure prevention is a thorough system test prior to use when the test is geared to look for failures where they can be detected. Lack of precision in terminology is part of the problem of failure control; we commonly intermingle references to failures by source, by cause, by end-effect, and by symptom. An improved organization and definition of failures is developed through which the methods, means, and limitations of failure detection, prediction, and prevention can be established."
"A worst case designed circuit is defined and, based on observed component failure modes, a mathematical model for circuit reliability is obtained. A special case of the general model is then considered by assuming all the component failure rates to be equal. Using this simplified model it is established that a worst case designed nonredundant circuit is more reliable than the product of the reliabilities of its components. The mean time to failure (MTTF) is computed and it is shown that, for particular extreme values of the parameter p, the MTTF assumes the classical forms more frequently seen in the literature."
"In this paper we describe how a model based on the theory of continuous-time Markov processes can be used to compute the reliability of electronic circuits, from data on the drift and failure of the individual components of the circuit. Specific examples of the method are given to show that useful results are obtained."
"In this report we will discuss four problems in statistical inference for Markov chains. Specifically, techniques are described to do the following: 1) estimate the transition probabilities of first- and second-order stationary Markov chains; 2) test the hypothesis that a stationary Markov chain is of first order against the alternate hypothesis that the chain is of second order; and 3) test the hypothesis that a first-order Markov chain has stationary transition probabilities against the alternate hypothesis that the transition probabilities are not stationary. A technique is also developed which can be used in testing to determine whether two parameters of a single electronic component drift independently of each other. The results of these tests are used to draw some inference about continuous-time Markov processes."
"A fundamental and unified treatment of problems akin to the classical Swedish Machine Problem is presented. Section I describes the nature of the systems known as cyclic replacement systems. In Section II pertinent facts about Markov processes are gathered. In Section III, it is shown that a certain class of cyclic systems behave as homogeneous Markov processes. The special class of homogeneous Markov processes known as homogeneous birth and death processes is considered in Section IV. Results of Section IV are applied to some cyclic replacement systems in Section V. In Section VI some systems are treated which cannot be represented as birth and death processes."
"The necessary mathematical conditions are derived for maximizing system reliability for a given system weight or minimizing system weight for a given reliability. Cost may also be introduced. Several efficient methods of calculation are reviewed for determining the optimized reliability-weight relations."
"This paper developes two algorithms for finding the time-dependent reliability of any active-redundant system in terms of component failure probabilities. These algorithms apply to non-loaded, continuously-operating systems in which drift-type failures are neglected. The first algorithm is used when each component can fail in only one mode. A procedure, based on the Quine-McCluskey technique from switching circuit theory, is stated in conjunction with this algorithm which permits rapid simplification of the reliability expression. Two failure modes are permitted in the second algorithm. The relation between the expressions resulting from the algorithms and lifetime random variables is given so that the algorithms do not depend on specific component failure distributions."
"A system consists of n-identical parallel subsystems, each having an exponential distribution of times to failure and an exponential distribution of times to repair. The system reliability with repair is the probability of no more than q out of n subsystems being simultaneously in a failed state during time t. Under conditions frequently met in practice, system reliability with repair R(t) can be approximated by: R(t) ≅ exp [-t/Tm] where Tm is the mean time for the system to pass for the first time from zero to (q + 1) simultaneous subsystem failures. Exact and approximate methods of calculating Tm are developed. A detailed error analysis is presented showing the limitations of using Tm to calculate system reliability with repair."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Random-access file storage adds a new degree of freedom over sequential storage on tape, but sequential accessibility may still be an important measure of performance of a random-access storage device. High sequential speed improves file loading and dumping, periodic file review, and the scanning involved in many file addressing methods."
"The organization of a file in random access storage for efficient retrieval of records is an important and recurring problem in systems design. The usual form of the retrieval problem is: to find a particular record, given the content of one predetermined field (the key) of that record."
"In comparing this programming language with others, it is necessary to consider not only its use in description and analysis (which has been emphasized here), but also its use in the execution of algorithms, i.e., its use as a source language to be translated into computer code for the purpose of automatic execution."
"The location of factories, warehouses—and supply points in general, to serve customers distributed over a network of cities—is often influenced by transportation costs."
"In conclusion it should be noted that the practical use of these classification techniques will usually require the use of high speed computing facilities. This is especially true if the dimension of the problem is at all large or if one must empirically generate the conditional istribution of the statistic being used by utilizing the individual observations available in the samples. There are many unresolved problems associated with the use of many of these techniques, but it is felt that the systematic exploration of their applicability in many practical problems cannot help but advance the general state of the art. Although the discriminating power of the set of variables currently being accumulated can be determined, the characteristics of the underlying distributions and the relative effectiveness of the competitive procedures must in many respects be tackled pragmatically. Attention must be given to the problem of estimating both the underlying a priori probabilities associated with the populations being considered along with the misclassification cost factors. Individuals may feel that such refinements are inappropriate to their particular classification problem, but it can be argued that until one addresses himself to the problem in some such systematic and scientific way, no real improvement can be expected. The criterion of worth of any system is its operational effectiveness and thus one should not only feel challenged to obtain estimates of the operational effectiveness of the “system” he is now using, but he should also investigate how the effectiveness may be improved by using one of the above statistical classification techniques."
"Since the first stored-program computer was built, the importance of programming in the total computing system has grown continuously. The programming interface between user and computer—the system programs—has become a key factor in the full exploitation of technological advances in hardware design. The formulation of design principles based on systems programming experience will stimulate further advances in computing technology. From such experience an effort has been made in this set of papers to define design concepts that are independent of a particular hardware environment with the expectation that they will prove valuable for future systems development."
"In the past few years, programming methods in general use have tended to emphasize modularity of program design; not only for large, complex programs, but even for those of relatively modest size. A common method for achieving modularity has been to divide the program into (relocatable) segments, because: • Coding and checkout of the individual segments can proceed in parallel, thereby considerably reducing the time between analysis of the problem and availability of a running program. • Modifications to the program, which are usually confined to a few segments, can be accomplished without the necessity of reassembling the entire program. • Duplication of effort can be minimized by taking advantage of libraries of previously checked-out subroutines. Different programming techniques can be used for the various segments, thus allowing the exploitation of the strong points of a particular language or processor."
"In 1945, Vannevar Bush published a famous article1 discussing his “memex” machine in which information would be selected by methods of association, rather than indexing. This paper2 will describe in general outline an information processing system which is based on methods of association, and which is designed as an extension of the von Neumann3 general purpose computer organization."
"We consider the problem of evaluating several proposals and selecting one or more which in some sense “best” meet certain objectives. For example, the executive may wish to select from among a set of available projects a combination which will meet certain objectives relative to sales, sales staff, profitability, and capital investment over some particular period of time. Generally, multiple objectives are in conflict. For example, sales can probably be increased by increasing sales staff, but this affects profitability and capital investment. Thus, the problem is one of “trade-offs” which is not difficult if there are only a few choices. However, if there are many choices available and numerous objectives, simple “enumerative” approaches to the problem cease to be of utility, since the number of possible combinations becomes astronomical in size."
"When compared with a single processor mode of operation, the directly coupled multiprocessing system concept attacks the following: • Reduction of lost time due to operator errors and inefficient handling of physical queues for problem setup and breakdown by integrating the card-to-tape, compute, and tape-to-printer functions. This is often referred to as automating the machine room. • Reduction of inter-job computational processor idle time by dynamic scheduling of jobs for the main processor in order to overlap tape mounting and demounting with processing of other jobs. • Reduction of job breakdown time by dynamic scheduling of output printers and punch according to priority, printer paper conditions, etc. • Reduction in the processing time of individual jobs by sharing the functions of an input output control system between the two processors in parallel and by more buffering on both input and output. • Expansion of usable program storage space in the computational processor by removing from it much of the IBJOB MONITOR and INPUT OUTPUT CONTROL SYSTEM. • Reduction of computational processor idle time due to the printing on line of accounting information and operator instructions by transferral to the monitor processor. • Reduction of computational processor idle time due to erroneous or undesired halts by positive control by the monitor processor to initiate dump and restart procedures. • Reduction in excess file access time due to random addressing by control and scheduling of all file references by the monitor processor."
"The storage allocation algorithm considered brings programs and data into core as they are needed, directing the former to contiguous positions in lower core and the latter into contiguous positions in upper core."
"A large amount of time is spent in laboratory work in the two important operations of data-taking and data-analysis. Further experiments often accept as a base the accuracy of the present data and the reliability of the analyses. Thus, wherever it is possible, one attempts to use the best instruments available for the data-collection and the best in computing techniques for the data-analysis. In addition, in any new work, a procedure is established as quickly as possible so that reproducibility can be obtained. Then, as in any industry, whenever either a data-taking or a data-analysis procedure becomes fairly standardized, and achieves the status of a “tool”, efforts are made to mechanize it, to make it faster, to make it more reproducible, and to make it less susceptible to human error. Many accepted laboratory techniques, or more broadly speaking, production techniques, are presently passing through this mechanization stage."
"The first part of the paper reviews some of the previous work on the pattern identification problem. The second part discusses the technique employed to determine a suitable linear decision function. Finally, an experimental system and its implementation are described, and results obtained in testing are reported."
"Prior to the manufacture of a product which is composed of many parts, it is necessary to determine how many parts of each kind are required.1,2 The process of determining the number of parts required to build a planned number of a given product is called a requirements generation or parts explosion. For example, to manufacture one square, jeweled box with a lid, the parts shown in Table 1 are needed for assembly (or, in manufacturing terminology, for final assembly). To build 200 such boxes, obviously 200 times each quantity listed is needed. This is the essence of requirements generation."
"Simulation of large projects and of complex processes on digital computers has become a common practice. Choice of proper input data for such a simulation nearly always constitutes a serious problem because of the difficulty in predicting what the actual data will be when the project or process is put into operation. Examples are costs and prices (in market simulations and business games), enemy and own strategy and strength (in war games), atmospheric and space conditions (in flight simulations), raw material and power supply (in production simulations), climatic conditions and water flows (in hydrological and hydroelectric simulations), etc."
"Historically, the principal functions of a loader have been to: • Determine the operational locations of a program's parts (instructions and data). • Translate all non-absolute references (relative location addresses of data and instructions, and inter-program part references) to their absolute forms. • Make the initial placement of data and instructions in core so that the program may be properly executed."
"This paper is devoted to the 7090/94 version of the system's FORTRAN compiler, IBFTC, which translates FORTRAN IV language programs into MAP assembly language programs."
"This paper describes the general considerations governing the design of the system's 7090/94 COBOL compiler (IBCBC),1,2 gives a brief outline of the structure of the compiler and explains some of the techniques that were incorporated."
"This paper has defined a method for evaluation of some major “intangible” aspects of an information processing system in terms of its contribution to the dynamic control of a firm as measured by the overall economic performance of the firm."
"PERT1,2, LESS3, CPM4,5 and other techniques applied to the planning, scheduling and control of projects involve the construction of project representations called networks which pictorialize the relationships among the component activities of the particular project under consideration."
"Of course, there are a myriad of addit,ional approaches in addition to those itemized above. When all promising alternatives have been evaluated, it is useful to look at the overall system design and ask the following questions: 1. Have all objectives been attained? 2. What are its strong points? weak points? 3. Where is the time and cod concentrated? 4. Is there a radically different approach that should be examined?"
"This is the first of a series of expository papers, to appear periodically, dealing with selected statistical techniques which can be conveniently applied with the use of a digital computer to a substantial range of practical problems. The present paper discusses a technique, developed by G. E. P. Box and K. B. Wilson, which permits solution of the problem of finding an optimum (or minimum) value without first finding the underlying mathematical model. Applications of the method and the accompanying programming problem are also considered."
"In the earlier design of real-time commercial data processing systems, efforts were made to use existing electronic computers, essentially without modification. Simple intermediate buffering devices, capable of serializing, deserializing and temporarily storing one or a few characters, were designed to link the communications channels and the central computer. This tended to overtax the computer and decrease its data processing efficiency. Furthermore, it created an extensive set of difficult programming problems."
"In real-time systems which demand uninterrupted servicing of incoming messages, it is customary to employ duplexed central computers, so that one may take the place of the other when needed. Questions arise concerning: 1. The economic justification of the second computer. 2. Keeping the operating personnel constantly alert and prepared for sudden switchover. 3. Loss of information and reduction in service when such switch-over occurs."
"This paper considers the propagation of waves in a transmission line loaded with thin permalloy films. Since the films are driven to saturation, the transmission line equations which are derived to describe the wave propagation are nonlinear. The nonlinearity requires the use of shock wave analyses, and a derivation of the appropriate shock relations is included. The problems of a line loaded with a single film and a line loaded with a periodic array of films are both treated. The saturation front moving along a string of films is shown to be the shock front. The shock speed, which is determined in terms of the parameters of the circuit, is then the operational speed limit of a thin film memory."
"A theoretical study, based on the re-entrant jet model, is made of the growth of the separation region in the fluid jet amplifier. The flow is taken to be inviscid but dissipation of momentum is obtained by means of the re-entrant jet. The effect of control port pressure and wall angle on the size of the separation region is calculated. Several other versions of the model are suggested."
"Lead films evaporated onto thin nucleating layers of Cu, Ag, and Au were studied by the techniques of electron diffraction and electron microscopy. Electron micrographs indicated that films nucleated with Au become continuous much sooner than films nucleated with Ag or Cu. Examination of the diffraction pattern showed Au to be the only metal of the three to form an intermetallic compound with lead, indicating that compound formation aids in nucleation."
"The dynamic behavior of plane, self-acting, pivoted slider bearings of infinite length is examined for the case of an incompressible lubricating film. The equations of motion for the slider are derived, with the lubricant force expressed in terms of the motion-coordinates and their derivatives and of the parameters that characterize the system. Equilibrium positions of the system are determined numerically and the stability of small motions in the neighborhood of these positions is examined. The nature of large motions is investigated by numerical integration of the equations of motion, and the transient behavior of the system is shown and discussed for some specific cases."
"An error correction unit has been installed in an IBM RAMAC® 305 to demonstrate automatic correction of burst errors originating in a computer memory. Employing a cyclic code requiring two percent redundancy, the unit has successfully corrected all four-bit and most five-bit error bursts in a 100-character record stored on a defective disk. Details of the error correction unit and test results are presented; two special cases involving block length are also discussed."
"A cathode ray tube device is described in which up to 4000 flicker-free characters are displayed dynamically. The developmental system is designed to permit monitoring the display while data are inserted, deleted or corrected by means of a keyboard. This system uses a novel positioning method which combines electrostatic and magnetic techniques."
"A nonlinear absorber of light is a substance having an unique property: its optical absorptivity is altered by light irradiation. The phenomenon is known as photochromism when the changes in optical absorbtivity are in such a wavelength range and on such a time scale as to be visually apparent. Photochromism has long been a plague to dye manufacturers. It has recently been the basis of many curious and ingenious inventions.' The present Communication is inspired by the possible use of nonlinear absorbers in various sorts of data processing applications, including multilevel logic devices. Soqmuae ntitative results pertaining to such systems are developed for a model nonlinear optical absorber and presented here"
"Microglossaries have been frequently suggested as a practical solution to some of the semantic and homonym problems encountered in automatic tran~lation.1–4 This Communication indicates a systematic approach to solving those problems."
"In a recent paper Chase1 investigated the stability of various predictor-corrector methods. He showed among other things that during integration of the initial value problem y′ = −a·y + b, y(0) = 0, a > 0, the modified Hamming method exhibits instability at an integration step h with h·a ≥ 0.85. It can be shown that the well known fourth-order Runge-Kutta method2 remains stable for all h with h#x00B7;a < 2.783 Inasmuch as Hamming's method requires two derivative evaluations per time step, as against four for the Runge-Kutta method, stable integration from 0 to 1 requires a minimum of 2.35·a derivative evaluations for Hamming's method as against 1.44·a derivative evaluations for the Runge-Kutta method. Thus the extra derivative evaluations per single time step for the Runge-Kutta method do not seem as serious a drawback as might at first appear."
"This Communication presents some high-speed photographs showing the effects of high-energy, focused laser beams striking targets of steel, brass, and aluminum. For the light flux densities used, these photographs seem to support recent speculation1–3 that the absorption of intense laser radiation will heat the material at some depth below the surface to its vaporization temperature before the material at the surface has absorbed its latent heat of vaporization. This is thought to induce a pulse of high pressure in the underlying material and to result in the emission of the vaporized material similar to a chemical explosion."
"The exact expressions for the diffraction pattern produced by a single sinusoidal groove and for finite gratings have been derived and compared with the expressions commonly used. We have shown that the usual approximations are valid only in the limit of gratings with an infinite number of grooves. Attention is given to the case of color thermoplastic recording, where the number of grooves is expected to be few."
"This Communication considers a queueing problem that arises in the design and evaluation of circulating types of computer storage devices, such as magnetic drums. This many-line, many-server queueing problem is treated using approximate methods, and the distribution is determined for the number of items waiting in one of the lines."
"The problem of efficiently retrieving documents and other information from large-scale memory and file systems has generated much renewed interest in the comparatively old area of “hash-” or key-addressing. Among the more promising approaches taken has been the application of some results of the theory of group codes, as typified by the papers of Schay and Raver1 and of Hanan and Palermo.2 Common to the work of these authors and some of the earlier work of Muroga3 is the idea of choosing a group code of the minimum-distance type and assigning addresses to keys according to the group-code coset in which particular keys fall. The most interesting class of group codes from an implementation point of view is that in which encoding and decoding is accomplished by means of shift-registers for polynomial multiplication and division. We shall restrict our attention to this class and shall refer to the use of such codes as polynomial addressing."
"W. Z. Zagwirński* points out in a private communication to the Editor that in Fig. 5 of “A Theoretical Solution for the Magnetic Field in the Vicinity of a Recording Head Air Gap”1 the curve pertaining to the rectangular head case (α = 1/2) is numerically in error. This curve, which was quoted from a paper by Booth2, depicts the variation of the field intensity E along the axis of symmetry (v axis) for the rectangular head case. Zagwiński indicates that the curve for this case, where (α = 1/2, and curves for (α = 11/18, 2/3, 3/4, and 1 should be as shown in the accompanying Fig. 1. The curve for α = 1/2 never crosses the curves corresponding to other values of α. Obviously, corrections are also required Fig. 6 of the authors' paper. The new curves of Fig.2 incorporate these corrections"
"A general theory of cyclic codes correcting a set of given types of errors is presented. Codes published by Abramson, Fire, Melas and others are accounted for in this theory, which also offers several new classes of codes. These new codes are competitive with existing ones. In burst-error correction, for certain message lengths they may be better since they may need fewer parity check bits."
"A method is developed for determining, to the first order, the deflection from a straight path of a perfectly flexible tape moving near a rigid cylinder. The case of a parabolic cylinder is considered."
"Localized torsional stress is applied on the surface of a homogeneous elastic sphere for a short duration of time. The propagation of the disturbance caused by this stress is calculated numerically by superposing the normal mode solutions. The phases of the body waves and surface waves are obtained."
"Techniques used in the theory of error-correcting codes are applied to solve the problem of addressing a large file. This novel approach to the file addressing problem is illustrated with a specific design to show feasibility. Its effectiveness is further illustrated by comparing test results obtained from a simulated calculation, which used typical data, against values calculated from an ideal model."
"In this paper a file address problem is proved to be equivalent to a problem in coding theory. Results in coding theory can thus be used in solving this file addressing problem. It is shown, in particular, how the theory of Bose-Chaudhuri codes can be applied. A simple transformation from the input information to its address is given. This method can be easily implemented using either a computer or shift registers."
"An analysis is given of the magnetization of a cylindrical thin film exhibiting a uniaxial anisotropy in the circumferential direction. The magnetization and demagnetizing fields are derived for the cylinder where the magnetization is not uniform. The derivation is accomplished by dividing up the cylinder into a large number of uniformly magnetized, coaxial cylindrical regions in superposition and by integrating their individual contributions. Some applications of the derivation are shown for several specified field geometries. The technique of superposition may be applied to other film geometries."
"A liquid scintillation counter with an active volume of one liter is described. The plastic anticoincidence shield reduces background by about 25 percent in the H3 and C14 region. Photomultiplier noise is effectively eliminated by nanosecond coincidence circuitry. The tunnel diodes used in the coincidence arrangement also act as baseline or window discriminators. Counting efficiency for C14 solutions is 85 percent, limited mainly by light collection."
"This Communication describes an improved method for fabricating multiple-image photographic masks of high quality. Photographic masks are commonly used in the fabrication of silicon transistors and diodes. Such masks are needed in sets of five, ten, or even twenty, each being used for one of the steps in the photoengraving-type fabrication process. Arrays of many devices are made at one time on a silicon wafer. The photographic masks are the corresponding arrays of microscopic images. Figure 1 shows a portion of two representative transistor masks. The center-to-center distance between the devices may typically be 0.020″, 0.025″ or 0.030″, with a total of perhaps 1000 devices in the array."
"Given a burst-correcting code for short messages, it would seem practical and would be desirable to derive efficient codes for correcting the same types of bursts in longer messages. This note presents a simple method of constructing such codes, and supplies a geometric interpretation of the method. The Fire burst correcting codes1 are a special case of the class of codes presented here."
"Classic lubrication theory has generally been directed toward fluid films bounded by solid objects that were assumed to be infinitely rigid. This assumption, however, is contrary to the physical nature of things. Blok and van Rossum1 introduced the concept that the rigid bearing could be replaced with a perfectly flexible band. This configuration has been termed the foil bearing. It represents the other extreme situation. Between these limits then are the cases of practical engineering interest. The hydrodynamic air lubrication of magnetic tape over magnetic heads, to prevent contact and wear, closely approximates the foil bearing. From the viewpoint of engineering design there is a great deal of interest in this configuration. The parameters of the foil bearing discussed in this Communication are shown in Fig. 1."
"Stimulated emission from forward biased p-n GaAs junctions has been reported by several laboratories.1,2 Most of the reported spectroscopic measurements have been made under medium resolution. This Communication reports high-resolution measurements of the line width as well as the dependence of the GaAs stimulated emission characteristics on hydrostatic pressure."
"In a recent paper in the IBM Journal Lasher1 gives the relation for threshold current in a p-n junction laser as j = 8πqn′2 dΔv/αλ2 [α0 + T/1 + αdiff, (1) where q = electronic charge n′ = index of refraction d = width of active region Δv = width of spontaneous emission line λ = wavelength α = quantum efficiency T = percent of light transmitted through end of laser I = length of crystal along active region between reflectors αdiff = diffraction loss α0 = absorption loss in the active region."
"The technique described offers the following advantages compared to the method proposed by Mitchell et al. : 1. It is safer because perchloric acid is eliminated from the electrolyte. 2. Individual dislocation sites are resolved at moderate magnifications by etch pits. 3. Bright field illumination, which is a simpler, more convenient method than phase contrast and provides better resolution, can be used to reveal the substructure"
"An exploratory model has been constructed in a study of packaging and circuit techniques for a high-speed computer technology. An Arithmetic and Logic Unit capable of processing 64-bit words in floating-point format was fully designed. From this design a nucleus system comprising 424 circuits and 1838 transistors was abstracted, built, and tested. In this model, a delay of 2.2 nsec per level of logic was achieved in worst-case paths. This figure includes the wiring and power driver delays."
"Directly coupled logic circuits utilizing silicon transistors have been developed in the Advanced Circuit Program. Silicon transistors possess sufficient field gradient in the collector-base “diode” to permit high-speed operation under a forward-biased condition. Current-switching techniques provide the well-controlled voltage levels which permit operation in this region without sacrificing high speed. Operation in this region permits circuit simplification and low power dissipation."
"Beginning with a brief history of tunnel diode memories, this paper describes the factors leading to the present design approach. Array design criteria are discussed at length. Examples of engineering applications are given, including a cross-sectional model of a “scratch pad” memory for use with Advanced Circuit Program logic circuitry."
"Characterization of devices for high speed ACP (Advanced Circuit Program) circuits demands an accurate study of transients and switching delays. This paper describes (a) the large-signal transistor model evolved for the purpose of carrying out such an analysis; (b) methods of measuring device parameters with relevant theory; (c) computational techniques most adaptable; and (d) correlation between predicted and observed transients. Many new ideas in the development of the device model, measurements, and computational procedure are reported and could be used for any general circuit analysis."
"This paper proposes a new mathematical model to describe the distribution of the occurrence of errors in data transmission on telephone lines. We suggest: a) that the statistics of telephone errors can be described in terms of an error probability depending solely on the time elapsed since the last occurrence of an error; b) that the distribution of inter-error intervals can be well approximated by a law of Pareto of exponent less than one; the relative number of errors and the equivocation tend, therefore, to zero as the length of the message is increased. The validity of those concepts is demonstrated with the aid of experimental data obtained from the German telephone network. Further consequences, refinements, and uses of the model are described in the body of the paper."
"This paper presents a general system configuration for an arithmetic unit of a computer, which is used to solve polynomial problems efficiently. The technique is based on a digit-by-digit computation of the coefficients of the given polynomial, after the origin has been displaced systematically. Compared with standard techniques, the new scheme, closely allied with Horner's method, is similar in efficiency for polynomial evaluation and is superior for locating roots. The fact that the computed coefficients are related to the derivatives permits the systematic location of all real roots of a real polynomial."
"A fundamental problem for biochemistry is the determination of the linear sequence of amino acids in proteins. This paper describes a computer-oriented logic for obtaining such determination. The logic applies successively stronger decision rules to extract the required information on the protein sequence."
"The coupling between a bit line and its adjacent sense line in a word-organized memory array is a phenomenon of considerable concern to the memory designer. In many cases, the bit noise induced in the sense line during a WRITE cycle is sufficiently large to saturate and block the sensitive sense amplifier if steps are not taken to minimize the effects of the bit-sense coupling. This Communication presents a method for directing this noise away from the input terminals of the sense amplifier by utilizing the inherently directional properties of the coupling between two parallel transmission lines"
"In a recent article by Sierra,1 a symmetrical constant-resistance lattice (Fig. 1) was proposed as the realization of a passive pulse-slimming filter. A fourth-order realization contains four reactive elements in each of four lattice arms. The component values of the filter must be accurately bridged to obtain optimum results."
"A computer program has been written to design character recognition logic based on the processing of data samples. This program consists of two subroutines: (1) to search for logic circuits having certain constraints on hardware design, and (2) to evaluate these logics in terms of their discriminating ability over samples of the character set they are expected to recognize. An executive routine is used to apply these subroutines to select a complete logic with a given performance and complexity. This logic consists of 39 to 96 and gates connected to a shift register and a table look-up or resistance network comparison system."
"A character recognition system has been developed for the recognition of handwritten numerals. This system uses a logically controlled cathode ray tube scanner to generate basic measurements that characterize significant features of the numeral shapes. A contour-follower procedure is used to control the scanner. In addition, special scanner subroutines initiated by feedback from the recognition logic are utilized. Character shape data are generated in a sequential form, which can be analyzed for recognition with an easily realizable logic. An experimental model has been built that recognized 99.3% of numerals written by 45 subjects after 30 minutes of training. The error rate for these characters was 0.11%. The rejected character rate was 0.59%."
"It has been proven that the principle of superposition applies to a magnetic read-back waveform. Consequently, each pulse can be treated as an isolated transient, and a linear passive network can be used to reduce its width. In many cases this effective increase in read-back resolution would permit an increase in the operating density. The isolated read-back pulse is first approximated by a Gaussian curve. A second approximation is effected in the frequency domain, and a table of transfer functions is obtained. A network is designed using one of the transfer functions, and the solution is given an algebraic form. One particular case is illustrated numerically and the laboratory results are shown."
"The photoelectric emission from a nickel ribbon has been observed as a function of temperature from 25° to 760°C, over a wavelength range from 2250 to 2530 Å, qualitatively confirming and extending Cardwell's earlier work. The yield increases with temperature at all wavelengths, with an upward bulge near the Curie point. Fowler-Dubridge analyses of the emission from the front face of the ribbon, which is found to contain mainly (111) facets after extensive outgassing, yield values of the work function ranging from about 5.07 ev at 25°C to about 5.20 ev at 760°C. Behavior below the Curie point may be consistent with the magnetization-squared dependence recently suggested by Wonssowski, et al."
"A formal synthesis procedure is developed for active networks. The transfer admittance function is realized in parallel RC subnetworks, one of which contains a current-reversal negative impedance converter. This procedure offers several advantages over existing methods."
"Colloidal suspensions of bentonite were observed to undergo a negative electro-optical birefringence at low-voltage fields even in dilute suspensions, a phenomenon not reported earlier. Experimental results do not support a previous theory that the sign of birefringence is reversed because of various particle sizes. Although interaction between particles was found to augment this low-voltage anomalous behavior, we believe that in dilute solutions this behavior is caused by some inherent property of the bentonite micelle. This contention is supported by variation in the relaxation times in negative and positive birefringence regions, thus suggesting orientation on two different axes in the two respective regions."
"Mathematical expressions are derived for the minimum current density necessary to cause stimulated emission in injection lasers. A new type of diffraction loss for a thin light-emitting layer surrounded by light-absorbing material is calculated."
"Stimulated emission was recently observed by Nathan et al.1 in forward-biased GaAs p-n junctions.* Part I of the present Letter describes the fabrication and operation of such diodes so that strong directional effects are obtained. In Part 11 detailed aspects of the directionality above threshold are discussed."
"The narrowing of the emission line from GaAs junctions, demonstrating the presence of stimulated emission, has recently been reported.1 In Part I of this Letter, the fabrication and operation of such diodes in order to obtain strong directional effects is described.2 Pronounced directional effects in suitable structures showing stimulated emission can be related to standing electromagnetic modes consistent with the geometry of the structure. In Part II we will describe briefly some of the directional effects associated with a rectangular GaAs diode which has a length-to-width ratio of ∼ 10:1 in the plane of the junction."
"The original interest int he feasibility of a semiconductor injection laser has been increased by the discovery by S. Mayburg,1 and R. J. Keyes and T. M. Quist2 that GaAs junctions have a high quantum efficiency for radiative recombination."
"The emission observed in GaAs diode injection lasers is believed to be an electronic transition involving acceptor levels.1 In this Letter the paramagnetic resonance absorptions of the neutral acceptors Zn and Cd in GaAs are reported."
"Stimulated emission has been observed recently in GaAs diodes.1 A question of particular interest is the spatial origin of the light. In this Letter it is shown that in high-efficiency units the light clearly comes from the p-region. This is in agreement with the conclusion from fluorescence measurements on homogeneously doped samples of GaAs that an acceptor center is involved in the radiative recombination in p-n junctions.2 Furthermore in a rectangular parallelepiped laser3,4 it is found that the appearance of the emitting region does not change as the current is increased above the threshold for stimulated emission."
"In the recent papers by Nathan et al.,1 and Hall et al.,2 stimulated emission was reported in forward-biased GaAs p-n junctions at 77°K. Directionality effects3,4 in these injection lasers have also been discussed. The theoretical groundwork for these measurements has been discussed by several authors5–7. In this Letter line narrowing and directionality at room temperature in these diodes are reported."
"Stimulated emission of radiation from forward-biased GaAs diodes was recently observed in several laboratories.1,2 The observations reported were made with short pulses (< 20 µsec) and a low duty cycle at 77°K. In this Letter continuous stimulated emission is reported."
"On the basis of the testing and analysis conducted thus far in the study, the following conclusions are drawn: 1) People can modify their writing habits to a significant extent with the expenditure of approximately 30 minutes of training effort. 2) The effects of imposed physical conditions and work pressures, simulating some typical work situations, have not been shown to produce significant deterioration of performance where proper motivation exists. 3) Population factors may be significant in some areas of application, making specialized training methods necessary. In addition, some personnel selection may be required, since approximately 15% of the personnel account for about half of the substitutions errors."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Use of some new planes such as the R-x, R2-x (where R represents in the n-dimensional phase space, the radius vector from the origin to any point on the trajectory described by the system) is suggested for analysis of nonlinear systems of any kind. The stability conditions in these planes are given. For easy understanding of the method, the transformation from the phase plane to the R-x, R2-x planes is brought out for second-order systems. In general, while these planes serve as useful as the phase plane, they have proved to be simpler in determining quickly the general behavior of certain classes of second-order nonlinear systems. A chart and a simple formula are suggested to evaluate time easily from the R-x and R2-x trajectories, respectively. A means of solving higher-order nonlinear systems is also illustrated. Finally, a comparative study of the trajectories near singular points on the phase plane and on the new planes is made."
"Analysis of certain second-order nonlinear systems, not easily amenable to the phase-plane methods, and described by either of the following differential equations xn-2+ f(x)x2n+g(x)xn+h(x)=0 +f(x)x-n+h(x)=0 n≫0 can be effected easily by drawing the entire portrait of trajectories on a new plane; that is, on one of the xnx planes. Simple equations are given to evaluate time from a trajectory on any of these n planes. Poincare's fundamental phase plane x-x is conceived of as the simplest case of the general xnx plane."
"On systems at 600 volts or less, even with modern, adequately rated protective devices, destructive and dangerous arcing faults may occur at low values of current. To prevent or reduce this damage, a new arcing-fault relay system has been developed to supplement phase overcurrent protective devices. Fast-acting arcing-fault relays sense arcing-fault current in conduit, busway, or switchboard enclosures, and cause main or feeder protective devices to interrupt the current quickly."
"A new approach is presented which allows proper spectral measurements of time-nonstationary signals. The power spectrum is defined on the basis of ensemble averages and therefore contains a time variation when the signals are nonstationary. It is shown that a spectrum analyzer can be designed which measures these time-varying spectra in a nearly optimum manner. Design equations are given and practical considerations are discussed."
"A modified least-magnitude method of steepest descent is presented which gives greatly improved convergence to the answer point where the input signal to the process is unit step function. The basis of the modification is a periodic reversal of the sign of the parameter-determining loops, coupled with independent step-wise adjustment of the computed value of each system parameter. Two parameters in a second-order overdamped system are determined simultaneously in less than half the undamped natural period."
"This paper shows that a constant force magnet must have serrated poles. The analysis covers the new shaped gap, and a method of using test data for a magnet with flat poles. Computed values of the serrated gap are given in an illustrative example."
"A formula for the lifting power of the magnet is developed and a method for estimating the magnetic flux below the bottom is given. A method for locating the kernel of the field is given. These help in finding the lifting force. A shorter method for computing saturation curves is given. An analysis of saturation in corners is made."
"In a rectifier system with inductive load circuit the current fluctuations correspond to the time integral of the voltage absorbed by the inductance, while in a circuit with an L-C filter the current ripple is defined by the harmonic composition of the output voltage. Both calculations are rather complex; however, once computed, the results are generally valid. Therefore, this work has been done by the author, and for all operating conditions of interest the results are presented by this paper."
"The paper deals with the design of shell-type d-c motors. The chosen performance parameter is the torquesquared-to-inertia ratio, or power rate, which appears to be proportional to the mass of the motor. A design procedure without any trial-and-error is proposed, and for a given power rate an improvement of weight between 10 and 15 is achievable. This result shows the theoretical feasibility of developing electric actuators for missile applications insofar as dynamic performance and weight are concerned."
"The problem of obtaining an output from a given plant or transducer which is as close as possible to some desired output is considered. The best possible performance that can be attained can be improved through the use of feedback only if the behavior of the transducer is not completely known. An uncertain transducer can be conveniently described by permitting its instantaneous impulse response to be anywhere between prescribed limits. An optimum control system for such a transducer is derived. The response includes an error component which is proportional to the transducer impulse response uncertainty area."
"A theoretical investigation is presented for synthesizing nonlinear controllers for a class of model-reference control systems, each consisting of a timevarying-parameter plant and a fixed-parameter model, with the model one order lower than the plant. The plant and the model may have different forms, provided that their static gains are equal to unity. The controller, upon sensing the difference between the plant response and the model response, adds a proper controlling signal into the plant to make its output approach the model output, even though the plant parameters are unpredictably time-varying over known ranges. Specifically, only the transient responses to step inputs are considered. A controller is synthesized to satisfy a sufficient condition for asymptotic stability of the, null model-plant error, as determined by the use of the direct method of Lyapunov. This is, essentially, a general extension of L. P. Grayson's work to a variety of model-reference control systems. Several sample systems have been simulated on an analog computer for experimental studies. All the test results have shown the controller thus synthesized to be remarkably effective."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Information is presented for designing and predicting the optical-electrical performance of a concentrating solar cell panel. Various factors affecting performance are discussed and evaluated. Basic equations, expressing performance in terms of the design parameters and variables, are developed, and typical performance curves are given for an earthspace application."
"In this paper, a method is discussed for calculating the load saturation curves of the inductor machine. The theory has been verified both by comparison with actual tests under load, and by stationary flux measurements on a machine under simulated load conditions. Both checks showed good agreement between test and calculated values. For these tests a homopolar polyphase inductor-alternator was used. Flux readings under no-load and load conditions were taken by use of search coils and a flux meter. The method used to simulate load conditions is described in this paper."
"Existing data on railroad car plain bearing temperatures are presented and interpreted by means of equivalent thermal circuits. Analyzing the radiation from the car truck, relating it to the characteristics of infrared measuring equipment, and discussing the handling of resulting data-all suggest approaches to more efficient use of wayside hotbox detectors. Effects of some ambient phenomena are presented, and further study of transient temperature conditions following lubrication failure is suggested."
"In this paper, and in a companion paper, a technique for the synthesis of linear nonstationary feedback systems is presented. This paper deals with the approximation problem, i.e., a method is developed whereby a realizable weighting function which produces a desired output when subjected to a polynomial input can be generated. Certain conditions which must be fulfilled by the outputs are also developed."
"In this paper, and a companion paper, a technique for the synthesis of linear nonstationary feedback systems is presented. This paper deals with the synthesis problem, i.e., a method is developed whereby a given weighting function can be synthesized as a feedback system. The problem of synthesizing a nonstationary weighting function as a feedback system when constrained bv a fixed plant is also solved. A differential equation algebra which allows the solution of these problems is developed."
"For a system with N-variable parameters, an N-dimensional parameter space defines a matrix of all possible parameter combinations. By subdividing the parameter space, assigning an auxiliary model to each subspace, and using them to scan, all values in the parameter matrix may be tested rapidly. Logic operations select the proper auxiliary model and initiate adjustments of the system parameters."
"In a recent paper1 the synthesis technique proposed by Guillemin for liniear stationary systems2 was extended for nonstationary feedback systems. It is to be expected, however, that stability problems may arise when applying the method for unstable or nonminimum phase plants, as it does in the time-invariant case. In this investigation it is shown that stability of the system can be assured by imposing constraints in the open-loop differential equation. These constraints are seen to be analogous to those of the time-invariant case."
"The problem of minimum-time angular velocity control of a spinning space body, with a sinigle axis of symmetry, is examined. The control thrusts are assumned bounded. Two-axis, gimballed, and single-axis controls are considered. The optimal controls law is derived for each method. Comparison of the response times indicates that gimballed control is best."
"When synithesizinig a linear system which is described bv a linear ordinary differential equation, it is desirable to have the equatiotn reduced to the lowest possible order since the number of components increases with the order of the equation. In this paper the concept of reducibility of linear differential equations is discussed. Reducibility is defined as the property which allows a differential equation to be redulced to an equivalent lower-order differential equation. A criterion for reducibility and a technique for the reduction of linear differential equations are presented."
"Various specific cases of systems employing a plant with large variations in two parameters together with the existence of additive measurement noise in the output are analyzed. These systems include both two-degree-of-freedom conventional passive systems, and self-adaptive systems. It is shown that the reduction of the effects of the measurment noise justifies the employment of a plant-adaptive system. The requirement of a minimum measurement time is shown to be a fundamental limitation of the self-adjusting system. Procedures are outlined for the estimation of the reduction in measurement noise responses and for the estimation of the minimum measurement time."
"Optimum design of sampleddata systems with quantized control signals is considered. The control signals mi(k) are members of a set [-CL, ... -C2, -C1, 0, C1, C2, ... CL] where ci≫ 0, i= 1, 2,... L, and Ck≫Cj for k≫j. By selecting a proper set [ci], a design compromise between the extremes of proportional control systems and relay control systems is achieved. Dynamic programming techniques are used in carrying out the optimum design. Both minimum summed-square-error systems and minimum -N systems are discussed and illustrated for dynamic performance."
"This paper is concerned with a linear system whose transfer function can be represented by the gain constant, poles, and zeros, the parameters of the system. These parameters vary with time in an unknown manner. A scheme is presented in which these parameters are tracked. The system can be readily realized in terms of simple analogue components. The novel idea presented here lies in the fact that both poles and zeros of the unknown system are adjusted independently by the tracking system. Other similar schemes use fixed poles and adjustable gains."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"The purpose of this paper is to develop a fairly general approach to adaptive control systems which, at the same time, can be mechanized in a reasonable fashion. The development is carried out initially for a simple system with a linear time variant physical process and then extended to the general linear time variant case. Examples are given. A combined learning model and model referenced time variant system is considered next. Finally, the extension of this adaptive concept to control systems which have nonlinear time variant physical processes is presented. Numerous practical implications of the theory are developed in such fields as aerospace vehicle guidance and control, process control, etc. For instance, in re-entry eters of the controlled vehicle vary by two orders of magnitude, while the vehicle dynamic response must remain relatively constant."
"The purpose of this paper is to develop stability analysis results for the type of adaptive control systems described in a companion paper.1 By their very nature, such systems are in general nonautonomous since the inputs may be arbitrary functions of time. The Second Method of Lyapunov supplies the principal tools for this stability analysis, while fairly general techniques are presented for generating the required Lyapunov functions for these systems. Although the analysis is carried out in detail for certain specific types of inputs, it is applicable to other types as well."
"Most signals used for feedback compensation may be treated mathematically as derivatives of the output signal. The gain associated with each derivative signal alters one or more coefficients of the characteristic equation of the closed-loop system, and may also affect the steady-state accuracy. The Routh test may be used in many simple cases to determine limiting values of the gains. In more complex cases manipulation of the characteristic equation provides a root locus assisting in design of compensation."
"The basic Mitrovic equations are extended to apply to variations in any chosen coefficients of the characteristic equation, thus permitting analysis of the effect of adjusting several derivative signals. Simple relationships are developed to analyze the possibility of stabilizing fourth-, fifth-, and sixth-order systems with selected feedback signals. Design procedures are given, which control the damping and frequency of the dominant roots (within available limits) by simultaneous adjustment of two derivative signals."
"This paper describes a 440/762-volt combination motor starter equipped with 600-volt components. It provides a report on the service obtained with 600-volt class equipment on a 762-volt grounded system and a discussion on necessary motor protective features."
"A multivariable adaptive control technique is presented which is aimed at the class of systems where the main control function is the following of a continuously varying desired output state with transients being of lesser importance. Adaptation is by identification feedback with the momentary control action being open loop."
"In automatic control and other branches of engineering it is frequently necessary to find the roots of an algebraic equation. One of the authors has presented iteration methods for solving for both real and complex roots by right-to-left synthetic division. These methods are convergent for many, but not all, classes of roots. This paper presents a study of the convergence of the methods and extends the methods to cover the regions of nonconvergence. In addition, an improved array is presented for checking the Routh-Hurwitz stability criterion. The use of the methods in analysis and design of automatic control systems is demonstrated by numerical examples."
"This paper presents a method for evaluating the performance capabilities of a thermoelectric generator. The fundamental equations given by Ioffe and others have been modified to include the effective figure-of-merit of an array of thermocouples in place of the figure-of-merit of the thermoelectric materials. Practical factors such as electrode and contact resistance have been considered. Performance calculations for a typical generator show that these factors have a significant influence on the performance of a lightweight generator."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"This report was prepared by the AIEE System Co-ordination and Protection Subcommittee to document and make more available literature concerning system co-ordination and protection. The information has been assembled primarily for those interested in the design and operation of power systems as applied in industrial plants and commercial buildings. The bibliography is conveniently divided into five parts: (1) Published Books, (2) AlEE Transactions Papers, (3) AIEE Conference Papers or District Papers, (4) Magazine Articles, and (5) Manufacturers' Bulletins."
"In adaptive control a test signal may be used to identify the parameters of the system to be controlled. A test signal disturbs the system. Therefore it is desirable to eliminate the effects of this signal as soon as the identification has been completed. After identification a quenching signal may be introduced to eliminate the system response to the test signal. The systems treated here are described by linear differential equations with slowly varying coefficients. The nature of the quenching signal depends on whether or not it is bounded or unbounded. The unbounded quenching signal is a linear combination of a properly weighted impulse and derivatives of an impulse. The weights are determined by the initial conditions on the system at the instant of quenching, and the system parameters. Unbounded quenching is considered to be optimum if the response to the test signal is eliminated with minimum integral squared error. The bounded quenching signal is obtained by scheduling the lengths of time that its value is either at the upper or lower bound. The quenching signal is determined by the test signal and the system to be controlled. Therefore, as soon as the system is identified, quenching can be accomplished by scheduling regardless of the other disturbances to which the system is subject. The method applies to the quenching of system response whether or not adaptive control is involved."
"The control u(t), |u(t)| ≤1, is determined for the control of a linear plant G(s) from an initial state to a terminal state such that the fuel F = ∫otf |u(t)|dt is minimum. The maximum principle is used to prove that the optimal u(t) is necessarily piecewise constant and that u(t) = + 1, 0, or -1. The optimal feedback control function is derived for the plants G(s) = 1/s2 and G(s)= 1/(s+1)(s+2) using the concept of the iso-fuel curves. The phase plane is divided into three regions of operation such that to each region corresponds a value for the control u(t)."
"Multivariable control systems are analyzed by the method of linear transformations. The data obtained are used for the synthesis of the control systems as based on root-loci techniques. The various specifications of the system are analyzed and a design procedure is outlined. Such an approach ensures that the system not only meets specifications but also maintains the required performance in the presence of interaction, plant parameter variations, and even the effects of piece-wise linearities in the plant."
"In high-speed printing press practice the splicing of an expiring roll of paper to a replacement roll is one of the most delicate operations. Splicing of the web must be performed at all running speeds of the press, leaving the ``butt'' with only a minimum of paper remaining. The success depends to a great extent on accurate timing of the start of the operation as well as the actual splicing. Manual starting and completion of a splice is subject to error of judgment of the operator and is uneconomical. This paper describes an automatic system in which the increase of rotational speed of the roll delivering paper at a constant linear speed is monitored by an electric tachometer. The tachometer accurately gages the diminishing roll diameter and produces the necessary signals for the operation, without contacting the roll with any mechanical device which could cause the web to break or mar the paper surface."
"This paper is concerned with a consideration of the characteristics of various processes for which automatic optimizing might be employed. An appraisal is given as to the effect of these characteristics on the type of strategies or control logic to be employed. Further, an over-all description of a digital computer program is included which was developed and used to obtain quantitative results in this study. A number of strategies which were investigated in detail are then reviewed. The effect of such factors as constraints, measurement noise, and quantization are mentioned. Finally, the effects of noise are briefly examined, techniques to modify the strategies are discussed, and the results of one experiment described."
"In this paper a graphical method is developed for determining the transfer function coefficients of a systems from given frequency-response data. The theory is an extension of the Wiener-Lee lattice network synthesis technique. This new procedure not only greatly simplifies the Wiener-Lee method, but has the advantage of being easily programmed on a digital computer."
"The fact that certain nonlinear devices have zero cross-correlation between input and output for zero-mean Gaussian inputs is used as the basis of a technique for generating noncorrelated signals from a single random source. It is shown, theoretically, that at least four noncorrelated signals can be obtained in this way. The theory is checked by experiment and it is concluded that the technique will likely have value in the testing of multivariable processes."
"For the purpose of reducing mechanical shocks caused by the sudden increase of torque, and to avoid high current transients as a result of the interruption of supply in the conventional stardelta switching, an alternative starting process is presented here. It is proposed to start the motor on the unbalanced-delta connection in which a resistance is inserted in one of the lines feeding its delta-connected stator. When the running speed has been reached, the resistance is bridged to permit normal balanced running. It is also proposed to use the unbalanced-delta connection as an intermediate step in star-delta switching. In this respect, the once suggested open-delta connection is proved unsuitable for this purpose."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper is concerned with the synthesis of computer control systems by modern techniques. In this approach, the dynamics of the process is characterized by state variables and transition equations, and the optimum design of the system is carried out by use of the dynamic programming theory. It is demonstrated that the modern approach to the design of digital control systems is capable of handling a wider variety of problems and of producing more realistic results than conventional design approaches. This paper discusses such topics as performance indices, optimum control law, constraints at the output, and optimum estimation. The synthesis procedure is illustrated by an example."
"A new general DIDF (dual input describing function) has been analytically derived for single-valued nonlinearities subjected to two arbitrary noncommensurate sine waves. The development corroborates a previous approximate development for two sine waves widely separated in frequency. The new DIDF is applied to the problem of the stability of nonlinear systems subjected to sinusoidal forcing. It is shown that the conventional DF (describing function) cannot be used for nonautonomous systems without additional safeguards. After it has been shown by the DIDF that no auto-oscillations exist for given input conditions it is proper to employ the conventional DF in any of the methods suggested in the literature to obtain the closed-loop frequency response under those conditions."
"The synthesis of controllers, optimum in the sense of Min∫u2(t)dt, u(t) u the control function, and Subject to the constraint T = ∫0Tu2(t)dt is given for a plant with constant coefficients and distinct characteristic roots. Several variations in the synthesis are considered if the plant has numerator dynamics. The computation involves solving a single transcendental equation for the response time T. Results for several particular plants are given, and these are fimilar to time optimal control."
"Inherent advantages of static adjustable-frequency drives over conventional drives are presented. The two basic approaches to static systems, the inverter and the cycloconverter, are discussed in general terms. A nontechnical explanation of the operation of the two types is introduced. Characteristics and requirements of static drives are outlined. Some miscellaneous considerations that might be of importance to prospective users are also discussed."
"In this paper the partitioning technique is applied to analyze a certain class of nonlinear physical systems whose dynamic behavior can be represented by a nonlinear differential equation having some linear time-varying terms, some nonlinear terms, and a forcing function. Also included here will be some applications to specific nonlinear differential equations. It was found that by placing certain restrictions on the system equations, a unique solution could be obtained which belongs to an L2 space. See Appendix I for an explanation of the L2 space. This solution is given as the sequence of Pickard's iterates, each of which is also an L2 function. In this paper, the well-known mean square error criterion is applied to find the number of iterates necessary to approximate the solution of this class of nonlinear equations."
"Certain networks capable of producing transfer functions with complex zeros (or complex poles) are presented. The equations for the s-plane loci of the complex singularities are developed and are equations of circles. Working equations are tabulated as an aid to design. Using these in conjunction with Carpenter's graphical construction, the network can be designed so that the roots of the compensated system lie at a specified location for a specified gain."
"A multivariable control system in which the parameters of the plant transfer function matrix are unknown functions of time is described in this paper. It is a sequel to a previous one1 dealing with a single variable control system. A scheme is presented here in which the parameters of the plant transfer function are tracked and the controller transfer function matrix is adjusted in such a way as to keep the overall system optimized. The system may be realized in terms of ordinary analog computer elements. Information is given in a form which may be readily inserted into a controller for realization of a general type of adaptive control system."
"One table herein lists induction overcurrent relays, available from the various manufacturers, along with equivalent time versus current characteristics. Another table gives relay types and current ranges suitable for phase and ground protection of 12 of the most commonly encountered industrial plant distribution and motor circuits. Recommendations result from detailed considerations of a hypothetical industrial power system. Use of these tables can be instrumental in good relay co-ordination and protection in the majority of applications when time does not permit a detailed study."
"A contactor servomechanism is analyzed and constructed. The system is compensated by using positive hysteresis characteristics. It is shown that stability and dynamic, or transient, response are greatly improved by compensation in this manner. From an analytical study, it is shown that this type of compensation can achieve stability in cases where normal phase-lead compensation might fail. As a practical application of positive hysteresis compensation, a laboratory model is constructed and tested. The experimental results verify the analytical study."
"It is possible in a thermoelectric cooling device to obtain significantly reduced cold-junction temperatures, compared to the steady-state values, by utilizing transient conditions. This effect is only temporary, and it might find applications where the aim is to reach the coldest possible temperature with minimum equipment in the shortest time, without need to maintain that temperature once it is reached. A thermoelectric cooling device was built to demonstrate the practicality of the transient effect."
"Limitations of switching circuits for multispeed synchro systems have prompted a systematic investigation of the switching problem. A basic circuit, repeated for each synchro, was designed to satisfy the requirements. The resulting network is a passive unit which, by use of diodes and resistors, provides for inherently fast and reliable switching and, furthermore, eliminates all errors except those which are introduced through the final synchro."
"Servomechanism errors in a 2-dimensional contouring system are analyzed to determine the position error of a tool center negotiating a corner formed by two straight lines. The results establish the feed rate which will permit a specified tolerance on path error to be met. Transient response intormation from analog computer tests is summarized in nomographic form to permit convenient consideration of the maximum tool center path error during the design of the servomechanisms."
"The optimum synthesis of multivariable control systems with generalized quadratic error criterion is solved by using time method of steepest descent in the Hilbert space. Apart from the conventional minimization techniques, this approach works directly on the functional of the error criterion itself so that the optimal solution can be determined through sucessive approximations. Since this solution can be obtained at high speed and with high accuracy by using a digital computer, this method is particularly useful in solving the actuation problem of adaptive control systems."
"This paper covers the application and tests on a silicon power-rectifier equipped locomotive for the Pennsylvania Railroad. Both the basic design of the locomotive and the application of silicon power-rectifier equipment to transportation equipment was proved previously. Performance of the locomotive to date has been satisfactory."
"A practical method of applyring 3-phase 60-cycle power directly to a rapid-transit system is described. An unconventional distribution system is used to overcome the high impedance of the magnetic third rail. The problem of phase-unbalance, sectionalizinlg, controlled-rectifier traction, motor control, current spikes, and regenerative braking are presented with practical solutions for each of these problems. A very rough estimate of savings in first cost and annual energy consumption are tabulated."
"Railroads, along with most other industries, have found in recent years an ever-increasing number of applications where static components can replace the long-standing electromagnetic, pneumatic and mechanical devices. This paper discusses briefly a few such applications, pointing out some features which static components can offer as compared with conventional devices. Details concerning a new static notching system used in type SCM (simplified cam magnetic) control for rapid-transit car propulsion emphasizes recently developed advantages to be obtained with static components."
"Considerable engineering effort is being used today to provide automation in various forms to the railroad industry. It is well, therefore, to consider some basic problems which would be encountered should it be desired to automate a freight train. This paper will be confined to the locomotive and train controls only, with the realization that problems associated with wayside equipment form still another category. Most of the data used herein are from train automation feasibility tests run near London, Ontario, Canada, in the summer of 1960, as a joint effort of the Air Brake Division of the Westinghouse Air Brake Company, The Canadian National Railway, General Motors Diesel, Ltd., and the General Railway Signal Company."
"Such design parameters as current, voltage, temperature, and intensity dependency for silicon solar cells are listed. Their relationship to the basic photovoltaic theory is given, and methods for establishing the parameters are described. Other subjects covered are: (1) the solar cell physical characteristics and their interaction with mounting substrate characteristics; (2) typical solar cell panel configuration; (3) the thermal balance problem and typical thermal characteristics such as emissivity and absorptivity; and (4) the ``state of the art'' for power and weight figure-of-merit for space power conversion."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The requirement for new and better connecting techniques in the assembly of telephone apparatus has promoted increased use of welding. A low-voltage percussion welding process has been developed to a stage of reliability and quality which makes its utilization attractive for selected applications. The process is a direct capacitor discharge arc method in which the weld energy is closely controlled by the capacity included in the welding circuit, the voltage to which the capacitors are charged, and the duration of the arc as regulated by the mechanical parameters of the welding device. The low charging voltage is inherently safe to personnel and permits welding both electromechanical and most semiconductor devices without danger of electrical damage. In addition, the short weld time interval of 200-300 microseconds limits heat transfer to such a minute value that the process is particularly attractive for connecting heat sensitive devices. The process currently is applied to weld leads to resistor caps, weld leads to dry reed switches, weld capacitors and resistors to fabricated network circuit boards."
"Numerical control originated with the employment of digital computer programs for the computation of machining points, and feedback control systems for automatically responding to the numerical commands. The subsequent application of automatic programming has yielded symbolic control, which promises revolutionary changes in manufacturing. New forms of automatic tools permeating all levels of manufacturing are envisioned. These will compel significant changes in manufacturing operation, organization, and philosophy."
"Equipment is presently being manufactured which permits the TWX subscriber to place his calls directly by dialing into the DDD telephone network. This equipment comprises electronic and electromechanical devices, combined in a simple package for installation at the subscriber's premises. The Data Set, with its associated controlling Subset, provides a number of operating features which make for convenience, speed, and ease of operation, and should assure reliable operation for a great many years."
"As a high-speed incrementer, the printed circuit motor, while less accurate than a detented incrementer, provides unusual flexibility and reliability with relatively simple input controls. This paper presents an analysis of printed circuit motor response to a unit step of input voltage for incrementing purely inertial and dissipative loads. Incrementing is stable and quite accurate if sufficient friction damping is provided. Input power requirements can be accurately predicted in terms of motor and load parameters, increment displacement, and increment time. Average power during an increment varies approximately as J2, θ2, and (1/T)4. Armature heating dictates maximum input power and incrementing rate. With external cooling and 120 watts average input power, a combined load of 0.009 oz-in-sec2 moment of inertia, 10.8 oz-in/100 rpm eddy current damping, and 20 oz-in friction damping was incremented at a continuous rate of 150 steps/sec for 5° increments with ±6 per cent accuracy."
"As part of a program for the production of accurate scales and grids it became necessary to develop a device which could locate the lines on such a scale or grid with a precision better than one microinch. The system described in this paper accomplishes this result by forming an image of the line with polarized light whose angle of polarization varies with the position of the line. The angle is zero on the optic axis and the rotation depends on both the sense and amount of the line displacement from that axis. The polarization of the light is modulated with a Faraday modulator. The combination of position sensitive polarization and Faraday modulation produces a signal whose phase depends on the sense and whose amplitude depends on the amount of displacement of the line image from the optic axis. Using this system sensitivities of one microampere per microinch displacement can be achieved with unit magnification."
"During the past ten years much effort has been expended on the development of fiber optic devices. Some of the more basic devices are used simply for transmitting light to remote areas. These are generally referred to as \"light pipes.\" Other fiber optic devices are capable of transmitting complete coherent images through rigid or flexible fiber bundles from one area to another."
"Thermoplastic films' unique combination of thermal, electrical, and optical properties results in a versatile information storage medium which finds both digital and analog applications. As a digital storage medium, thermoplastic is best suited as a file memory where large capacity and rapid read access is a necessity. Reading and writing rates are completely independent. The fabrication of either sequential or random access devices using tapes or plates is possible. These couple high density capability with electron beam agility to provide large capacity storage and outstanding performance with regards to data transfer rates and read access. The recording medium consists of a substrate for mechanical carriage, a conductive film for heat developing, and the thermoplastic film. The recording process consists of writing line charges with a data-modulated electron beam and then developing with heat. The surface grooves which are formed can be read optically with a flying spot scanner. The position feedback Information inherent in the recorded data allows tracking along a single groove regardless of density."
"The Hall effect can be employed to obtain an output proportional to the product of the current through the element and the field cutting through it. A qualitative explanation aids in the visualization of the phenomena. There are several semiconductor materials that may be selected to emphasize a particular characteristic such as power transfer, temperature stability, etc. Maximum efficiency and improvement of dynamic range can be realized if care is taken in the assembly of the element-magnet structure and appropriate compensation techniques are employed. Since the two inputs are current and flux density and these may result from a variety of sources, the application becomes multitudinous. This creates an entirely new family of transducers that in many cases are improved in size, response and cost over conventional devices. The following applications are described: wattmeter, varmeter, gaussmeter, clip-on ammeter, resolvers and synchros, and magnetic tape readers."
"Strong, short-duration magnetic fields may be used for direct forming of metal parts. Since the energy for forming is imparted to the workpiece solely through the magnetic field, many unusual capabilities and applications exist for the process."
"This 9-Gc system used a microwave signal reflected from the surface of a rotating roll of paper or plastic film to detect irregularities in the outer layers of the rolled material. The microwave package comprised a klystron oscillator, silicon dector crystal, and flared wave-guide horn antenna. A standard laboratory oscilloscope was used as the ``receiver'' and display system. Examples of materials tested were: kraft paper, cellophane, polypropylene and polyethylene film. The cellulosic materials absorbed more energy and gave weaker reflections than the polyolefins. The minimum detectable surface ``ripples'' were 0.010 inch high. A simple radar of this sort is useful for the noncontacting monitoring of moving surfaces. It has been used to detect surface motion through heavy protective windows."
"Magnetohydrodynamic power generation has been presented as limited in application to large generating stations but offering the promise of reduced power cost to be achieved through heat rate improvement. The potential for industrial application will be broadened if generators can be made attractive in smaller ratings, if generating cost can be reduced, and if the generator can be made lighter and more compact. The scaling considerations which make large output more favorable will be reviewed and the possibility of devising attractive MHD generators in smaller ratings will be explored. Improved heat rate is achieved by the combination of an open-cycle regenerative MHD generator with a waste heat steam cycle; however, cost studies of such combined cycles have shown that high capital costs may prevent the expected improvement in the cost of power generated. This cost is decreased by extracting a larger portion of available heat in the MHD converter relative to that extracted in the steam cycle. The effect on power cost of increasing generator inlet temperature without a corresponding increase in exit temperature will be examined. MHD generator size affects power cost both through wall heat loss and as a consequence of magnet capital cost. The effect of magnetic field strength upon generator power density and cost will be discussed and the potential benefit of the superconducting electromagnet will be established."
"The name ``solions'' comes from ``ions in solution,'' and it classifies a number of electrochemical devices, including many varieties of pressure transducers, integrators, and electro-osmotic transducers. Several types are now available to the commercial market as off-the-shelf items. Most of the interest has centered around the solion integrator types for integrating noise-exposure meters, integrating electrical variables as part of laboratory instruments, gas chromatographs, for obtaining integrals of generated functions, and in simple resistive circuits to obtain very stable low frequency to dc amplification. General characteristics of the solion integrator types will be presented together with some general characteristics of several end products. The low stand-by power requirements and certain unique characteristics of the solion transducer types have been of greater interest to the military than to industrial companies so far. They can be used commercially in compact vibration meters, sensitive alarm systems, and ``go, no-go'' type of service in place of electrical contacts. Characteristics and application notes will be presented on this class of solions also."
"The use of electrolysis as a metalworking tool attracts industrial attention more and more because of the ability to remove metal at high speed without regard to the toughness or hardness of the metal, without metallurgical damage, without heat, and without consuming the shaped electrodes or tools which are used to impart the desired form into the work material. Evidence shows that superatmospheric pressures increase the speed and improve the results of the process."
"A technique for the practical utilization of solar energy on a continuous basis to provide bulk power is described. The output of solar energy converters is used to produce hydrogen by pressure electrolysis of water. The energy stored in the hydrogen can be efficiently transformed into electrical energy by the use of hydrogen-oxygen fuel cells."
"The current intensive effort on fuel cell research and development is justified by the potential uses and advantages. Many industrial laboratories are investigating some form of mobile power in which high efficiency, low manufacturing cost, and low maintenance are the most important factors. Another potential large application for fuel cells and the one that is receiving the most attention at this time is in aerospace vehicles where this form of power satisfies many special needs."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Members of PTGBTR will note with sadness the untimely death of Ricardo Muniz on Saturday, November 17, 1962, in Montefiore Hospital, New York, New York. At the age of 52, he had retired three months previously as the Director of Engineering and Co-ordinator of Manufacturing of the Magnavox Company of Fort Wayne, Indiana. His prior executive positions included responsibility as general manager of Westinghouse Radio-TV Division in Canada and in Metuchen, New Jersey; he pioneered in TV production immediately after World War II as general manager at A.B. Dumont Laboratories, following research and development work in TV at his Munston firm, and work on direction-finding equipment during the war. Mr. Muniz was a Senior Member ('49) of the I.R.E., and of the Administrative Committee of the PTGBTR. The many loyal friendships he made are numbered in both the academic and industrial worlds. He served as a teacher at the Brooklyn Technical High School, and as an assistant Director of what is now the New York City Community College. In addition to writing articles in Radio-Electronics and other magazines, he inspired and assisted substantially with material help for the text on \"Electronic Instrumentation\" to be published in April, 1963, by Prentice-Hall. The whole course of his varied productive activities was marked by his impressive ability to make and keep devoted friends. Surviving are his widow, the former Lydia Andreozzi, two sons, Richard and Donald, and three grandchildren."
"On June 17 and 18, 1963, the fourth Chicago Spring Conference will be held at the O'Hare Inn. For a segment of the electronics industry, this has become the year's most important technical meeting. This is our own Conference and, through it, we can speak to each other and, through our combined strength, be heard by outsiders. It is large enough to attract most of our important personalities and to provide a full, well-rounded program. It is small enough to provide fellowship, the very important opportunity to get to know . . . as people . . . the men in other companies with whom one does business. It provides for the young Engineer the important opportunity to prepare a paper and to have the immense satisfaction of presenting it to his contemporaries. This is not the only conference in which the PTGBTR participates, but it has become the most important one to us. Attending it will bring personal enjoyment and technical enrichment but, equally important, by helping to make it a success you will enhance the position our group holds both in the Engineering profession and in society as a whole."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Educational television in almost all of its forms is used successfully at Purdue University. Two particular courses are described, one involving taped lectures to small classes of electrical engineering sophomores, and the other enabling two professors and two graduate classes to meet simultaneously at locations 100 miles apart. Although the use of television has improved many aspects of these courses, limitations in the receivers prevent optimum performance. The video and audio quality of the receivers is discussed, and suggestions are made for an improved unit. Disadvantages in the external design of the receivers are in-d icated, and the current status of talk-back systems is described."
"The methods available for controlling the gain of transistor bandpass amplifiers are reviewed and their limitations discussed. The r-f parameters of a recently developed transistor are given and a design method applicable to moderate percentage bandwidth amplifiers is developed. A TV tuner and i-f amplifier is used as an example and its response and distortion vs age is shown."
"The development and design of the first continuously tuned production UHF converter to employ a silicon transistor oscillator is described. Discussed are the factors which contribute to a six to one reduction in volume, a 500 uv/m maximum radiation level, and lowered cost. The circuit is briefly described and performance curves are presented."
"The KIMCODE System (KImble Method for Controlled DEvacuations) has introduced the television tube industry to a new concept. This system builds integral safety into the television tube itself and thus eliminates the need for a protective shield of glass or plastic. This is accomplished by reinforcing television glass envelopes with steel bands, glass fiber cloths, and plastic resins. This new approach offers many advantages, including lower weight and new styling possibilities. A description of construction is presented, along with performance results, Underwriters' Laboratories' requirements, means of devacuation, and application features."
"A transistorized crystal I.F. stage featuring variable bandwidth with constant midband amplitude has been developed. No mechanical tracking devices or mechanical bandwidth controls are employed: the constant amplitude feature is electronic, while the bandwidth is proportional to a D.C. control voltage. At narrow bandwidth the response curve is Gaussian with relatively steep skirts; as the bandwidth nears its maximum value the top of the curve first flattens, then exhibits a double peak at either side of midband frequency. The bandwidth of the 100KC stage actually constructed varied from 8 to 1400 cycles at the 3 DB points as the control voltage varied from 0 to 3 volts. The circuit exhibited a midband amplitude variation of less than 3% over the entire bandwidth range. Circuit operation has been analyzed both qualitatively and theoretically, and empirical results are given."
"An examination of the pertinent characteristics of headphones is followed by a discussion of the influence of the electromechanical parameters of mounted piezoelectric elements. A comparison of these parameters for Rochelle salt and PZT∗ ceramic elements reveals a two to one difference in the energy conversion capabilities of the two materials. The increased activity of Rochelle salt is present for all modes of operation but the difference is very slight for longitudinal and shear expander modes. This is not so for flexure type elements for which the difference is as quoted above«, Despite this advantage, there are some environmental limitations associated with this material. Thus, for some applications, the use of piezoelectric ceramics as the active element in such transducers is recommended. The net result of the difference in electromechanical coupling (energy conversion capability) in the two materials is a compromise in the characteristics of the modified headphone. The important performance characteristics of any headphone include (a) sensitivity, (b) frequency response, and (c) impedance level. Piezoelectric audio transducers in general are characterized as high impedance devices. A significant reduction in impedance does little to change this classification. Consequently, the design objective was to limit the compromise to a change in impedance only. Selection of a PZT ceramic element of suitable dimensions to yield the required sensitivity is facilitated by the use of equivalent circuit techniques. At low frequencies, the electroacoustical circuit representation of the piezoelectric headphone takes on a simple form. Most of the components of this circuit are known, but the dimensions of the mounted element are taken as variable. A solution of the pressure sensitivity of the headphone as a function of element dimensions is readily obtained. Use of the resultant equation is facilitated by plotting design curves. Pressure response measurements in accordance with existing techniques1 yield data in good agreement with results predicted by the aforementioned analysis. The important characteristics include a sensitivity of 8 μbars/volt flat within ±3 db from 50 cps to 8 kc. The only significant change in performance between the crystal and ceramic phones is as anticipated; namely, a reduction in impedance from 90, 000 ohms to approximately 15,000 ohms at 1 kc."
"Lateral tracking-angle errors are easily controlled in stereodisk systems and present no serious problems. Vertical tracking-angle errors are much less easily controlled and frequently are the cause of serious harmonic and inter-modulation distortion in playback. The mechanisms producing vertical tracking-angle distortion are outlined. Among other things it is shown that IM products due to frequency-modulation effects in a multi-component signal are particularly serious. It is shown, also, that the effective tilt angle in a recorder while cutting a groove may be considerably different from the nominal tilt angle determined by the internal geometrical configuration of the cutter. This difference can be attributed to bending of the recording stylus as a result of the drag force of the record material being removed from the groove. With present understanding it should be possible to reduce the distortion due to vertical-tracking-angle errors to negligibly-low values in stereodisk systems."
"Discrete-track recording is a magnetic-recording method which employs a single-gap head and a discrete-track medium to increase the head-repositioning tolerance in saturation digital recording. A head with a conventional ring structure may be used. The recording medium consists of discrete magnetic tracks separated by nonmagnetic lands. Width of the magnetic tracks depends largely on the desired track density and maximum tolerable head-repositioning error. Test results indicate excellent track performance; consequently, satisfactory and reliable operation can be expected under actual machine conditions. Major advantages of discrete-track recording are economy, reliability, and increased head-repositioning tolerances."
"Present day video tape uses high speed mechanical scanning, with rapid wear of tape and heads. Electron beam scanning is proposed to eliminate mechanical problems and to allow the use of low cost tape. Development work has been conducted on a recording tube using a high density sheet beam to energize a simplified 500 element magnetic head. For playback a tube was built with a line of fine high-permeability wires sealed into the envelope in the beam path. Early television systems depended on mechanical scanners such as the Nipkow disc to convert a picture into a video signal and vice versa. Electronic scanning became perfected before television was commercialized. Whether mechanical scanning could have had a similar measure of success in the absence of cathode ray tubes, is a subject for interesting debate. One can point out that where electronic means were not available, mechanical devices as for example piston driven automobiles have become popular; even though at the outset one might have argued that they were too complicated, noisy and clumsy, and therefore would have to wait for jet or ion propulsion. In the late 1940's, when the problem of recording video came up, one should have looked at the history of television itself and noted that mechanical scanning tried for a half-century but television didn't become practical until electronic methods were developed. Therefore experience as well as common sense indicated that at this advanced state of technology a modern approach to recording should be electronic. As proved by later events, experience and common sense are not always accurate. Ten years afterward video recording was in extensive use, but the method was high speed mechanical scanning. In spite of its success, everyone in the industry has felt that there ought to be a more refined way. In the long run, mechanical scanning may yet give way to the \"common sense\" approach."
"There has been some question in the past as to whether fα or fT should be used as the frequency criterion in determining transistor high frequency noise figure. This report is based on the following equation for noise figure as derived by Nielsen:1 $F = 1 + {r_{b}^{\\prime} \\over r_{g}} + {r_{e} \\over 2r_{g}} + {{({r}_g+{r}_{b}^{\\prime} + {r}_e)^2} \\over {2r_{e}\\, r_g \\, \\beta_o}} \\left [1 + {(f/f_a)^2 \\over 1-\\alpha_o}\\right]. \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ Results show rather conclusively that fα should be used and not fT, for the frequency range from approximately 40 to 300 mc. These results apply specifically to the diffused base 2N1742 transistor. Conclusions have been drawn by comparing (1) the degree to which theoretical fα-noise figure correlates with measured noise figure to (2) the degree to which theoretical fT-noise figure correlates with measured noise figure"
"This report presents the results of a study of transistor mixer operation at high frequencies. A general analysis of mixer operation is developed based on the assumption that any device in which mixing occurs can be represented by a linear network with time varying components. From this analysis a general mixer equivalent circuit is developed. This may be applied in the transistor mixer case by proper modification of the Giacolletto equivalent circuit. In the theoretical analysis it is assumed that collector current can be represented by a square wave switched at the local oscillator frequency. In actual practice IC does not approach a square wave sufficiently for good agreement with experimental results. A constant correction factor is experimentally determined which when included in the equation allows calculation of conversion gains that agree to within 5% to 10% of those measured."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The PTGBTR is now a part of the largest Engineering society in the world. It is easy to get lost in an organization of 160,000 members and regard our organization as an unimportant segment of the vast, confusing complex that is electronics today. There is danger of losing our identity as a commercial and technical group in this situation. The Professional Group system has been successful in reducing this complex situation to manageable segments. There is no reason why we cannot have the same easy, informal interchange in our group that was characteristic of the early IRE meetings If you know someone who is a part of our industry and who is not a member of the PTGBTR, urge him to fill out the application below, show him the editorial on page 5 and make him an active, participating member of PTGBTR. By the way, the Administrative Committee is interested in receiving any suggestions on how we can better serve the membership I hope to see you at the Chicago Spring Conference."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Thank you, John, and good afternoon gentlemen. It is a real pleasure to appear before your group today and to have the opportunity of chatting with you about the great electronics industry, and more specifically about some of the areas offering challenges to management and its vital engineering arm."
"The effect of the recent FCC order permitting the reduction of sound/picture carrier power ratio from 50% to 10% for UHF on the sound-channel performance of intercarrier sound television receivers is evaluated. The sound channel performance of intercarrier sound television receivers is investigated analytically and experimentally. It is shown that in a perfect intercarrier sound receiver the ultimate signal-to-noise ratio at maximum white level (12.5% of sync level) for 10% sound power is 36 db for 30% modulation when the picture signal-to-noise ratio (TASO definition) is 20 db. At lower input signal levels, the performance falls off more rapidly than the reduction in input level because of intermodulation of noise, video, and synchronizing components in the second detector. It appears doubtful that the sound power can be reduced to 10% without degrading the performance of a significant percentage of receivers now being used to receive fringe signals. In any case it is desirable that a single standard of sound-to-picture carrier ratio be established for VHF and UHF. Under the present standards a receiver must be capable of providing both freedom from beat interference and good sound performance for a transmitted power ratio ranging from 70% to 10%, exclusive of the additional variations introduced by propagation and environmental factors."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The present day UHF tuner generally consists of a vacuum tube oscillator, 1N82A silicon diode mixer, and double tuned r-f preselector. Historical developments leading to the present design are discussed, including alternate oscillator and preselector designs. New tubes and transistors, available as UHF oscillators, are covered. Two new UHF tuners using transistor oscillators are presented. European UHF tuner designs using r-f amplifier and self-oscillating mixer are described and compared to U.S. types."
"The forthcoming legal requirement that all television receivers must be able to receive transmissions on any channels from 2 through 83 has posed numerous problems for receiver manufacturers."
"With the evolution of television receivers toward a more compact size, and the legal requirement of 82 channel reception after April 1964, a substantially smaller, high performance UHF tuner is deemed necessary. A novel design tuner which fulfills these needs is presented. Mechanical and electrical design features are described and related to the resultant performance characteristics."
"The purpose of this report is to analyze some of the design and performance problems associated with f-m tuners and show how these problems may be minimized or eliminated by using the new Texas Instruments TI-390 series germanium epitaxial mesa transistor. The problems to be presented and discussed will include noise performance, spurious responses, and AGC. The relationship of transistor parameter specifications to these problems will be analyzed."
"The FM Stereo Broadcast System as adopted by the FCC two years ago included the accommodation for the transmission of an SCA background channel service on the RF carrier along with the two stereo channels. This simultaneous transmission of a third channel with the stereo program can result in an inter-modulation interference in improperly designed or aligned stereo FM receivers. In evaluating SCA interference, this paper shall consider: 1. The nature of SCA interference; 2. Possible sources of the interference in a stereo FM receiver; 3. Results of the testing of a cross-section of the stereo FM receiver market; and 4. Methods of minimizing the interference."
"This paper discusses the design philosophy of narrow bandwidth amplifiers using high frequency transistors and coupling transformers between stages. Here is a single step-by-step method for designing tuned IF amplifiers. Part I and Part II will consider the low frequency case (fIF-fT/100) for single and double tuned respectively. The method considers gain, stability, bandwidth, and large signal handling ability."
"The design of an all-transistor, line-operated, black-and-white television receiver was undertaken to determine the major device problem areas. The design was based on the stringent 114-degree deflection requirements as applied to the large-volume 19-inch and 23-inch receivers. Transistor television will not become a large-volume reality until the price, as well as the performance, is comparable with that of existing tube-type receivers. Consequently, efforts were directed to the development of potentially low-cost devices and circuits without appreciable compromise in performance. This paper describes (1) the design of the receiver, (2) some new transistor types which were developed for specific difficult functions, and (3) the receiver performance. Emphasis is on line operation only. The major technical problem areas encountered in the receiver were in the deflection, video, and rf stages. The final receiver contains 23 transistors, 14 diodes, and a high-voltage rectifier. Prior to and during the design of the television receiver, two new families of transistors were developed for specific functions in the receiver. These devices, which are still in the developmental stage, are identified by TA numbers in the paper. The first of these families, a germanium dot-diffused mesa rf transistor having low feedback capacitance, is used in the tuner and in the picture and sound if-amplifier stages. The second, a high-voltage diffused-collector graded-base power transistor, is used in the horizontal-driver and output, the vertical-output, and the audio-output stages."
"Widespread acceptance of all-transistor television receivers still requires technical advances in many areas, including the important ones of cost and reliability. A market application as significant as television demands reasonable cost along with excellent performance. This paper discusses recent advances in the development of economical high-energy television-deflection circuits for both vertical and horizontal scanning. Problems pertinent to over-all scanning systems are discussed from a generalized viewpoint. The specific application of newly developed, potentially low-cost RCA power transistors designed for the deflection functions is then described."
"A new family of silicon transistors has been introduced by General Electric specifically for the entertainment industry. Designated the 2N2711–16 and the 2N2921–26, they are NPN planar passivated transistors housed in an epoxy package and intended for applications from audio frequencies to over 30 Mc. The outstanding feature of this family is the entirely new concept of manufacture used in their construction which allows prices competitive to or below germanium alloy prices, both domestic and foreign. To achieve low cost, automation has been applied to an extent previously unknown in the semiconductor industry. In addition, a low cost epoxy housing has been substituted for the conventional metal package. High quality and reliability are ensured by using planar techniques and materials originally developed for military transistors. These transistors have been in volume production for over a year and are backed by extensive life test and customer field experience. All types are immediately available in production quantities."
"The advent of the 1–1/8 inch diameter 94° Cathode Ray Tubes (23DAPU type) allows a new and different approach to sweep system design. With horizontal and vertical sweep components previously optimized as to cost and performance, the increase in sensitivity derived from the smaller neck 94° CRT does noi offer any appreciable system saving. However the increase in sensitivity now permits the design of a shorter, more economical yoke that provides circuit performance equivalent to previous 90° systems. The shorter yoke also allows a new gun arrangement that can shorten the overall CRT length by approximately 2 inches."
"An improved design of distributed parameter video delay line is discussed in which small size is achieved with better frequency and time domain characteristics. The device consists of the tandem connection of unit sections each of which is a distributed delay line of proper length using ferrite cores both inside and outside of the coil. This construction permits larger diameter of delay line with improved transfer characteristics, and consequently larger time delay can be obtained in shorter length. The experimental results show that a 1 μS delay line with 3 Mc bandwidth is constructed for about 2 inch length with little waveform distortion."
"Measurements of site attenuation and TV and FM receiver oscillator radiation were taken on both the 3 meter and 100 foot sites. A comparison of these measurements reveal the fact that the 3 meter site is capable of reliably determining the radiation level of these receivers. The compactness of the 3 meter site, which facilitates its installation in or adjacent to the engineering laboratory, results in economies and conveniences which warrant its serious consideration by any engineering group engaged in FM or TV receiver design or development."
"It is the purpose of this paper to briefly discuss the organization, purpose, and methods of Underwriters1 Laboratories, Inc., as applied to the testing and listing of electronic appliances such as radio and television receivers. The philosophy of the Laboratories with regard to the hazards which may be present in such appliances will be reviewed, highlights of our testing program will be summarized, and a number of color slides showing typical tests will be explained."
"A transistor, when used as a mixer in an FM tuner, will produce spurious responses that cause interference from other FM stations. The use of two mixer diodes in a balanced circuit to minimize this type of response is shown. Also described is a double-tuned circuit ahead of the r-f stage which will improve the spurious response ratio along with a decreased possibility of overloading the r-f amplifier."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Now that the IRE and AIEE have been combined and mergers of a number of professional groups are under way, it is appropriate to examine the position of our own group with reference to possible mergers with other groups and to review our publication and meetings activities."
"In the past the use of semiconductors in the horizontal deflection circuitry of television receivers presented one of the most difficult application problems. Several types of germanium and silicon transistors have been used with varying degrees of success. The long turn-off time of these power switching transistors resulted in considerable power dissipation during turn-off, which produced an overall low circuit efficiency as well as power-device unreliability. Although silicon power transistors with suitable switching times are now available which perform well in typical circuits, the present cost of these devices precludes their use in commercial applications."
"The evolution of a transistor designed specifically for television horizontal deflection is described in this paper. Device requirements are discussed and the required device design compromises are listed. The technique of epitaxy is indicated as a means of avoiding some of the usual device design compromises. The characteristics of the resulting epitaxial transistor are given. A few circuit design considerations are discussed."
"This paper describes the design and performance of a remote tuned FM receiver. Three voltage variable capacitance diodes are used to tune the RF amplifier, local oscillator and mixer stages. Either local or remote tuning is accomplished by means of a variable DC bias voltage giving performance equal to receivers tuned by mechanical variable capacitors. Tracking and temperature stabilization methods are described along with advantages and disadvantages of this tuning method with respect to those presently used. Possible applications include central home music systems and aircraft receivers where it is desirable to separate the tuning control from the receiver."
"Television yokes, as mass produced, are critical to routine quality control by the winder and later when reexamined before installation by the set manufacturer, usually in new surroundings."
"This paper describes crossmodulation in transistorized television tuners and develops an analytical method for predicting the crossmodulation of transistors over a wide range of operating biases and frequencies. The paper also evaluates crossmodulation interference in the mixer stage as well as in the rf stage of television tuners under adjacent-channel conditions. Various methods for the reduction of crossmodulation are reviewed. A transistor television tuner modified in accordance with the technique developed in the paper is shown to be substantially improved in crossmodulation performance."
"This paper describes the antenna and rf circuits of a transistorized AM auto radio receiver whose design emphasizes improved crossmodulation characteristics. The receiver discussed uses a single-tuned antenna and a single-tuned rf load. This design is shown to provide high stability across the broadcast band, as well as an acceptable signal-to-noise ratio and over-all bandwidth. The crossmodulation performance of this receiver is compared with that of receivers using different antenna and interstage coil configurations. Results are given of both laboratory evaluations and field testing under actual operating conditions."
"In transistor IF design, the use of double-tuned transformers with non-critical coupling factors is of importance, especially with the introduction of F M multiplex. Undercoupled circuits are desirable in this relatively wide band application to reduce envelope delay distortion. Many previous design procedures have been restricted to having both equal primary and secondary quality factors and critical coupling. Those without these restrictions have proved too cumbersome. Another problem associated with previous design methods which do consider non-critical coupling factors is the calculation of the bandpass and admittance characteristics of the double-tuned filters. The method presented here reduces this factor to the inspection of plots of computer derived, double-tuned transformer characteristics. The most commonly used bandpass characteristics are tabulated. In addition, equations are presented to enable calculation of any desired transformer characteristic not presented in plot or tabular form. A main consideration in IF design is the stability criterion. An equation is derived relating the total damping required for stable operation to a defined stability factor. A very simple relation is shown to exist between the required damping of the transistor input and output circuits. These relationships are used to obtain an expression for stable power gain. It is shown that from this expression stable power gain is a direct function of coupling factor. Conventional calculations complete the unneutralized design theory. A procedure is derived for the neutralized case which through the use of correction factors makes the neutralized design procedure similar to the unneutralized design, both in rapidity and technique. A four stage, 10.7 Mc, undercoupled amplifier is designed using both neutralized and unneutralized stages. Although the degree of undercoupling used causes the loss of approximately 3db gain, compared to a critical coupling case, the neutralized stages still exhibit a gain of 28.7db. The overall bandwidth is 250 kc. Measured results indicate correlation with the designed data within 2% for bandwidth and within 0.1 db for power gain."
"Similar considerations govern the age circuit design of both tube and transistor television receivers."
"This paper discusses the advantages gained in television picture-tube performance by use of a new high-emissivity heater coating. Analysis of the heat-transfer rate between the normal alumina-coated electron-tube heater and the cathode indicates that a significant improvement can be expected if the emissivity of the heater coating is increased. Experimental confirmation of the anticipated improvement has led to the development of a dark, non-conductive heater coating. This coating, initially used for receiving tubes, has been found both beneficial and practical for picture-tube heaters. The advantages of the \"dark heater\" include improved \"sag\" characteristics, greater burnout resistance, improved heater-cathode arc-over resistance, and greatly improved reliability due to the lower wire temperature in operation. The important design considerations are discussed with respect to physical geometry and electrical characteristics."
"The structure of optimum control systems and the form of the optimal control signals are discussed for minimum time, minimum fuel, and minimum energy control of linear time-invariant plants. If the control variables are bounded by 1 in magnitude, then the control signals must have the values +1 or -1 for minimum time response; +1, 0, or -1 for minimum fuel operation; +1, -1 or be linearly related to the state of the plant, between these limits, for minimum energy operation."
"Networks of certain types of time-varying circuit elements can be treated analytically in essentially the same way as networks of fixed-parameter elements, and for such networks the known theory of network analysis and synthesis of fixed-parameter elements can be considered as a special case of a more general theory. A few of the details of the extension to the general theory are considered, and an outline of the theory is presented."
"A simple technique is introduced for calculating the kernels in the Volterra series expansion, which represents the solution of a large class of nonlinear differential equations. The Volterra series considered in previous discussions can represent only solutions with zero initial conditions. The scope is widened in this paper to allow representation of the general solution of nonlinear differential equations. The last section of the paper presents an adaptation of a technique commonly used in the analysis and design of linear systems to a nonlinear system through the use of the Volterra series."
"This paper is not intended to present a case either for or against industrial generation of electric power. It is intended only as a guide to objectivity in determining the true merits of any such proposal. An attempt has been made to point out some of those factors which are too often neglected or insufficiently weighed in economic evaluations of by-product electric power generation projects, and to indicate a method which will, if properly used, automatically avoid any such inaccuracies. The conclusions drawn in this paper are those of the author and not necessarily a statement of the views of his company."
"Techniques are described for the rapid synthesis of twin-T RC (resistance capacitance) networks with specified singularities. The twin-T network can be used to generate a pair of complex zeros that lie at any specified points in the left-half portion of the s-plane and under certain conditions can be used to produce zeros in the right-half plane."
"In this paper a method is presented to examine the necessary conditions for the existence of certain limit cycles in nonlinear sampled-data systems. The method is based on the principle of specifying a certain repetitive output from the nonlinearity and finding under what conditions this sequence will be sustained. Many examples are worked to illustrate the method."
"A simple and systematic approach is presented to obtain the complete, exact, and exhaustive description of limit cycles that may exist in a relay sampled-data control system. The final expression in its closed form is obtained by simple substitution. There is no restriction on the order of the plant, nor does the feedback have to be unity. The period of the oscillation poses no problem in the approach presented. Clear and explicit relations between the self-sustained oscillations and system parameters have been established."
"This paper deals with an analytical investigation of the multiloop control system of a gas turbine compressor and power unit. The gas turbine and associated control loops are described as well as the reasons for choosing the analytical methods which are used."
"This paper describes the experimental evaluation of the dynamic characteristics of an air-borne multipurpose gas turbine engine and its control components. Justification of the test technique is given and the test procedure and type of instrumentation used in the evaluation is discussed, as are the methods of generating the driving functions for the test. The results of the evaluation are presented and the correlation of these results with the analytical results1 is presented."
"Checking Z(jw) for nonnegativeness reduces to an investigation of the behavior of the real part of the product of the pertinent V(jw) and the complex conjugate of I(jw). This real part function is constructed on the basis of piece-wise linearization of the voltage and current graphs and then reduced, using Tschebyscheff polynomials, to an equivalent ordinary polynomial which is tested for nonnegativeness by the usual methods between the values of plus and minus 1 of the polynomial variable"
"The second method of Liapunov is used to establish global asymptotic stability for certain nonlinear differential equations. On the basis of results obtained it is found that criteria, similar to the usua Routh-Hurwitz criteria for linear systems, can be established for rather general nonlinear systems. The results of other authors' investigations are discussed in view of the variable gradient method of generating Liapunov functions, and the results extended to the case of a third-order control system with numerator dynamics; they are of practical interest."
"Reasons for the preferred open-loop test method are given. A complete test station, built to calibrate precision tachometers in production, is described. A 0.007% precision a-c voltage ratio test console is described in detail giving schematics, critical shielding instructions, and pointers on reducing pickup. An error equation quantitatively describes the main sources of equipment error. Actual performance curves of different types of tachometers are presented with comments on the critical test techniques required."
"PRESENT-DAY aircraft electric power distribution systems are complex and are used to transmit considerable amounts of power. These systems are becoming more complex and are being operated at higher power levels as the number of electrically operated aircraft instruments, controls, and auxiliary equipment increases. Large military surveillance aircraft, carrying powerful radar and electronic countermeasure equipment, represent an extreme example of the large-scale use of electric power in aircraft."
"A completely static nuclear-powered thermoelectric generator is discussed. The reactor, designed for snap-10 (Systems for Nuclear Auxiliary Power), uses U235-zirconium-hydride fuel moderator and is capable of operating a thermoelectric generator at a hot-side temperature of 1,000 to 1,200 F (degrees Fahrenheit). A prototype thermoelectric generator is described which produced 250 watts of electric power at spacing operating temperatures. Waste-heat radiators for the system, having constant and tapering fin thicknesses, are discussed. Curves are presented of performance versus fin number and length for both tapered and constant-thickness fins. Weight and electric power capability of a present state-of-the-art thermoelectric generator-radiator system is presented in curve form and shows a 245-pound weight for a 250-watt system exclusive of the reactor and shielding."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Experimental error data were used to measure the queueing characteristics of a simulated detect and repeat telephone data transmission system operating with a constant rate source. The maximum queue varied considerably as a function of the telephone circuit error sample and data system. Several ratios of source rate to channel rate were used and with ratios of one-half or lower queues of more than 100,000 bits were found. Measurements were also made of the frequency of exceeding a buffer which was smaller than the maximum queue."
"An experimental time-division-multiplex electronic telephone exchange on a 200-line 4-wire PAM (pulse amplitude modulation) system is described. The exchange is composed entirely of solid-state devices. The channel time is divided into four phases which are effectively used to reduce the number of circuit elements of the exchange. For reliable operation, common and multiplexed circuits are duplicated, and fault detection and change-over operation are explained."
"This paper discusses some principal results of a recent Bell System subscriber loop survey. Statistically sound estimates of various physical and transmission characteristics of the loop plant are presented. This information is useful in appraising the current transmission properties of the plant in the light of existing requirements. It provides a novel basis for evaluating new developments and services affecting present plant."
"Switched-mode transistor operation is known to provide greater efficiency than circuits using linear amplifiers. This paper describes some switched-mode circuits and shows how they are used in a high-density carrier system; the improved circuit efficiency which results permits the carrier system to be considerably simplified and heat dissipation to be reduced greatly."
"Semiautomatic testing in telegraph networks outspeeds manual testing and minimizes human errors. A novel feature is a fully automatic routine tester which logs faults detected so that they can readily be located. Personnel can be concentrated on fault elimination and test intervals shortened with equal or reduced personnel strength. The network's reliability is enhanced as irregularities are detected before trouble can arise."
"ITT Federal Laboratories has developed a store and forward switching center capable of interfacing with both synchronous data and start-stop Teletype lines. This machine, designated the ITT 525, fully utilizes its internal speed to eliminate the need for per-line and other special-purpose hardware. State of the art components, a novel system design, and miniature packages are used to provide a flexible and compact, as well as low-cost, system."
"Free flow of traffic from Telegraphic Message Systems into and out of the switched voice network is now blocked by the lack of common directory codes and methods for direct easy translation from the message traffic codes (Baudot, Fieldata, etc.) into switching instructions for use by the line switching gear. This block may be removed by the choice of message directing codes usable by both systems without the necessity for intricate translating gear. There is inherent in most digital codes, a group of symbols that may be translated directly into digital directing codes usable by both the telephone switching gear and by telegraphic systems."
"The increased use of carrier systems and 1-way dial circuits has increased the complexity of transmission testing. The introduction of direct-distance dialing has made the transmission maintenance requirements far more stringent. The instrument described here, designated as the Model TTS 6, was developed to cope with the increased complexity, to provide a high degree of accuracy, and to permit the use of labor-saving “1-man” test procedures."
"The use of an addressable memory for an associative memory provides a flexibility which it is more difficult to achieve with a memory having associative features built into the hardware. One way to do this is to organize the information in the multilist structure which is the subject of this paper. This scheme has other advantages, such as very high efficiency of information retrieval in large and complex files, which can now be performed in real time."
"Analyses of two types of computational errors inherent in digital differential analyzer (DDA) operation are presented. Even though the emphasis is on the statistical analysis of round-off error, truncation error is also discussed in detail. The basic functional block of the computer, the integrator, is represented by a transform. Transform representation leads to analytical simplification in that block-diagram algebra and other phases of transform theory can be applied. Analysis of a high-resolution type of DDA is introduced as an extension to the theory. Examples are illustrated in Appendixes I - IV."
"The application of hybrid digital analog pulse-time circuit techniques is presented in two specific examples for flight control system computers. These new circuit techniques make it practical to replace the electromechanical components, such as a-c servomotors, tachometers, synchros, and potentiometers, now used in flight control systems, with completely solidstate circuitry. This will result in increased reliability for flight control systems."
"A high-capacity static power amplifier with reversible d-c output is described. The circuit consists of six silicon-controlled rectifiers fed from a 3-phase 4-wire a-c supply. The gates are driven by differentially controlled half-wave magnetic amplifiers energized from the line to neutral voltages. The steady-state and the transient operations with resistive and inductive loads are described and static transfer characteristics are calculated for typical loads. A mechanism for the commutation of high inductive loads during output reversal transients is described. This mechanism eliminates altogether line-to-line short circuits and results in extremely fast speed of response."
"In the fundamental-frequency types of flux-gate magnetometer described in this paper, ordinary toroidal cores without air gap operate as field-sensitive elements in self-saturating push-pull circuits, as used in the magnetic amplifier art. The simplest form of such a magnetometer consists essentially of a half-wave bridge circuit, in which the two toroidal magnetic amplifier cores are replaced by the semicircular portions of a single ring core having two or four equally rated gate windings and acting as a flux detector. In a modified arrangement, two half-wave push-pull circuits with ring-core flux-gate elements are combined in a full-wave system, which may be utilized either as a very sensitive magnetometer or as a gradiometer for the measurement of the inhomogeneity of the magnetic fields."
"Glass ignitrons were studied carrying up to 21,000 amperes with rise times as short as 1.25 μsec (microseconds). Kerr-Cell photographs show discharge growth, constrictions, and an expanding circle of arc spots with speeds up to 2 × 106 cm/sec (centimeters per second). The peak velocity varied with the 0.7 power of capacitor voltage and directly with the peak non-inductive component of anode voltage. Arc-front propagation, by ionic charging of a dielectric film, is discussed and is consistent with the measurements."
"The steady-state operation of the self-saturating magnetic amplifiers with rectified RC (resistance capacitance) loads is studied. Steady-state gain expressions are derived for square wave and sinusoidal gate supplies. Approximate methods for the evaluation of output quantities are given using a nomogram to simplify the calculations. Certain types of half-cyclic asymmetries peculiar to the capacitive loading are explained and criteria for their practical avoidance are given."
"The regions of allowed natural frequencies in Re p≥0 are determined for two different circuits which physically correspond to linearized equivalent circuits for tunnel diodes. One circuit consists of a parasitic resistance in series with the parallel capacity and negative resistance of a tunnel diode; the other contains series inductance. Passive networks to obtain any possible natural frequency are given. Multiple diode circuits are treated and for identical diodes it is shown that the best results occur with two diodes."
"Storage systems may be compared on the basis of the required number of buffers to be adequate at the same level of probability. The extreme cases of individual as against shared-line buffering are analyzed under the assumption of exponentially distributed message lengths. Finally, a method is indicated for increasing the accuracy of estimates of required storage capacity when the distribution of message lengths is known."
"Insuring safety of flight in high-performance aircraft requires great advancement in the reliability of flight-control computers. While such improvements are not attainable by component improvement alone, they can be effectively achieved by redundancy. This paper describes a combination of redundancy techniques developed to meet flight-control requirements, using majority logic supplemented by self-combinational networks and parity-check error detection. Alternative redundancy techniques are outlined and simple approximate expressions for reliability are derived, showing the reasons leading to selection of the desired combination. Theory of majority logic is explained, and expressions for optimum voter arrangement and resultant reliability are derived. Implementation of a model flight-control computer, built for the Air Force, is explained. Judicious computer organization enhances reliability of the basic nonredundant layout, achieving a mean lifetime of 1,500 hours (failure probability of 0.005 for an 8-hour mission). For an 8-hour mission, the redundant computer has an equivalent lifetime of 110 years (failure probability of 10‾5)."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions are given for determining that a class of stationary random processes are ergodic in the quadratic mean. The theorems given are wide-sense theorems and refer to relations between temporal averages and probability averages for first-order statistics. This, however, is generally required in engineering applications."
"This paper describes an experimental analyzer which utilizes a modified form of the sine-wave correlation principle to measure the dynamic characteristics of systems including industrial processes and instruments. Relatively high accuracy is obtained even when the output is distorted by system nonlinearities or deteriorated by noise. Methods are presented for estimating the system noise characteristics and determining the signal-to-noise ratio improvement to be expected from the use of correlation. Examples are given for the application of the process analyzer to a simulated system, control system components, and an industrial process."
"A new concept of more flexible instrumentation for power systems is described. A group of individual transducers is used for measuring the usual electrical quantities and temperature, each producing a high-level d-c output suitable for either analog or digital readout. Conventional d-c mechanisms are used in the end devices, eliminating the need for more complex mechanisms. The operating principles, performance characteristics, and circuit diagrams of six commercially available transducers are given."
"Kron's method of network analysis is based on the assumption of invariance of power between the primitive and actual networks. It is shown by an example and also theoretically that this assumption needs some explanation. The necessary transformation formulas are proved by an application of Kirchhoff's laws to the networks and lead to an equation more general than Kron's; the voltage and current transformation matrices in the equations derived are not necessarily transposes of each other."
"A Laplace transform method shows the solution of the second-order differential equation with time-varying coefficients and an arbitrary forcing function. However, the method is not restricted to second-order equations."
"One of the more troublesome characteristics of a transistor is its rather pronounced sensitivity to temperature.1,2 Consequently, in the design of a transistor circuit it is necessary to provide diligently for changes in device parameters resulting from both self-heating effects and ambient variations. Of primary importance is the stabilization of the d-c operating point.3,4 In addition, it is often necessary to obtain temperature-stable a-c performance in a transistor circuit. In the case of small signal amplifiers, an analytical basis for a-c temperature compensation is not generally available at the present time.5 This paper describes a fairly simple yet accurate design theory whereby the temperature variations in the transistor small signal parameters are effectively compensated by a minimum of passive elements. The result is an integrated amplifier whose current gain, voltage gain, power gain, input impedance, and output impedance are virtually insensitive to temperature. The amplifier is termed integrated since the required compensation may best be accomplished first, by analyzing the circuit as an entity, and second, by mounting all components on or within a common substrate."
"Characteristics of a system of two capacitively coupled tuned anode oscillators and possible modes of oscillation are analyzed. With certain adjustments of circuit parameters, asynchronous simultaneous oscillations are possible, while with other adjustments, single-frequency oscillations are obtained at one time. Possible use of the system as a frequency storage device is suggested."
"A simplification of Hayashi's method of symmetrical components for the steady-state analysis of periodically interrupted circuits is presented. The mathematical basis of the method is shown in terms of eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a transfer matrix. The method is illustrated by derivation of the equations for a balanced 3-phase bridge-type inverter and by the solution of the equations for the same inverter with infinite choke and resistive load."
"Expressions relating a-c permeability and core loss to the dynamic hysteresis loop geometry are derived. It is shown that for inductions of 5 kilogauss or less, the a-c permeability associated with an iron-core inductor represented by a resistance in parallel with an inductance is equal to the slope of the major axis of the dynamic hysteresis loop. If the iron-core inductor is represented by a resistor in series with an inductor, the a-c permeability is not easily interpreted. To calculate the permeabilities and the core loss, it is necessary to measure the peak magnetic induction, the peak magnetic field, and the phase angle between them. This was done for several different materials at frequencies of 60 and 400 cps (cycles per second) and the results are compared to modified Hay bridge measurements. The two methods in most cases agree to within about 5%."
"Hamilton's Modified Principle (HMP) is used to solve two nonlinear problems. The amplitude, frequency, and stability in the limit cycle of a simple pentode oscillator are calculated in order to demonstrate the principle. A standard graphical method finds the amplitude of oscillations, and results are compared with experimental data. For the case under consideration, the HMP solution gives better agreement with the experimental results - 6.6% deviation as compared with 12.4% for the graphical solution. An approximate answer is also found for the transient behavior of a nonlinear system where the input is a step function. The result is compared with an analog computer solution and shows good agreement. The solution of a simple relay servo system is indicated in which the amplitude and frequency in the limit cycle along with its stability are obtained by application of the one method of HMP."
"Transient voltages continue to cause insulation failures of transformers in a variety of applications. There is evidence that some voltage transients may include frequency components up to 100 mc (megacycles) of substantial peak-to-peak amplitude. Conventional techniques for securing reasonably accurate oscillographic recordings of high-frequency transients were found to be inadequate. Systems were devised which couple the oscillograph to the point of voltage measurement by 50-ohm cables. Through the combination of special signal-cable filters and relatively simple shielding techniques, the effects of spurious signals upon the oscillographic recording of high-frequency transient voltages can be virtually eliminated."
"A high-voltage capacitance ratio bridge based on the current comparator principle is described. The inherent advantages of this bridge are high sensitivity and high accuracy without the necessity of a secondary balance. By suitable design the bridge is made direct reading in capacitance ratio and dissipation factor. It has a resolution of 1 ppm (part per million) and an accuracy of approximately 10 ppm. The highest capacitance ratio internally available with full resolution is 1,000/1. Design considerations and construction details are given. Possible applications are discussed."
"A method is presented for the measurement of the variation of capacitance with voltage in gas-dielectric capacitors. It consists of applying to the capacitor a direct voltage and using a small alternating voltage to measure the capacitance variation. The direct voltage coefficient obtained in this manner differs from that obtained with alternating voltage, and this relationship is studied theoretically and verified experimentally. High-voltage compressed gas capacitors can have appreciable voltage coefficients because of eccentricity in their electrode structure. A method is presented for detecting and correcting such eccentricity without opening the capacitor. The voltage coefficients of a few solid dielectric capacitors were measured by comparison with a known air-dielectric capacitor and the results reported."
"A description is given of a very-small-impulse voltage divider which is insulated by compressed gas. The divider was designed for the measurement of steep-front impulse waves, and its errors have been evaluated by the step-response method, using a pressurized sphere gap. It was then used for measuring the volt-time curve of a sphere gap, and the results have been compared with those obtained by others."
"A method for measuring total core loss by means of a modified Hay bridge is established. It is shown from Kirchhoff's laws that the new method is applicable when the time rate of change of flux in the core is nonsinusoidal and exhibits quarter-wave symmetry. An experimental comparison of the modified Hay bridge method and the reflecting wattmeter indicates agreement within about 2% when the waveform has said symmetry."
"The problem of generating a periodic voltage signal whose Fourier-series representation is given by a band of essentially uniform-amplitude frequency components is examined in this paper. A mathematical background is first established for the purpose of comparing various techniques. Three separate methods of generating the periodic voltage signal are then presented and discussed."
"An electronic-flash light source and a calibrated time-delay generator provide a simple and accurate way of measuring the ballistic characteristics of instruments. Several parameters are suggested which can be measured directly by this method and used to specify the properties of an instrument. The method is useful in original design work, since the measured parameters can be related to mechanical constants of the mechanism, and is also applicable to production quality control, since standard instruments can be tested quickly without modifications."
"The design considerations and development of a 12-channel carrier system for trunk and subscriber service are described. The dual-sideband AM (amplitude-modulated) system uses one modulation step only and has a grouped and a stacked frequency allocation for use with and without repeaters respectively. Compandors supplied on an optional basis and the use of high-gain amplifiers make it advantageous to use wire and cable facilities at frequencies as high as 350 kc."
"As advisors to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Lincoln Laboratory performed an analysis of the Mercury beacon-tracking capabilities. Calculations of signal strength to be expected for orbital flights were made. As a result of the marginal signal levels which were computed, a program of improvements was initiated. Suborbital flight-test data were reduced and compared with computed values. Also extrapolations were made to the orbital cases. As a result of the test data, specific recommendations regarding antenna coverage were made. Orbital flights with and without recommended antenna modifications were performed, which afforded a unique \"before\" and \"after\" comparison."
"Project Mercury uses a telemetry-frequency direction finder as an acquisition aid for assisting narrow-beam radars to acquire the spacecraft, but the broad beamwidth of the quad-helix antenna allows multipath reception to degrade tracking accuracy at low elevation angles. Analyses of aircraft and spacecraft tracking results prove that aircraft tests at close range are valid for evaluating orbital tracking performance. Aircraft acquisition tests show the ability of the equipment to place the AN/FPS-16 tracking radar on target."
"This paper describes a microwave communication system of unusual design. Operation is in the 6-gc (gigacycles) frequency range, and the design is to provide for transmission of high-density messages (1,800 voice circuits) or video information. The equipment design is described in terms of the “Terminal Transmitter,” “Through Repeater,” and “Terminal Receiver.” Emphasis is placed on the unique features which distinguish the equipment from the conventional system design. Performance objectives are given."
"A mathematical method for estimating the crosstalk loss corresponding to a probability of occurrence of P% at a specific voice frequency is described. The method requires only the information in a given cable specification regarding unbalanced cable parameters and the cable manufacturer's inspection procedure. The method is general and can be used (with minor modifications) to determine crosstalk loss at all frequencies and probabilities."
"Operation of the AR matrix (which connects lines and trunks to the register) and of the line matrix (which connects the calling and called stations) is controlled by Originating and Terminating Markers, respectively. \"Modular\" construction permits adaptation to offices of various sizes; duplicate facilities are used alternately, but each can carry all the load if necessary, without degrading service. This paper describes the circuits that comprise the Originating and Terminating Markers."
"This paper discusses the design of a switching matrix that is a combination of relays and diode crosspoints, and the design of line and trunk termination equipment associated with it. This switching matrix and termination equipment will have, in addition to normal telephone design parameters (long life, low cost, ease of replacement, etc.), a frequency-range capability of 15 times the 0-4,000-cycle-per-second range normally used in telephone systems today."
"The translator provides -pre-translation- to determine the type of call and number of digits to be anticipated. Originating lines are checked for bandwidth rating, class-of-service, and AN (abbreviated-number) calling group identity. The register-sender is furnished a reconstructed directory number on AN calls. Routing translations take into account requested bandwidth, class-of-service, and trunk group alternate routing. On terminating calls, the called station is checked for bandwidth rating, and translator marks called line to terminating marker."
"There is a growing demand for accurate and reliable communication channels of various widths, on a call-up basis, for the transmission of analog and digital data. Design features of a nationwide voice co-ordinated communication system specially designed for data transmission are described."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"A new system of initiating telephone calls employing voice-frequency tones, controlled by actuating buttons, and known as “Touch-Tone Calling” is now in service on a trial basis. The resultant marked improvement in speed and ease of use appears to appeal strongly to telephone users. This system is described and the engineering and psycho-physical steps necessary to its development are outlined. Field tests of system feasibility and results obtained are discussed. Three companion papers present technical features of the system components."
"Touch-Tone calling will require the addition of receiver converter equipment in central office and PBX (private branch exchange) systems to enable them to respond to the new type of signals generated by the Touch-Tone station sets. The receiver-converter unit differs for each system."
"Pairs of voice-frequency tones activated by pushbuttons are used for transmitting digital information from telephone stations to central offices. The signal receiver may be exposed to speech during interdigital periods. To minimize the problem of digit simulation by speech, the signal frequencies were chosen to avoid harmonic relationships, and the receiver employs several tools to reduce the problem further. Comprehensive field trial results indicate that this system will operate satisfactorily over all types of standard customer lines."
"The Touch-Tone caller is a dual-frequency oscillator capable of the generation of any one of 16 combinations of two frequencies under the control of a pushbutton actuated switching mechanism. Initial telephone sets for ordinary services will supply only ten signals. The oscillator design procedure is given and the mechanism is described. The characteristics of special components are discussed. Satisfactory performance of the new caller has been demonstrated in laboratory tests and field trials."
"A new automatic toll-ticketing system for step-by-step telephone exchanges without register-senders handles person-to-person, collect, and credit-card or third-number calls, in addition to the usual station-to-station sent- paid traffic. Calling numbers are identified either automatically or by operators for both the toll center and tributary offices. A new cordless position for the operator includes a display of the called and calling numbers. “Time and Charges” and detail billing can be provided."
"Two similar 2-dimensional signal representations are defined for use in signal analysis problems. The proposed procedure divides the time-frequency plane into rectangles of arbitrary length and width and assigns a certain portion of the represented signal to each such rectangle. Representations are based upon time-limited and band-limited forms of the angular prolate spheroidal functions for conceptual and mathematical reasons. Applications and numerical examples are provided."
"The development of a high-accuracy low-speed reluctance synchronous motor is described. Low rotational speed, 60 rpm (revolutions per minute), is obtained directly from a high-frequency 1,800-cps (cycles per second) drive signal by the use of a Vernier drive technique. Of particular interest is the self-starting capability in a reluctance synchronous motor. High torque and great positional accuracy are obtained by unconventional design techniques. Possible applications include use as a high-torque stepping motor."
"A theoretical analysis of variable-energy adaptive digital communication is given for a slowly-varying channel. The adaptation is accomplished by providing the receiver with the capability of measuring signal-to-noise ratio, and controlling the transmitted signal energy by means of a feedback loop. Theoretical gains achievable with adaptation are calculated in terms of reductions in required mean transmitter energy as a function of a signal-fading parameter for different probabilities of unsatisfactory operation."
"The engineering of microwave systems traversing extensive water surfaces and flat terrain has always presented a challenging problem. The new and more sophisticated 6-gc (gigacycle) equipments present new and interesting variations to the problem. The TH system, utilizing cross-polarized channels and some frequency overlap to effect a large message load capacity, is such a system. A new study was required to evaluate the particular factors in engineering such a system across the Great Salt Lake desert in Utah."
"Although railway dispatchers' telephone circuits should normally be entirely separate from other telephone facilities, there are times when interconnection is desirable. This paper describes dial equipment which would complete such connections without the aid of an operator, and without using the existing \"Type 60\" selectors. This system utilizes resonant-reed oscillators and relays in the voice spectrum. It requires little power (no standby power required at the way-station) and has low bridging losses. Tuned \"guard\" circuits preclude switching response to voice currents."
"The CCITT (International Telegraph and Telephone Consultive Committee) has defined margin in general and different types individually. The minimum margin for a teleprinter in service, including the local end, is fixed at 35% with an error rate of 1%. The definitions of conventional distortion, conventional margin, and error rate are not in correspondence with one another. Based on a mathematical approach a proposal is made for corresponding values of these items. Methods and instruments for measuring margin are described."
"Data recorded during the multipoint line tests which were jointly conducted by American Telephone and Telegraph and International Business Machines Corporation were studied from the point of view of attempting to determine what typical error characteristics are likely to be present during normal operation in a data communication system operating over leased line facilities. The conclusions of this study and the method by which they were reached is given. Error rates were found to be quite time variant. Statistical correlation between errors appeared to be caused by two separate mechanisms. One mechanism is a steady-state electrical noise which accounts for correlation between errors separated by times up to about 5 milliseconds. The second mechanism is a time-varying interference which accounts for correlation between errors separated by as much as several hours."
"The ADIS is a high-speed system for gathering and distributing data involving a large number of originating and receiving locations. It was developed by the Teletype Corporation for the FAA (Federal Aviation Agency). Serving as a nation-wide aviation weather data system, ADIS currently includes 600 observation points and approximately 2,400 subscribers. The ADIS system makes data available in minimum time with a high degree of inter-regional selectivity. The message director equipment can be programmed to collect and distribute the data in any order desired."
"An intuitive approach to a known technique for solving static field problems is presented. The method itself consists of approximating an integral equation with a set of simultaneous algebraic equations and finding the solution with the aid of a computer. An engineering application for which the method seems well suited is in the analysis and design of devices using ceramic permanent magnets and, for this reason, the paper is oriented along these lines."
"Artificially commutated converters are proposed in order to eliminate the need for lagging a-c supplies and lead a-c loads for conventional rectifying and inverting circuits. An artificial commutating circuit is present and analyzed. Expressions for the commutating time, overlap, and commutating energy requirements are derived. Test data show how an auxiliary voltage can satisfactorily cause commutation in those regions where reactive energy is returned to the a-c system of the static converter."
"The temperature distribution in a supercooled melt is qualitatively described. Properly shaped heat shields are shown to overcome parasitic wall growth and thermal shock, besides being an additional means of controlling thermal conditions. Using such a setup, it is possible to grow material in continuous sheets with a wide range of physical dimensions. The sheets are single crystals, dislocation-free, and have excellent surfaces."
"The coupling of nuclear reactors with thermionic converters is reviewed. First, the paper discusses principles of operation of thermionic converters, together with present and anticipated advancements. Particular emphasis is given to parameters that influence optimum performance and life of converters; namely, work function of emitter and collector, spacing between the same, temperatures of operation, cesium vapor pressure, and materials. The discussion is illustrated by a series of experimental results and amplified by theoretical analysis."
"A method using steady-state transforms is described which indicates how the sum function of a Fourier series may be obtained. The method can be applied to problems arising from circuits containing concentrated circuit parameters, but is not quite so useful for those having distributed parameters. Tables of Fourier series and their sum functions are presented, and several examples of the application of the method in circuit problems are given in this paper."
"A class of decoders is described which translates an input of N bits to a unique output signal on one of 2N output line s. This operation is equivalent to that performed by diode decoding matrices except that the output may be a current pulse of several hundred ma (milliamperes) rather than a logical level. The logic on which these decoders are based is described and implementations of it which use only magnetic cores, wires, resistors, and standard semiconductor circuit elements are analyzed. These implementations require as few as N+1 cores, N+1 related drivers, and a single current source. Decoding is accomplished by current steering. Consideration is also given to the use of these matrices for error detection and correction in redundant codes."
"Due to their greater economy, gigahertz computers will eventually replace megahertz computers. Circuits and system organizations have been actively explored for the last 3 years, and various devices and circuits have been proposed. This paper attempts to integrate and give perspective, from a system viewpoint, to isolated disclosures, by classifying and contrasting various developments with emphasis on the more promising approaches. The first gigahertz computer will probably be made of tunnel-diode baseband circuitry. For the long range, thin-film cryotrons, with a cost advantage of 100 to 1 over tunnel diodes, show the greatest promise."
"The problem of linearization is defined as the approximation of a nonlinear system by a general dynamic linear operator which is defined over the class of the system input functions. From this standpoint, the concept of dynamic statistical linearization is developed. The approach is formulated in a general way for the nonstationary nonlinear case, and the necessary and sufficient conditions are presented for the specification of an optimal equivalent-linear system. A mean-square error criterion is used to develop a modified Wiener-Hopf equation, with explicit solutions being obtained for systems subject to stationary random inputs, and for systems subject to deterministic functions of random amplitude."
"The problem under consideration is that of calculating the reaction of the charged particles in an electric precipitator on the current. The major results are as follows: (1) duct precipitators are twice as sensitive to the presence of charged particles as pipe precipitators of the same interelectrode spacing; and (2) the interelectrode spacing is the only geometric factor entering into the calculation. These results extend earlier work on pipe to duct precipitators."
"A magnetic frequency tripler is a nonlinear magnetic system which is used for the production of triple-frequency output from a 3-phase fundamental frequency source. Although triplers have been used extensively for certain applications, the design of these devices has until now been largely empirical. Earlier papers1,2 have presented limited analyses of magnetic frequency-tripling devices and the authors have previously reported on an equivalent-circuit approach to the analysis and design of these devices.3 This latter approach was still partly empirical in that the parameters from which the equivalent circuit was derived had to be determined experimentally."
"A cube-law device is normally considered to be useless as a detector. A symmetrical nonlinear resistance has a cube-law characteristic and can be used as a detector when the input voltage is asymmetric about the time axis. Such asymmetry in voltage is commonly found in a class of nonlinear devices whose waveshapes are characterized by a firing angle. Detection of this wave with a cube-law device produces a polarity-sensitive output without the need of a reference voltage."
"The treatment of the magnetic amplifier as a charge-controlled device, consistent with its mechanics of operation, makes possible a simple and unique description of various circuits. Better insight into the details of the self-saturating magnetic amplifier's operation and performance is attained, whereas the generality of the approach is conserved. This is mainly a result of the general regularities of the physical nature of core material behavior, which are here taken as the starting point of analysis. The charge control approach is novel with respect to magnetic amplifiers; however, the standard technique of core testing according to Roberts' method is shown to be applicable, receiving a new generalized interpretation."
"Numerous methods are presented for graphically determining the impedance of linear circuits in the sinusoidal steady state. This paper gathers together selected methods scattered throughout the literature and adds two new methods. The majority employ straight lines, requiring no inversions or circle diagrams to achieve their results. These visual, graphical methods are particularly useful in the creation of circuits to achieve a given objective. The graphical methods are rapid and less subject to human error than the mathematical approaches which they supplement. They have a strong educational content both in and out of the classroom."
"Various types of magnetic amplifiers for operation with such low-level low-impedance signal sources as thermo-couples have recently been developed for use in automatic control systems. In many cases, their output needs to be amplified by means of multistage magnetic amplifiers. In some applications an a-c output or a full-wave output is desired from the output stage magnetic amplifier."
"A balun is a device for matching an unbalanced line to a balanced load. Described here is a balun with a cw (continuous wave) rating, with matched load, of 67.5 kva (kilovolt-amperes) over the frequency range from 2 to 30 mc (megacycles). A transmission-line-type design along with a newly developed ferrite core material and special cooling techniques have been used to achieve this wide bandwidth and high-power capabilities in a small size. A description of the unit and performance test results are included."
"Nine years ago, in 1953, The Howard Savings Institution of Newark, N. J., launched a research study into automation. Today, Howard Savings Institution customers are enjoying the benefits of the fastest, most accurate savings accounting system in the world. This paper describes the customer benefits, the electronic data processing system that makes them possible, and the advantages and disadvantages of real-time data processing for the savings bank industry."
"A domain wall model consisting of semicylindrical domains at the surface of the material in the saturated state can be used to describe irreversible flux changes in grain-oriented 50% nickel-iron (Ni-Fe) alloys, if these flux changes are produced by pulses of magnetomotive force (mmf). This model can also be used to describe certain small-signal reversible flux changes. The resulting analysis is applicable in the saturation region and in the case of small superimposed a-c signals during a large-scale flux reversal initiated by mmf drives."
"The term “turn-off silicon-controlled rectifier” relates to a 4-layer p-n-p-n switch, which can be turned on and off by gate current pulses of opposite polarities. Conditions for gate turn-off are analyzed by the carrier charge concept. Two methods for obtaining gate turn-off are developed and experimentally verified. Turn-off current gains of 1,000, and more, were measured. An estimate is made regarding larger turn-off SCRs (silicon-controlled rectifiers) of the future, and some applications are listed."
"This paper describes a self-scheduling routine which can be incorporated into the supervisory system of a computer. The problem of scheduling a number of tasks on an overloaded computer can be formulated as a linear programming problem and then solved by means of the transportation method. Priorities for both jobs and customers, as well as a nonlinear loss function for late completion, form the basis of the model."
"The reliability of redundant configurations of majority logic switching circuits is mathematically developed using the system state probability method. Both repairable and nonrepayable systems are considered. A compatible set of solid-state switching circuits is described which satisfies the requirements of the mathematical models. The nuclear protective system problem is considered in detail since it is a typical application whereby long-term high reliability is a major requirement."
"Error-detection and correction codes are usually used to detect and/or correct errors in transmission or storage of information. This paper describes methods for using these codes to check whether information from the proper address or from the proper position in a time sequence has been received."
"AMONG the most challenging problems facing the communication systems engineer are those of designing a system of nodes interconnected in a pattern by transmission links and then of designing means for controlling movement of messages through the system. Optimum or quasi-optimum methods of message routing have strong influence on effective utilization of nodes and links as well as on the over-all service provided to users of the system."
"The continuing growth of point-to-point microwave communications has resulted in many new applications which require differing performance characteristics. As the amount of information entrusted to microwave grows, the need for operating reliability becomes much greater. This paper describes a new transistorized microwave system which meets these requirements, and discusses the design approaches used. The system is unusually flexible and embodies many design innovations which result in greatly improved performance."
"Discontinuities in long wave-guide runs carrying a frequency-modulated (FM) radio relay signal cause signal reflections (echoes), which in turn cause intermodulation distortion. Previous papers1,2 have discussed an FM radar method for determining the location and magnitude of these discontinuities. This paper discusses the application of this method using commercially available equipment. The two most important characteristics of the measurement method are its sensitivity, i.e., how small a reflection can be measured with a given accuracy, and its resolution, the smallest distance between two separately measurable discontinuities of approximately the same magnitude. The equipment discussed has a signal-to-noise ratio of 6 db (decibels) for a 1% reflection 12 feet away with a 1-foot distance between separately resolvable discontinuities anywhere within a 100-foot run. The theory of the measurement method, the use of the equipment, and methods for maximizing the sensitivity and resolution are discussed."
"In the broad-band switching system there is no “flat-rate” service; an exact charge must be made for each call, based on the distance, the time (in units of 6 seconds), and the bandwidth requested. Billing information is gathered by a ticketer in the originating office, rearranged by a tabulator, and permanently recorded by means of a tape-perforator."
"There are a number of problems which arise when data-processing equipment is to be connected to communications lines in real-time systems. Four different solutions, utilizing essentially three basic approaches, consisting of (a) a system modification, (b) an addition, and (c) an independent stored-program device, are discussed. Each has certain advantages and disadvantages, and the choice depends on the system complexity and size, information flow rates, and the central processor requirements."
"The concentrator to be described has individually packaged circuits for each line, which may be distributed along the cable and operated by circuits in the central office. It permits concentration of a multiplicity of lines to relatively few trunks. A so-called number group control is used to effect the operations at the remote packaged units. This can become the first stage in a normal switching system."
"The Bell Telephone Company of Canada recently conducted a successful field trial of gas-filled protectors on open wire and cable intertoll facilities. The purpose of this trial, as well as extensive preliminary laboratory tests, was to compare the electrical and maintenance characteristics of gas-filled protectors with those of the conventional carbon-block spark-gap protectors. Results are summarized herein."
"The quality of a spot weld is determined by applying a periodic pressure while a test current is flowing through it. Poor quality is indicated by a variation in the weld resistance which results in a periodic potential across the weld. This potential is amplified for ease of detection. When a sinusoidal alternating current is used the presence of harmonic potentials indicates a poor weld. Removal of the fundamental by a filter is desirable before amplification."
"Described is a simulation allowing the determination of latitude and longitude errors, generated in a Doppler - inertial navigation system, due to numerous sources. Errors in navigation systems are small and would be obscured in a direct simulation of the system. By simulating the error equations, the influence of error sources and of system parameters on latitude and longitude errors can be readily determined. To demonstrate the value of the simulation, some data resulting from simulated flights are presented."
"Development of the PDM-to-digital encoder and associated translator resulted from a requirement to preserve the accuracy of pulse-duration modulation (PDM) telemetered data. Deterioration of accuracy in the data reduction or “playback” of such data is avoided by digitizing the data directly at the output of the receiver and recording the digitized data in serial form on a standard PDM channel of a magnetic tape recorder such as an Ampex model 309 using Ampex model 303 pulse amplifiers. The pulse duration is measured at the half-amplitude level of the PDM pulses for the digitizing process to minimize the effects of variations in amplitude and rise and fall times. Once the PDM data are digitized, no error is introduced by the PDM circuitry or wow-and-flutter characteristics of the tape recorder. Range timing is recorded on a standard channel adjacent to the PDM channel. A translator is required at the data-reduction facility to convert the digital data recorded on a conventional PDM tape recorder channel into a format suitable for computer or buffer equipment use. The translator, with associated time code reader to read the tape recorded range timing, supplies a time tag with a time resolution of 1 millisecond for each digitized data sample."
"This paper reviews the operational and design features of a digital telemetering and control system installed to measure and control water flow in the Salt River Project system. Solid-state devices and multiaperture magnetic logic elements are used throughout the design providing a fail-safe error-detecting highly accurate telemetering and control system capable of withstanding severe environmental conditions. A VHF (very-high-frequency) radio communications channel is used for data transmission between the master and remote stations."
"PAM, PDM, and PCM techniques, and their applicaion to digital telemetry are discussed. The requirements of these telemetry modes in terms of link conditions, tone equipment, and terminal equipment is examined. Conclusions are reached regarding adaptability to high speed, multiplexing, and hardware requirements."
"RELIABLE SYNCHRONIZATION is one of the major problems encountered in digital data transmission systems. One method by which the synchronization reliability may be improved is to increase the length of the synchronization word, particularly if Barker or other optimum words are employed. The full theoretical improvement offered by the use of such a word can be approached in practice only if the word is recognized as an ensemble by a device which processes the combination of signal and noise as a linear mixture."
"The application of resonance techniques to the ratio transformer bridge is described. The capacitance-to-inductance transfer thus achieved makes it possible to refer all audio-frequency reactance standards to one group of standard capacitors. Basic theory and alternate bridge balancing techniques are discussed. Significant sources of error are analyzed, and praceical numerical limits given. Experimental results are correlated with National Bureau of Standards (NBS) measurements. These results show a series resonance transfer accuracy better than 50 parts per million."
"Rules have been prescribed for the design of telephone subscriber loops. Adherence to the rules provides satisfactory transmission, while transmission is usually degraded if the rules are violated. The transmission of loops adhering to and violating the design rules is described. It is shown that insertion loss can be used as a criterion for detecting loops which have violated the rules. The insertion loss measurement can be made a “pass-fail” type of test by using a sweep frequency generator with a shaped output versus frequency and by accounting for the loop resistance and length. Such a “pass-fail” technique can be used for both loaded and nonloaded loops."
"A new transmission measuring system has been developed for the testing of telephone subscriber loops. It consists of an electronically swept oscillator located at the central office and a small measuring set called the “loop checker” used at the subscriber's location. The user sets the loop length information into the loop checker, and with another adjustment the set takes the loop resistance into account. The measurement results in a direct pass-fail judgment of the transmission quality. Companion papers cover the engineering aspects of loop transmission and the results of field tests of the new equipments.1,2"
"A simple inexpensive system for checking transmission on subscriber lines has been developed. The system includes a small portable loop checker for use at the customer location and a sweep-frequency generator located at the central office. Operational field trials to determine the most effective methods of applying the system and the results obtained are discussed."
"The small-signal transient behavior of junction transistors may be considered to be dependent on two factors: the response to an instantaneously injected charge increment, and the relationship between excess minority-carrier charge and steady-state collector current. Simple approximations to the charge-step response waveform result in transfer functions which closely approximate that from the one-dimensional diffusion model. Certain types of experimentally observed nonideal behavior may be approximated by suitable choice of coefficients."
"Greater dependence of the United States on telecommunications has increased the demand for higher reliability and transmission quality on communication systems, and information capacity requirements on microwave relay systems has increased almost exponentially in the past few years. The advent of semiconductors with subsequent improvement in life and frequency range has made possible new microwave equipment which is reliable, compact, economical, and which provides high information capacity and high-quality transmission. This paper discusses the design of the transistorized RF/7 microwave relay system which was first placed in service during 1961."
"The system described herein provides specialized voice communication services used by the Federal Aviation Agency as an important tool in the complex operation of air traffic control. The design features significant advantages over older systems in the speed, convenience, and flexibility of establishing communications between air route traffic control center personnel and communicants at similar or allied terminations. Switching is accomplished by crossbar, common control equipment of the same general type used in telephone central offices."
"A SIGNALING DEVICE, comprising essentially an input rectifier, an oscillator, and a sound transducer (the handset receiver), has been developed for use in telephone instruments which are too small to accommodate the electromagnetic type of ringer. It responds to present standard ringing voltages and frequencies, and does not respond to dial pulses. Electronic signals of this type are also suitable for use in electronic switching systems, which cannot handle the power required by electromagnetic ringers."
"Current facsimile techniques for the direct recording of graphic material at a remote point are in widespread use in specific areas. These systems, however, are relatively slow with a scan rate of perhaps 15 and 20 lines per second as a useful upper limit. A need exists for more rapid generation and recording of facsimile information with the possibility of pushing transmission speeds, instead of a page a minute, to a page a second."
"The transistorized 2×24-channel carrier telegraph equipment consists of two FM (frequency modulation) type 24-channel systems in a bay, as recommended by the CCITT (International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee). Taking account of the major weakness of the transistor circuit and of the center frequency variation of the FM system caused by temperature rise, the various parts and circuits have been specially designed, including, for example, the use of afc (automatic frequency control), electronic relay, and special circuits for the oscillator and discriminator. This paper describes these features and characteristics."
"A new data transmission technique has been evolved, which has the speed capability of the quaternary systems and, at the same time, promising performance. An important advantage of this technique is that the amount of circuitry required and the degree of complexity are relatively low, being not much more than for a straight binary system and much less than for a typical quaternary system. The process is sufficiently general so that it is applicable to serial transmission over wire lines and parallel transmission over high-frequency radio circuits."
"The effects of applying the null-zone decision mechanism to two types of envelope-detection systems are investigated, and comparisons are made with previous results for synchronous-detection systems. It is demonstrated conclusively that, just as for the synchronous system, null-zone reception offers a means of improving the information rate of a unidirectional system. Moreover, the relative behavior is about the same in all three cases, except that the asymmetry of the on-off system may present some additional difficulties."
"The performance of discarding and of cumulative decision-feedback systems employing null-zone reception is evaluated for two common types of envelope detection. Compared with a synchronous phase-detection system, of course, the envelope-detection systems necessarily suffer somewhat, both because of the loss of phase information and because of the threshold effect which occurs below roughly 0 db. Nevertheless, feedback is again shown to permit an unlimited trade-off between error probability and transmission time."
"The characteristics of the evolution of gas from metals in vacuum arcs are presented. New materials have been developed having ungettered gaseous impurity concentrations of the order of 1 part in 109. Loss of vacuum in a vacuum switch by desorption and by diffusion of helium and other gases is negligible when good techniques are employed. Data are presented for electrode erosion for gas-free metals in the vacuum arc."
"A study has been made of the breakdown and recovery strength characteristics of experimental vacuum interrupters incorporating a variety of contact materials. Our data show that much of the breakdown strength for these devices is gained in less than a 1/8-inch gap length. Experiments using a synthetic test system indicate that these experimental switches recover nearly all of their breakdown strength in 1 to 15 μsec (microseconds) after the cessation of peak arc current ranging from 400 to 3,200 amp (amperes)."
"The problem of current chopping in the vacuum interrupter is considered and various reasons for the occurrence of this phenomenon are explored. Metals with high vapor pressure were found to be most suitable for the maintenance of an arc at low currents in vacuum, and have been utilized for the solution of the current chopping problem in vacuum interrupters. There is some evidence that the presence of low work function materials also enhances arc stability."
"This paper discusses the synthesis of a class of a-c filters for use with high-power silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) inverters. Three features of the class of filters described include: (1) means to commutate or “turn off” the SCR's in the inverter; (2) a voltage transfer function which is virtually independent of load impedance at the fundamental frequency; and (3) high harmonic attenuation for the purpose of producing a high-quality sine-wave voltage from a square-wave inverter. An example of the design of one particular filter in this class is given and its characteristics are discussed in detail."
"A variable spacing cesium thermionic converter of planar geometry has been tested under different conditions of emitter temperature, cesium pressure, and interelectrode spacing. It has been found that at low emitter temperatures of the order of 1,300 C to 1,400 C (degrees centigrade), high-power densities in the range of 2 to 4 watts/cm2 (watts per square centimeter) can be obtained with a molybdenum emitter. The performance under these conditions corresponds to an ignited mode where ions are introduced by a different mechanism than surface ionization.1"
"Extensive control and transient performance tests were conducted on the Dresden Nuclear Power Plant and are discussed here. Use of conventional plant sensors greatly facilitated obtaining transient data. Test data agree well with prior analog computations. The maneuverability and transient behavior of this boiling-water reactor plant when undergoing load changes, turbine trip-offs, and other plant disturbances establish this plant as being very satisfactory for utility applications. Stability characteristics of this reactor are excellent."
"The construction, operation, and application of a titanium ion pump, which is a version of the Klopfer-Ermrich getter ion pump, is described. This pump, convenient to use, is of simple, yet rugged construction. Use of the pump in processing vacuum tubes results in savings of time, equipment, space, and operating personnel. Ultimate vacuum level is improved by pumping the tubes during the aging and testing steps which follow the normal exhaust procedure."
"An active all-pass network having phase properties similar to that of the conventional L-C all-pass lattice has been developed. The network is unbalanced in form and requires one quarter as many phase-shift-determining reactive elements as the equivalent passive lattice. Limitations due to the active nature of the device can be overcome by proper choice of source and load impedances. The circuit has been experimentally verified."
"The logic design technique and the method of implementing logic design with a 200-mc (megacycle) logic module are described. The logic design technique results in a design which conforms to the constraints on fan-in, fan-out, and timing which are required for satisfactory module operation. The implementation method takes account of the transmission time delay between modules. The design and construction constraints required for this system are typical for a wide variety of high-speed logic systems."
"Kilomegacycle computers will be achieved only partly by high-speed components, memories, and logics. For some time to come, speed will be derived substantially from system organization. In the final analysis, memory speed will become of primary importance in obtainable system size, and cost will prevent very large high-speed memories from matching kilomegacycle logic. This leads to consideration of hierarchies of memory. A systems basis for utilizing hierarchical memories, giving the effect of homogeneous memory systems, is presented."
"SOLID-STATE devices are providing solutions for many control problems in industrial and defense products. New semiconductors1 permit control techniques that previously were unavailable. Many control systems require amplifiers or function generators with insulation between the input signal and the output. Saturaable reactors2,3 have the needed insulated input. No semiconductor has an insulated input for d-c signals. The combination of semiconductors and saturable reactors provides the advantage of semiconductors and the advantage of insulated input."
"The fundamentals of voice production and hearing are briefly reviewed with respect to the nature of the complex speech waveform. Some early speech devices are noted and current work in the field of computer simulation is considered. A general description of an experimental word code generator developed at the IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) Endicott Development Laboratory is given. This device produces a compressed digital code from the spoken word as a function of frequency, intensity, and time. Individual sound patterns are coded as a function of the changes in the word itself. The code is produced as the word is spoken and is displayed in matrix form for immediate analysis. Readout to a card punch or other storage media is easily accomplished. The operation of the system is described with special reference to the circuit configurations and techniques developed for the word code generator. The advantages and disadvantages of the digital representation of speech events are discussed considering storage economy, information transfer, and pattern recognition. It is concluded that digital techniques for speech analysis should find usage in speech therapy, speech recognition, and speech synthesis."
"The effects of reactor exposures in the range 1016‾1018,/sup> fast neutrons per cm2 (square centimeter) on the magnetic properties of 16 polycrystalline ferrites and garnets are presented. Measured properties included coercive force, remanence, saturation induction, complex permeability, and FMR (ferromagnetic resonance) linewidth. It was found that the hysteresis properties and FMR linewidth were slightly affected by exposures of 1018 neutrons per cm2. Complex permeability was affected by exposures as small as 1016 neutrons per cm2. All of the observed changes were small."
"Calculation of network functions associated with configurations of lumped elements, particularly when making use of digital computers, has been facilitated greatly by the development of topological methods of analysis. Problems in electromagnetic wave propagation may be solved similarly by use of suitable topological representations. In this paper basic topological representations are developed for a plane wave in free space, reflections from conducting surfaces, behavior at dielectric boundary discontinuities, transmission through wave guides, and transmission through circulators. The several representations developed serve as basic models for specific cases, and, in addition, illustrate a method whereby additional representations may be derived."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THIS SECOND special issue on project management and control within a year reflects several apparent trends. The first is the increased analytical attention being given to problems in this area by management and by management analysts. Secondly, the imposition of certain standardized project and program control techniques on contractors by various contracting agencies has forced many companies to try to adapt the early versions of these techniques to their own circumstances. Thirdly, many analysts, including people in the operations research and management science field, are finding extensions, revisions, criticisms, and adaptations of these techniques intellectually stimulating. Finally, perhaps, the TRANSACTIONS is becoming recognized as a focal point for technical articles on these subjects. This latter point is reflected in the large number of additional, related papers still in the editorial and review mill."
"After a very brief exposition of the PERT method, a critical discussion is given of three basic assumptions of PERT. The assumptions are: 1) that a β distribution defined between the pessimistic and optimistic time estimates adequately represents the time required to perform an activity; 2) that the standard deviation of that distribution equals 1/6 the range; and 3) that the probability of completing a project by a given date can be computed by calculating the critical path through the network and invoking the Central Limit Theorem. The significance and correctness of each of the assumptions are considered and suggestions are made for modifying them. The effects of these suggestions are shown on a typical PERT network. Other features of the networks which could simplify PERT calculations are mentioned."
"A computerized solution to certain problems of project management, specifically, resource scheduling and resource allocation, is presented. The problem of completing a project with some quantitative combination of resources may be solved through simulation. A diagrammatic model of the project or facility, a resource simulator and a computer are used to solve the problem. The question “What if I…?” must be answered quickly, accurately and easily if project planning and scheduling are to be effective. A Critical Path Schedule is a minimum time solution which does not consider the quantity and availability of resources during each day of the project. It is, therefore, generally inadequate for day to day project management. Through resource simulation and scheduling, this deficiency may be corrected. The computer can prepare several solutions to the problem. The schedule which best meets management's project cost and project duration objectives is selected for actual use. The resource simulator is no substitute for competent management. The traditional requirements of project definition and objectives still exist. The simulator simply makes the most effective use of resources and produces a realistic work schedule."
"The U. S. Army Electronics Research and Development Laboratory role in SYNCOM, the DOD/NASA Communications Satellite System is defined and the development and use of a unique program control system will be discussed. The reporting system with its 24-hour status response capability and a single denominator feature that provides three levels of detail for decision making purposes by various levels of management will be covered. The interrelationship of a cost accounting system, actual vs forecast with the second-level events schedule networks by areas of technical effort, components of equipment, cost categories will be discussed. The summary shows how the best of PERT concept has been achieved with a minimization of its normal complexity."
"In this paper a network flow model is applied to the problem of choosing the best pattern of training and retraining activities undertaken to insure that properly trained personnel are available when and where needed at minimum cost. Although developed and discussed in the context of programming training in the U. S. Air Force, where the “employer” trains most “employees” for specific military skills, the model is appropriate for other applications where employers must engage in large scale training and retraining activities. First the problem is defined, and the general model formulated. Then the details of tailoring the model to the characteristics of the particular type of problem are discussed. An example using hypothetical data is presented."
"A description of the concepts and systems of program management and project control used at Martin Orlando is given. The functions of each level of management are described. Project master plan and project control techniques are illustrated. Input-output control curves are discussed."
"This paper was written to assist those who wish to install a Project Cost Control system in their own organization. It does not provide the detailed procedures or computer programs, but it does discuss in some detail: 1) the development and implementation of the system, 2) the definitions of responsibility and authority required to make the system work, 3) the roles and interrelationships of the controller, line management and project management, 4) the requirement for, and methods of, dividing projects into manageable pieces both in terms of size and of time, 5) the paperwork required for documentation of both data inputs and data outputs (reports), and 6) the interpretation of reports in terms of project, organization and individual performance. The system described does not introduce any radically new approaches to management; it is clearly evident, however, that the application of the well-established principles discussed in the paper will produce worthwhile improvements in Project Cost Control with an attended improvement in management as a whole. The Cost Control System is an excellent base for PERT/COST. The “work package” approach and the “manageable size task” approach are, in effect, synonymous. The changes required to produce data outputs in accordance with customer interpretations of the PERT/COST requirements are small. A major step toward PERT/COST, that of “fine grained” cost control, is provided by the system."
"In the process of collecting literature for a study of the network-type management control systems, it was found that such literature was both plentiful and diverse. To facilitate a systematic analysis of the content, the documents were organized by author, title, author's organization, chronology, and a file number. In the belief that this compilation might be of help to other researchers contemplating similar studies, it was decided to publish the results of this effort in the form of a bibliography. This bibliography comprises two listings which were considered to be of greatest general interest and usefulness, one indexed by author and one indexed by title. A RAND Cost Analysis Department file number is included as a part of each item for the purpose of facilitating identification for any corrections or discussions. The material will be updated on a continuing basis, and the bibliography may be reissued if there is a sufficient amount of new material and interest to warrant it. The author will appreciate receiving any new material that is appropriate for inclusion in this bibliography and any corrections to existing items. The fifty items selected for the excerpt were chosen more to demonstrate the scope of the material covered than to indicate significance. Inclusion or omission from the excerpt should not be construed to represent in any way the author's evaluation of the material. In an excerpt like this, one might expect the items in the author listing to be duplicated in the title listing. This could have been done easily, but in the interest of putting the most information in the least space with the minimum redundancy, items for the title listing were purposely selected from those not included in the author listing."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"AS INDICATED in the last issue, the current issue includes several articles on computer applications of PERT and other management techniques. The full role or roles of “the computer” in management of Research, Development and Engineering (R, D and E) have yet to emerge."
"Today's manager is confronted with a paradox: within his organization there are “giant brains”, but still he is forced to make daily decisions without adequate knowledge of the “facts” of his enterprise. However, techniques are emerging which will permit a more efficient distribution of the tasks of decision making between man and machine and thus, soon executive capability will be significantly extended. In this paper, the management decision process is conceived as a double-looped, real-time, man-machine feedback system. The manager establishes status by a question and answer game. He also evaluates alternatives by making trial decisions and by instructing the computer to carry on suboptimization processes. Such a management system can be realized with the aid of the Man-Machine Communication Device introduced in this paper. The manager is enabled to use a digital computer as a problem solving tool. With the aid of a special keyboard he can direct a computer to execute computer routines whereupon the machine can immediately respond by visually displaying answers. As an illustration, the Program Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT) used in the U. S. Defense Department is discussed. It is shown that with the on-line man-machine system discussed in this paper, the manager will be able to examine a wide panorama of suboptimum alternatives and will arrive at a better decision than is possible today."
"This report describes a computerized method for obtaining useful manpower control data. The types of data obtained are described, factored samples are provided and sample uses made of the data are related. The most significant element of the control system is its ability to adjust the history of an organization so that it is directly applicable for controlling the operation of an organization as it is currently structured, and for making projections of anticipated manpower requirements."
"This report presents the results of applying basic management principles to the Airborne Long Range Input (ALRI) test program. The testing involved system integration of airborne electronic sensor and communication equipment with ground electronic data processing and computation equipment. The management of the test program coordinated the efforts of approximately ten industrial subcontractors to comply with requirements and procedures of the Air Force. The methods used to keep all personnel informed of the activities at the site, at the home office and at the management meetings with the Air Force are discussed. Some of the techniques appear to be simple and obvious, but precisely because of this, they are usually overlooked. Experience has shown that the implementation of these techniques is effective in preventing troublesome situations. Other techniques discussed include the methods of data documentation, the maintenance of administrative records, which are generally regarded as an unnecessary evil and, hence, injudiciously avoided, and the arrangement of schedules to obtain maximum performance and minimal disruption of testing. A listing is provided of those techniques that were considered important in the hope that they will be of use to system managers looking forward to a similar test program."
"In 1956, J. L. Kelly, Jr., gave a new interpretation of “information rate” as the maximum rate of exponential growth of a gambler's capital where best strategic use is made of “inside information.” An extension of this theory, applicable to investment or management problems, has been derived. Equations are obtained for determining the distribution of capital among n categories of investment and cash, such as to maximize the expected exponential rate of growth of capital. Some simplifications are also given that should permit the theory to be more readily applied to practical problems."
"POED (Performance Organization for Evaluation and Decision) is an evaluation and decision technique which permits computing performance of a device, equipment, system or system complex; compares and scores this performance against requirements or value judgments representing users' needs; and organizes results in a useful manner so that assessment of value is readily achieved. It is a basic ingredient for making decisions. POED permits comparing performance of dissimilar or competitive systems against several yardsticks representing different attributes of performance requirements. It also provides a means for determining sensitivity of a system to its constituents and for computing the confidence factor of results. Finally, POED provides a synthesis tool for optimizing systems in conceptual, design, operational, or retrofit stages."
"A dynamic simulation of a man-machine information system has been developed to provide analytical and evaluative aids in system design, implementation, and verification. This form of on-site simulation is called “Normative Exercising,” because of its two distinguishing characteristics: 1) specification in advance of preferred problem solutions; 2) guidance of player performance into paths which will lead to the preferred solution of the exercise problem. Real-time exercising of a system is accomplished by controlling the informational inputs to the system through a Simulation Control (SIMCON) team made up of nonplayers. Performance evaluation is obtained by comparing the actual events of the exercise with the normative solution paths. It is expected that Normative Exercising will lead to a methodological approach to the structure and manipulation of information in a command and control system as well as the human capacity to function as a problem-solver and decision-maker."
"The failure to understand the relationship between organizational setting and scientific accomplishment can result in structures that inhibit rather than promote effective research. Yet, relatively little of a factual nature is known about the effect of the increasingly complex personal and institutional structure within which research is conducted on the nature and quality of scientific work. The major barrier in obtaining such systematic evidence lies in the difficulty of developing techniques to quantitatively and qualitatively measure scientific accomplishment. The experience of the author's research group indicates that the use of summaries, in conjunction with the “panel” technique in which eminent authorities in given fields are used to evaluate scientific accomplishment, may provide a practical solution to the problem of qualitatively assessing recent research accomplishment."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE ARTICLES in this issue constitute a mixed bag. The majority deal with various aspects of the broad area of planning and control of projects and programs. The others, however, cover the areas of economic evaluation of R&D results, individual creativity, and organization of special projects."
"Some current efforts to solve the problem of evaluating the economic results of R&D are described and critically examined. The various existing techniques have been grouped according to three levels of evaluation: 1) the broad macrolevels of the economy or the industry, 2) the narrower level of the firm and 3) the sharpest level of the individual research project. General comments are made on the nature of a number of mathematical models that have been proposed for evaluation at the various levels. The need for additional work in this area is pointed out."
"In an attempt to identify test predictors of scientific creativity, two criteria of creativity were used: supervisors' ratings and number of publications. An interest questionnaire, a vocabulary test and nine tests of the Guilford Creativity Battery were administered to 131 research physical scientists. Of 42 test scores derived from the battery, four were significantly related to the rating criterion and seven to the publications criterion. The two criteria were not significantly related to each other and none of the predictor scores correlated significantly with both criteria. A composite predictor gave promise of increasing effective prediction of the ratings criterion, but not of the publications criterion."
"Management control and monitoring techniques employed in the ACCD-C Engineering Department of RCA are practical for effective and scientific management of all types of programs and provide positive assurance of meeting time, cost, and performance commitments. Application of these techniques is a self-imposed discipline that extends to all activities in the Engineering Department in a uniform manner and ensures proper “control awareness” by engineers and engineering supervision."
"Network integration is achieved through the use of a computer technique for condensing networks. The technique is such that it produces condensed networks which completely and accurately reflect the effect of the activities in the detailed network. In addition, computers can now be used to produce any level of summary network while requiring the maintenance of only the detailed task networks."
"Four tools are described as aids to efficient project management. They are 1) the employment of an effective type of organization, 2) the use of a comprehensive project manual, 3) explicit programming, and 4) timely feedback. These tools and their implementation for medium size programs are discussed."
"The progress function is a predictive model developed by the airframe industry in the 1930's. It is also called the “improvement curve” or the “learning curve.” It reflects the relationship between gross production output and the effect required to produce each unit of production. The history of these curves in the airframe industry is reviewed. Modifications of the basic function are examined. Seven major uses of progress curves by the aerospace industry are 1) cost estimates, 2) scheduling, 3) efficiency comparisons, 4) procurement and subcontracting, 5) facilities planning, 6) personnel planning and 7) long-range planning. An evaluation is made of current usage."
"The author describes the task group method of organizing the technical and administrative skills required for a complex systems design project. He illustrates by describing the application to the determination of the optimum B-70 Defensive Subsystem design."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE SPECIAL section on R, D, and E personnel in this issue is the second one on this subject in the TRANSACTIONS. The first, in the December, 1961 issue, contained articles on various aspects of evaluation and training. The one in this issue is mainly concerned with evaluation. Like the previous special sections, this one is made up of articles received in recent months which appeared to focus on an area of strong interest to readers of the TRANSACTIONS and is not intended as a statement of the “state of the art” on the subject or an exhaustive review of it. These special sections are intended to serve as convenient groupings of subject matter for ease in reference, storage, and later retrieval when a question in a particular area of R, D, and E management arises."
"This paper indicates that PERT has not been as successful as its potential actually warrants. It is suggested that the practical aspects of PERT have been neglected in favor of the theoretical aspects, and that as a result PERT implementation efforts have in many cases failed. Seven basic implementation and operation errors are identified and discussed as being the keys to PERT failures. In addition an implementation network is included which depicts the tasks and logic required for a successful PERT implementation."
"Using specific descriptive phrases about experiences, it is possible to classify a group of people into categories. The fewer the number of these experiences used in the classification, the less likely an individual's ¿personality¿ will be preserved. The greater the number of items involved, the greater the information processing-problem. This is the situation of the manpower administrator who in order to maintain individualities is forced to cope with quantities of information. One solution for the administrator is to transform his personnel information into a form compatible with the use of high-speed data processing equipment and take advantage of equipment's ability to perform complex operations with speed and skill. This requires that the information be descriptive enough to be meaningful and that it be organized so that it can be coded. This paper develops a technique for handling one segment of personnel information ¿ experience. The technique is to describe a person through information related to his work experience. The study covers the development of such an experience matrix and shows that such information can be reasonably classified in this form. Two factor analyses were carried out. The direct factor analysis developed factors of combinations of work experience which have a reasonable degree of independence. The inverse factor analysis because of the complex method of interpretation was less satisfactory."
"Thirty engineers sought a consulting psychologist's guidance regarding next steps to take in planning their careers. Although some were referred by their employers, each paid his own way and was dealt with confidentially. Each engineer was interviewed at length and tested on devices covering many aspects of ability and creativity, interest, and personality. A counseling session and written report followed. The findings and conclusions are presented with the needs of both the individual engineer and the engineering manager in mind."
"A mathematical model of a merit rating system is described in terms of linear equations. It is shown how some of the factors of the system can be evaluated by conventional operations with linear simultaneous equations."
"Two promotion systems are shown to differ in two steps of procedure: noticeability and merit. In one system the scientist must depend completely on being noticeable to be recommended and worthy to be promoted. In the other system these two steps are buttressed by periodic consideration and routine promotion for length of service. The general impact of this difference is that the former system results in more discrepancies between rank and responsibility or competence and is appraised as less satisfactory. The impact on careers shows less satisfaction with promotion chances and job security and a longer wait for promotion in the former system. Professional recognition is shown to be a way of coping with the system demands of being both noticeable and worthy. Some practical implications of this type analysis of reward systems are discussed."
"A mail survey was made of several characteristics of PERT technicians. Replies were received from 19 companies. Among the variables covered in the questionnaire were: age, salary, experience, and formal training."
"The author discusses the depreciation of the value of knowledge among scientists and engineers. Rates of growth in R & D are compared with more stable fields such as philosophy and law. Some implications for the careers of scientists and engineers and for company policy are discussed."
"THERE HAVE BEEN relatively few systematic empirical investigations of the behavior of Research and Development personnel. However, as the findings of sociologists and psychologists working in such areas as creativity, leadership, occupational values, and organizational change have been made available, the Transactions has tried to keep its readers posted on new developments through the publication of relevant articles. In accord with this policy, the present section has attempted to bring to Transactions readers summaries of recent research on researcher behavior with which they may not be familiar. Most of the studies summarized here were first published in professional sociology and psychology journals, although a few books and unpublished papers are also included."
"Because IEEE membership records were not consolidated at publication time, the membership progressions shown below arc those of IRE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes a V. H. F. radio system designed to provide communications for a Main Line railroad. It consists of 21 base stations, in 3 divisions; the stations in each division are connected by microwave channels to a District Dispatcher's office, and to a Hot Box Detection Center at one end of the line and communicating to Trains and Maintenance-of-Way crews."
"In looking over the titles of papers presented before various PGVC sessions, it is found that many of them are on antennas, noise, selective calling, transistors and test instruments with a scattering on many component items and then only a very few on user applications. Of this small group, most of them are on City/County, Police/Fire and Railroad systems but almost none on Highway, Forestry, Petroleum or Power applications. Perhaps the feeling is that there is nothing of interest in this area, since the user with a small amount of system planning sets up one or more base stations and installs mobile units in trucks and cars just as everyone else has done for many years. This may be good as generalizations go but it is contended that in power system work for instance, many novel applications are possible and there are many challenging problems in system design, in fact too many to cover here. Just to cite a few:"
"Mobile radio services in metropolitan areas suffer from congestion of relatively few channels. A necessary step toward maximum use of allocated channels is to provide access to some or to all of them by every mobile subscriber. A method for obtaining access to such a multiplicity of channels by relatively economic means, and thereby to obtain a trunking advantage, is discussed here. The channel generator makes use of two crystal-controlled oscillators, a modulator, a filter and a switch-controlled phase-locked oscillator. Coarse channel selection is obtained by means of a binary LC network. A fine tuning control, constant and independent of channel setting, avoids locking to adjacent unwanted freuqencies. A transistor sampling switch has been used as a reliable phase discriminator avoiding DC amplifiers. Potential problem areas are discussed."
"In designing commercial equipment destined for sale in a very competitive market, where cost is a keynote, the engineering approach adopted towards achieving reliability approach adopted from that for equipment where cost assumes secondary importance. The approach used in military equipment design cannot be employed as criteria for reliability here, since the majority of components available to the designer of such equipment have unknown life characteristics. The probability of failure of a device is the product of the individual life expectancies of all components, hence the overall reliability is considerably worse than that of the weakest component. The mathematical computation of a commercial equipment's reliability is not usually attempted by the designer, due to the lack of information available in respect to the life expectancy of most of the components used."
"Most of the mobile radio telephone systems now in use depend upon operator call-handling and require the mobile subscriber to work push-to-talk. In addition, although the mobile set may be equipped to operate on several channels, it can be selectively called on only one. If that one channel is busy, base-to-car calls are blocked even if other idle channels are available. All of these features have combined to make mobile telephone service less convenient and useful than wire-line telephone service, and this has seriously hampered its growth."
"Continued population growth and an increased trend toward urbanization has expanded the need for more and better service from our public safety agencies."
"Tone signaling, as authorized today by the F.C.C., allows use of a system of tones transmitted over radio to send and/or receive information from one point to another."
"Interest shown in Citizens Band Equipment has been growing at a phenomenal rate, to put it mildly. There are roughly two classes of equipment allowed by the Federal Communications Commission; those with a power input of 100 MW or less, requiring no license, and the equipment with over 100 MW input to a maximum of 5 Watts input. The latter requires an FCC License as set forth in Part 19 of the FCC Rules and Regulations. Until recently, most hand-held transistorized equipment has been in 100 MW License Free Class, generally restricting useful range to about one mile or less. The price of high frequency Transistors capable of 1 to 2 Watts power input is now economically feasible, making it possible to design Walkie-Talkie Equipment with consistent performance of 2 to 5 miles or more."
"The paper describes improved methods and equipment for voice frequency amplification in two and four-wire circuits. Signaling, hybrid coils, loaded and non-loaded circuits are discussed, Indicated trends to four-wire circuits and fine gauge cable application has important engineering aspects."
"Silicon controlled rectifiers and time-ratio regulation techniques have been combined in a new power supply to provide increased reliability in railroad-radio service. Because of unusual environmental conditions, railroad locomotive and caboose radio equipment has been plagued with a high failure rate. These conditions include a wide variation in supply voltages, transient voltage surges, vibration, shock and temperature extremes. This paper describes two-way radio equipment that has been designed specifically for greater reliability in service on locomotives and cabooses. In the power supply, silicon controlled rectifiers are used in a new full-wave circuit in which both the pulse width and repetition rate of the stepped waveform are changed in order to maintain constant output voltages. Choke input filters are used to smooth the rectified secondary voltages and produce tine-averaged values of the pulses. Design considerations and performance data are discussed. This design demonstrates the advantages of applying time-ratio regulation and controlled rectifier inverter techniques to railroad vehicular-communication power supplies. These techniques can be extended to D.C. to D.C. power supplies for other applications."
"The anode dissipation of the power amplifier tube is one of the largest sources of heat in vehicular communication equipment. If this heat is not removed from temperature sensitive areas of this equipment, performance will be adversely affected. This paper describes circuits which fulfill both the electrical and thermal requirements of vehicular power amplifiers. The advantages and disadvantages of radiation forced air and conduction cooling are contrasted and it is shown that a properly designed conduction cooled system can combine the advantages of all cooling methods. The design and performance of practical conduction cooled circuits at the 100 watt power level from 50 to 1200 Mc is discussed. Data covering pertinent thermal properties of insulators and metals commonly used in conduction systems are given."
"Because more and more people communicate with one another, various frequency bandwidths have become congested. In the future there will be growing need for more efficient utilization of bandwidth. To reduce this congestion the tendency has been to use smaller transmission bandwidths. This is an answer in some of the cases, but in others this is definitely not the way toward maximum spectrum utilization. It is the purpose of this paper to draw attention to places where the wide bandwidth transmissions should be used and then to indicate the type of performance that can be expected from such a system."
"By extending the conventional small signal theory of diffusion currents in transistors to include third order effects, intermodulation is shown to result from modulation of the input admittance and forward transfer admittance. A relationship, which is independent of the transistor parameters, between the intermodulation figure of merit and the input terminal voltage is analytically developed and experimentally verified."
"In order to couple up to twelve 250 watt V.H.F. Transmitters to a single antenna, it was necessary to design an antenna which could carry the combined power of 3 kw and have a low VSWR over the 150–175 Mc band. The main Qualities required of this antenna were good pattern and impedance bandwidth with a gain of at least 6 db over a dipole, excellent RF connections for low intermodulation and high efficiency, solid dc grounding for lightning protection, and rugged construction for long life under all probable weather conditions. The bandwidth and gain requirements were met by using four broadband colinear coaxial dipoles with a centre-to-centre spacing of one wavelength. These dipoles were fed in parallel with equal lengths of teflon insulated coaxial cable. This particular feed system, which employs only two matching sections, was chosen for its simplicity, from several types all of which met the basic requirements. The use of conical chokes between the dipoles kept the side-lobe level to about ten db below the main lobe. Without these chokes the side-lobe level would have been unduly high, which is often the case with full wave spacing, so that a closer spacing with more radiating elements would have been necessary. This would have resulted in a more complex feed system and a much costlier product."
"This paper presents a development of equivalent circuits for large-signal varactor harmonic generators, doublers through sextuplers inclusive, employing abrupt-junction varactor diodes. Using the results of the development a 2m (m = 1,2,3, ….) multiplier equivalent circuit is obtained. The equivalent circuits that are developed take into account the circuit and varactor losses. The development is presented in a manner that will enable the reader to very easily expand this paper and obtain equivalent circuits for higher order multipliers. The equivalent circuits can be used as an effective design tool as well as an aid for obtaining an insight into the mechanism of harmonic generation."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"It is argued that the engineering profession has not yet succeeded in divesting itself of a public image which showed the typical engineer as attired in knee boots and corduroys, looking through a transit. Engineers have not informed the high schools of the challenges inherent in the new science-based and mathematically based engineering programs at many of our colleges. They have not told the high schools that an engineer will, today, work more with his head than with his hands, that ideas are his products, and that his constant companion will be an electronic computer, not a handbook. This is why engineers must present their best representatives as salesmen, to work on an equal footing with the salesmen for the other professions - the doctors, the lawyers, the dentists - who appeal for the same high level of intelligence required by engineering. Somehow, engineers must convince the high-IQ student that engineers are mathematical, are of highest intellect, that they have opportunities to solve problems - that engineering encompasses a very broad field from the engineering of the civil consultant on one side to the engineering-science-research interface on the other - and that no single voice yet serves as spokesman for the engineering profession as a whole."
"The engineering profession faces severe challenges in basic technological problems whose solution involves the behavioral and social sciences, and affects the very structure of society. As a consequence, the engineering profession must cast aside the last vestiges of its evolution from a craft and take on the full responsibilities of a learned profession"
"The impact of pooling on power system planning is manifold. Pooling means a move to bigger units, nuclear plants, mine-mouth generation, and 500-kv transmission grids. The business relations between utilities and manufacturers are changing, and new areas for joint activity are opening up for them in system planning and EHV design"
"Digital telemetering eliminates manual meter reading and provides up-to-date readings from unattended stations. The simplest application involves a transmitter-receiver pair for each interchange point, with the received data indicated on a visual display unit or typed out. Totalizing, if desired, can be done by means of an electrically operated adding machine"
"Narrowing the gap between our rapidly advancing knowledge and current practice is essential, but will take years. Perhaps the quickest and most effective way of achieving this goal is to embark on a formal program of updating and reorienting the skills of the most promising men now active in the fields of industry and education"
"Development of electric propulsion engines should shift the emphasis from the question of feasibility to the problems of efficiency, lifetime, and reliability. As flight testing continues, the electrical engineer will gradually replace the physicist in the development of better instrumentation, electrical designs, and electric power supplies"
"Progress has been made in solving many of the system frequency control problems in the Pacific Northwest. Expected eventual benefits include the opportunity to sell power outside the immediate region; the cooperative regulation of frequency, in which each control area adjusts generation to match its own load fluctuations; and perhaps larger power flows on some internal tie lines, as permitted by a reduction in power fluctuations"
"Electromagnetic radiation from a signal injected into a cable is analyzed with a view to locating underground power cable by detecting the radiation above ground. There exists an optimum frequency band for each cable type, despite the fact that the metal shield surrounding the cable suggests the use of as low a frequency as possible. Equipment consisting of a simple 50-kc mains-operated signal generator and a portable transistorized detector unit that can locate cable through ten feet of soil is described"
"Details have been revealed of a small but potent solid propellant rocket (pitch control motor), which will share the responsibility for safeguarding the lives of America's lunar astronauts. The rocket is called a pitch control motor; it will team with its much larger and stronger fellow lifeguard, the launch escape motor, to hurl the Apollo spacecraft and its three occupants to safety in event of a malfunction during launch phases of NASA's lunar exploration mission."
"Two new General Motors domestic freight locomotives the 2,500-hp GP-35 and the 5,000-hp DD-35 have been designed to provide United States railroads with greater locomotive performance and operating economy."
"Inexpensive hydrocarbon fuels such as propane and natural gas, and even gasoline and diesel oil, can be combined with air to generate electric power directly in a new fuel cell, recently demonstrated by General Electric Research Laboratory. Long operating life is expected."
"The function of a high-speed tracking spectrometric telescope is to probe the trails of man-made meteors for clues to the solution of pressing problems in missile defense and space-capsule re-entry. MIT's Lincoln Laboratory has designed and built a 48-inch high-speed-tracking spectrometric telescope capable of locking onto the elusive glow from a small, faint, fast-moving target, and of tracking such a target accurately and automatically at high speeds. It can make numerous detailed quantitative optical analyses and measurements of the reentry glow during the few seconds that it exists."
"A high-speed electronic system that can identify and record railroad freight and passenger cars at speeds up to 60 mph offers railroads a method of improving operating efficiency at reduced costs."
"The first direct evidence of an unusual motion of atoms in a crystal has been discovered by scientists of the Westinghouse Research Laboratories."
"Stanford University scientists are preparing to build a one-foot experimental model of a new type of atom smasher that takes advantage of the phenomenon of superconductivity. If it is successful, a different kind of high-energy electron accelerator can be added to the arsenal of atom-smashing machines now being used throughout the world to probe the innermost corners of the atom."
"IBM recently demonstrated the transmission of audio information over a light beam generated by an injection laser. The injection laser is a relatively simple device that converts electric energy into light waves. The successful experiment involved transmission of music and voice signals over an infrared light beam. While this demonstration involved audio transmission, IBM engineers pointed out that space, military, business, and scientific data could also be sent over injection laser beams in suitably developed systems."
"While educational institutions have been experimenting on a small scale with electronic teaching machines, a business institution has started using a nationwide network of them. There are 900 computer-controlled “teachers” the size of desk tops, in full operation, located in 89 cities throughout the United States. All are connected to a central electronic computer in Denver by high-speed telephone lines."
"General Electric and the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn announce a fouryear graduate engineering course aimed at increasing the effectiveness of engineering education and bolstering the future position of American industry in world markets."
"An addition to the University of Washington's Nuclear Physics Research Center the Van de Graaff Nuclear Accelerator Building is now taking shape on a hillside adjoining the existing cyclotron group of buildings on the university's campus. A new type of Van de Graaff accelerator, with three stages of acceleration, will be installed in the new building. The three-stage, positive-ion accelerator and auxiliary equipment will be used to provide a precisely controlled source of high-energy charged particles necessary for advanced research and study in nuclear physics."
"The age factor is Beheved to have a bearing on man's abihty to tolerate stress; therefore revealing data on how brain wave activity changes with age is welcome information. A miniature-sized, lightweight, four-channel electrocephalographic system has been developed for the Federal Aviation Agency Medical Service that permits the subject to carry on his normal working activities, completely unhampered in his movements. Recordings can be secured of brain wave activity of a pilot under in-flight conditions where he may be subject to stress, and the EEG studies would assist in evaluating the age-stress relation."
"Nuclear fuel rods with molten centers half as hot as the sun's surface are successfully operating in advanced experiments at General Electric's Vallecitos Atomic Laboratory, Pleasanton, Calif."
"Astronomers have likened the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum which stretches from short-wave gamma rays at one end and the long radio waves at the other to an infinitesimally small window looking out on the universe. Until the last decade, nearly everything we knew about the planets, stars, and galaxies came to us borne on light waves in this narrow, visible portion of the spectrum, but our small window is continually opening wider. At the Harvard College Observatory, astronomers, who have studied the stars through the telescope, the spectroscope, and the photograph, have recently been developing a whole new battery of electronic instruments for searching the heavens telescopes, cameras, radiometers, spectrometers, and spectrographs. The laboratories of Harvard College Observatory, associated with the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, have become modern electronic workshops. Three of the new electronic instruments each peer through a different window in the electromagnetic spectrum: the infrared, the far ultraviolet, and the radio."
"The cover of the June issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING represents a method of converting nuclear heat directly into electricity in one step. The thermionic converter, shown being placed into a nuclear test reactor, operates on the same principle as the power vacuum tube and converts the nuclear heat directly into electricity with no moving mechanical parts."
"Army scientists have developed a “trap door” electronic picture tube that allows them to take improved photos of a video display, and at the same lime keep the face of the tube in clear view."
"The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation has recently made a $5 million grant to the Massachuseus Institute of Technology for the establishment of a center to be known as Center for Advanced Engineering Study. The Center will give practicing engineers in industry and professors of engineering from other schools the opportunity to attend MIT for a period of formal study to master the new sciences which have emerged since their early education and to work at the frontiers of engineering. This major addition to MIT's School of Engineering is said to be the first of its kind. Its establishment comes in response to a national need for more engineering leaders who can exploit the most modern concepts of science."
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Translated issues of three Russian publications, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Telecommunications1∗, and Radio Engineering2 and two Japanese publications, Journal of the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan3 and Journal of the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan4 are published by IEEE with the cooperation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department† 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes author's summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60 cents each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"For additional information on any meeting listed, write either to the person designated for that meeting or to the following address: Meetings Inquiries, institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Scientific papers from scholars and engineers around the world have arrived in Toronto and are now being sifted and considered for inclusion in the Canadian Electronics Conference to be held in Toronto, September 30-October 2."
"The American Federation of Information Processing Societies has selected the Las Vegas Convention Center, Las Vegas, Nev., for its Fall Joint Computer Conference, to take place November 12–14."
"The 6th Annual Materials Handling Conference, sponsored this year jointly by the Materials Handling Subcommittee of IEEE and the Materials Handling Engineering Div. of ASME, will be held October 14–16 at the Chamberlain Hotel, Fort Monroe, Va."
"The International Conference on Microwaves, Circuit Theory and Information Theory will be held at Akasaka Prince Hotel in Tokyo, Japan, September 7–11, 1964."
"Plans have been completed for the 5th Electrical Insulation Conference at the Conrad Hilton Hotel in Chicago, September 16–19. More than 3,000 design engineers and others interested in electrical and electronic insulation materials and their applications are expected to attend the technical and trade sessions."
"The Recognition Awards Committee of IEEE is seeking nominees for the IEEE Education Medal. The award will be presented at the 1964 IEEE International Convention."
"The bulk of the 9th Annual Conference on Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, scheduled November 12–15 in Atlantic City, N.J., at the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Hotel, will be devoted to the formal technical sessions. But, as in previous years, the conference will also sponsor an exhibit of magnetic products and instrumentation."
"TO DEFINE IS TO LIMIT — One fine morning in the Cretaceous period of geologic history, a fish came to the surface near the shore of his lake. On shore he noted that a meeting was being held with a dinosaur, a tree-climbing rodent, and a small bird in attendance. The fish, remaining near the surface, decided to join the group."
"The growing application of nuclear energy to the generation of electric power makes it desirable for engineers to acquire an understanding of nuclear reactors. Although the nuclear reactor is a relatively new device, many analogies familiar to the engineer exist that may help acquaint him with reactor theory. It is worth noting that solutions to problems in reactor theory were obtained before the discovery of fission as solutions to other problems in physics and engineering1"
"This is an account of the development of the art of electrical precipitation from the efforts of the early electrical pioneers to its present fruition as a going industry and a heavily endowed research organization. Its development once again points up the role that curiosity for its own sake plays in the growth of science and technology"
"To meet the higher loads forecast for the future, a utility system can increase its generating capacity by adding units of several different types. A procedure has been developed for determining the optimum proportion of each type that would result in the lowest total annual revenue requirements"
"“For meritorious achievements in the design, understanding and application of electric apparatus; more specifically for analyses of complex problems involved in rotating machinery, relays, regulators, ground detectors, saturable reactors, industrial control, magnetic amplifiers and computers; and solving these problems by the invention of new and novel forms of such apparatus as well as conceiving new combinations thereof.”"
"The history of the Lamme Medal is the history of achievement and dedication in the electrical manufacturing industry. The award had an illustrious beginning — because of the nature of its founder — and it has had an equally illustrious history because of the high level of accomplishment shown by its recipients in the ensuing years."
"Each man who receives the Lamme Medal has already established a place for himself in engineering history by his contributions to our technical knowledge and, in turn, to society itself. The award of the Medal itself is, therefore, simply a means of honoring the individual by a formal recognition of the established fact."
"There is something very fitting about this award being given here in Toronto. For us Pennsylvanians who care for fishing or boating, when we get one foot across the river or the lakes into Canada there is something rewarding about the whole deal. Our blood begins to run a little faster as we sniff the fresh breezes of Georgian Bay or the Lake Country of Ontario and Quebec. In fact, it gives us a good feeling even at home to know that we are, after all, only one day's travel from the 30,000 Island section of Georgian Bay, which is one of the most fantastically beautiful cruising and boating areas of the world. The only enigma to me is why my boss, Mr. Monteith, who was born and raised here in Ontario, ever left this country in the first place."
"Direct measurement of shaft angular acceleration may be made by means of a conventional drag-cup tachometer operated as an accelerometer. The tachometer is supplied with direct current, and provides a voltage that is proportional to acceleration. The theory of operation and a number of interesting applications of this device are discussed"
"A transducer for converting power system frequency deviations to a millivolt potential is described. The millivolt potential may be used to record system frequency on a null-balance recorder and may be used directly as an input to a load frequency control system. The requirements of power system frequency measurements and the principles and circuitry to obtain the necessary resolution, accuracy, and stability are discussed"
"Automation has come to the warship's combat fnformation center (CIC) with sophisticated electronic displays replacing plots made by seamen with grease pencils."
"Control tapes for general-purpose machine tools are usually prepared on tapepunching machines or computers in a separate room, often by a specially trained person. A significant advance appears to have been made recently in numerical control — the automation ot short-run production — with the introduction of an automatic tape punch. The new device enables the machinist to generate control tapes without leaving his post as he works at the automated machine tool."
"A high-speed, automated system for microfilming, indexing, storing, and retrieving microfilmed documents can locate any one of up to 250,000 microfilmed engineering documents and produce a full-sized copy in less than two minutes. The system was developed by the Haliicrafters Co., Chicago, Ill."
"A rapid-fire laser for a tracking system capable of finding and following airborne targets has been developed by General Electric. With further development, the system could be extended to tracking targets in space."
"A research group at the University of Texas is concerned with the use of millimeter radio waves. To study the transmission through the total atmosphere, the radiations from the sun and the moon have been examined at various frequencies throughout the millimeter radio region, and it became apparent that millimeter wavelengths provided a critical frequency range for radio astronomy studies; they lie in the transition region between conventional radio astronomy and optical astronomy. The new radio telescope at The University of Texas exemplifies this transition; it is the first instrument housed in the type of dome used for the optical telescopes, and the precision of its surface exceeds that required for longer wavelength radio telescopes."
"A high-resolution radar capable of identifying moving or stationary vehicles in a forest has been developed. The new technique, called Short Pulse Radar, will be capable of discriminating between adjacent objects, separated in range by only a few inches. It permits the generation, radiation, reception, and display of microwave impulses lasting a subnanosecond (a fraction of one billionth of a second)."
"Sufficient fuel is now available to the Northern States Power Company's Pathfinder atomic power plant, Sioux Falls, S. Dak., to bring the first commercial power reactor with integral superheater to criticality. It is designed for a heat power level capability of about 164,000 kw in the boiler region with a recirculation rate of 60,000 gpm (gallons per minute). Steam generation rate will be about 600,000 pounds per hour at an operating pressure of 600 psig and a 489 F temperature in the boiler region."
"A portable electric generator that can be operated with a variety of fuels common to many parts of the world, such as wood, coal, charcoal, grain, husks, grass, and animal dung, may be the end result of research now under way at Battelle Memorial Institute, Columbus, Ohio. The research is being conducted for the U.S. Army Electronics Research and Development Laboratory located at Fort Monmouth, N. J. The program is concerned with establishing the feasibility of developing a multifueled heat source capable of being coupled to a thermal energy converter delivering 150 watts of electric power. Such a device is expected to prove valuable to military or Peace Corps personnel in isolated areas."
"A low-cost and long-life fuel cell for efficient on-site conversion of natural gas to electricity in both home and industry is being developed at the Institute of Gas Technology (IGT), affiliate of Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago."
"Electrical energy, obtained by placing appropriate electrodes in different parts of an animal has been used to power a specially built radio transmitter in a study of bioelectrogenesis, or the production of electricity in living organisms."
"A one-pound laser device in the experimental stage can send ten voice messages for more than a mile over an invisible infrared beam. It shows promise for use in space exploration, on a battlefield or an aircraft carrier, and in the building construction industry."
"New York World's Fair visitors will ride up to the highest point in the exposition, the top of the 200-foot tower of the New York State Pavilion, in two observation elevators that look more like space vehicles than conventional lifts."
"At the request of a number of scientific societies, the National Academy of Sciences has undertaken an appraisal of the policies of Federal agencies governing the administration of their grants and contracts in support of fundamental research, as seen from the point of view of the scientific community."
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"OTS REPORTS. Tfie following publications have been made available to the public by the Office of Technical Services. Order reports from OTS, V.S. Dept. of Commerce, Washington 25, D.C."
"Translated issues of three Russian publications, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Telecommunications1∗, and Radio Engineering2 and two Japanese publications, Journal of the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan3 and Journal of the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan∗ are published by IEEE with the cooperation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department† 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes author's summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60 cents each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Please order by number and send remittance to IEEE Order Department, Box A. Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"Advertisement."
"IEEE members were recently honored by professional societies for their contributions to the engineering profession."
"For additional information on any meeting listed, write either to the person designated for that meeting or to the following address: Meetings Inquiries, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N.Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Since 1935, when the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) recommended usage of the mks or meter-kilogram-second system throughout electrical engineering, we have been breaking our ties with the English units. We now find electrical engineering students emerging from college fully conversant with the metric quantities and their derivatives, and essentially bimetric in ability to convert and converse in both metric and English systems. Those graduates emerge into, and we work in, a metric world in which England, Canada, and the United States remain as English-system islands. A change to the metric system has often been urged in the United States, and we venture that the change will begin within our lifetime. If we are to make the change complete by the year 2000, we must start now. On another matter, the author also notes that the design for class B power supplies seems so thoroughly ground into our systems and handbooks as to be almost untouchable by present trends to solid-state devices. The input-choke form of filter circuit should be redundant when silicon diodes capable of handling repeated current peaks are available. Yet, that seems not the case. The author wonders if the inertia to change is due to the age of the electronics engineers who design such circuits."
"Differences between electric equipment requirements of pumped storage and conventional hydroelectric plants lie chiefly in starting techniques, ratings, and additional control and protective features for the pumping mode of operation. Special consideration is also needed in the design of the generator-motor, the excitation system, and the relaying equipment"
"Difficulties encountered in providing an adjustable, regulated d-c supply for adjustable-frequency inverters have led to the use of complex compensating and regulating circuitry. However, a high-power d-c/d-c semiconductor inverter, which operates from an unregulated d-c supply, can regulate faster than the highest-frequency ripple current imposed by the inverter and fulfills all the requirements of an inverter power supply"
"Certain high-strength low-alloy steels form a self-protecting oxide film that permits their exposure to the atmosphere in the bare or uncoated condition. These steels are finding applications ranging from transmission towers to distribution transformers on electric power systems. A detailed discussion is presented of how one of these steels can be used to advantage for outside structures, particularly in those areas where maintenance costs of galvanized and painted structures are high"
"Sheet and foil windings are finding increasing use in apparatus ranging in size from small automotive components to medium-sized power transformers. The growing popularity of such windings lies in certain electrical and mechanical advantages over conventional helically wound coils. In addition, sheet conductor material can now be economically produced with a high degree of dimensional accuracy, with smooth and burr-free edges, and free to a high degree from dirt and metallic dust particles"
"High cost, formerly a major deterrent to buried telephone plant, has become less so, following post-war development of tools and materials such as PIC cable. Increasing public intolerance of aerial plant, in the interest of appearance, points to the universal use of underground systems by 1970. Tools, materials, and methods used to bury telephone plant economically are described"
"As the trend toward higher voltages, use of large conductors, multiple conductors, and longer spans continues, the need for a better insulating element in suspension insulators than the currently used porcelain is becoming apparent. A modified epoxy-type polymer with a fiber-glass core used in the design of a developmental suspension insulator is described"
"Current interest in man-machine systems and communication has stimulated efforts to explore information transfer at the man-machine interface. The myoelectric effect, a result of muscle cell contraction, is currently under investigation. The exploitation of an artifically derived myoelectric code shows promise as an aid to the solution of many problems in this area"
"Scientists at the Sperry Rand Research Center, Sudbury, Mass., have combined photodetection and parametric amplification in a single small semiconductor diode that can boost by 100 times the receiver sensitivity of laser space communication and radar systems."
"Present mechanical stylus equipment used by radio engineers and scientists for recording signal traces (like those shown on an oscilloscope) record oscillations at the rate of about 100 per second. By motion picture photography they can record higher frequencies on paper, but the process is expensive and time consuming."
"A $78,200 grant from the National Science Foundation has been awarded to the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn to design, build, and equip a new type of electronics laboratory which will represent an experiment in the teaching of communications theory and methods on both the undergraduate and graduate levels."
"Off the coast of Norway in one of the great fishing areas facing the North Sea, the island of R&oslah;st with its 800 inhabitants now anticipates a new way of life. On July 9 last, a mood of celebration prevailed on the island; school children carried balloons to the docks, and the people gathered to welcome the cable ship Stanelco, out of Oslo, carrying a submarine high-tension cable to link R&oslah;st to the mainland by bringing to the fisherman population inexpensive electricity, and thus opening the doors to industry."
"Two physicists at Western Reserve University have reported the discovery of a new magnetic effect in metals, predicted by one of them only six weeks earlier. The new effect is the periodic variation in the length of a metal crystal at very low temperatures, as an applied magnetic field is gradually changed. Dr. B. S. Chandrasekhar, professor of physics, predicted on purely theoretical grounds the possibility of observing the effect, in a note published in the August 15 issue of Physics Letters. The experiment was performed by Dr. Ben A. Green, Jr., assistant professor of physics and Dr. Chandrasekhar several weeks later in the John Schoff Millis Science Center at Western Reserve University, and the first observation of the effect was reported by them in the October 1 issue of Physical Review Letters, a journal published by The American Physical Society."
"Peak powers of over 50 watts have been achieved with a new pulsed gas laser at Martin-Orlando research laboratories, Baltimore, Md., and outputs in the kilowatt range may be imminent. The achievement of such output levels brings the gas laser from a low-power laboratory device into the intermediate power range with practical use as a system component for auto-tracking optical radars, reconnaissance systems, and missile guidance application. The Martin research effort is aimed at the development of optical radar."
"An instrument normally used to plot the earth's magnetic field is being used to wrest tightly held secrets from Davy Jones' locker."
"A 70-kmc traveling-wave maser that uses a superconducting magnet for the applied field is being developed by the Westinghouse Electric Corp. The superconducting magnet, now in use, provides the high-field uniformity that is important to high-gain maser operation of broad bandwidth, high frequency and high sensitivity. The new maser device, with a pump frequency of 118 kmc, will be used to investigate advanced radiometers, radar, and communications equipment."
"Tropospheric scatter is a microwave communication technique that employs a powerful transmitter and a large directional antenna to aim a beam of radio waves over the horizon. A portion of the signal is reflected off the troposphere a turbulent layer of atmosphere extending up to six miles above the earth into distant highly sensitive receivers, where it is amplified in strength and retransmitted to the next station."
"The magnetic field of the human heart has been detected by two engineers at Syracuse University who describe their experiments in an article published in the July issue of American Heart Journal. Although the measuring instrument, called a magnetocardiograph, was developed primarily as a research tool, it may eventually find its way into the clinic."
"A plutonium-fueled nuclear reactor for the first time has produced useful amounts of electricity. The power was generated recently in the Experimental Breeder Reactor no. 1 (EBR-I) at the Atomic Energy Commission's (AEC) National Reactor Testing Station in Idaho."
"Commercial production is under way of a practical superconducting material for fabricating high-field (100-kilogauss) magnets. The material, called NIOSTAN, has been under development for about three years, in the laboratories of the National Research Corp., a subsidiary of Norton Co."
"A technique that may eventually enable Cape Canaveral engineers to eliminate those nerve-wracking moments of radio silence when astronauts re-enter the earth's atmosphere has been discovered by a Cornell University research team."
"From two surveys of power and electric equipment in South America, it is apparent that a potential market exists in Colombia and in Ecuador for U.S. manufacturers of heavy electrical equipment."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"Translated issues of three Russian publications, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Telecommunications1, and Radio Engineering2 and two Japanese publications, Journal of the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan3 and Journal of the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan4 are published by IEEE with the cooperation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department† 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING publishes author's summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60 cents each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Please order by number and send remittance to IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Papers for presentation at the first Space Congress, scheduled for April 20–22 at Cocoa Beach, Fla., are solicited. All new and projected aspects of space science will be covered under the theme “Where Are We Going In Space.”"
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for IEEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion."
"The IEEE Transactions on Electronic Computers will devote a special issue to the subject of languages for computers. This issue was originally announced for June 1964, but it has been decided to postpone the special issue until August 1964. This will allow prospective authors time to prepare and submit papers. The new deadline date for submission of papers for this issue will be January 1, 1964."
"A tentative technical program has been announced for the 5th IEEE Western Technical Conference, scheduled for November 4 in Los Angeles."
"For additional information on any meeting listed, write either to the person designated for that meeting or to the following address: Meetings Inquiries, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N.Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement: Modern BUSS or Fusetron fuses."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Executive Committee of the AIEE Board of Directors recommended the Members listed for transfer to the grade of Fellow by special letter ballot as of December 21."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Changes and improvements in a-c and d-c transmission techniques and in system requirements provided the incentive jor a new review of the relative suitability of a-c and d-c for extra-high-voltage overhead transmission. Results of this study show that d-c continues to have disadvantages that re strict its use, for EHV overhead applications, to point-to-point transmission of power over distances in excess of 750 to 900 miles"
"“For meritorious achievement in engineering, education, management, and development of young engineers.”"
"It is a distinct honor and a pleasure to be able to share today in the tribute which you are paying to a distinguished engineer."
"The need for an additional 3 million kva of short-circuit capacity for a new circuit breaker laboratory was met by the construction of a 3,600-rpm generator with very low reactance. The general philosophy of designing for low reactance, which led to the two-pole design, is discussed and the various electrical and mechanical features of the generator are described"
"Machine programs and sophisticated hardware systems have been described that attempt to mechanize various problem-solving and perceptual abilities typically regarded as human. A few modestly intelligent machines have been produced. However, many of the most interesting problems, under direct machine attack with available concepts and hardware, are unyielding. Some of the problems and successes are reviewed and future trends discussed. One promising interim solution is the use of cooperative man-automaton combinations"
"A magnetic d-c ratio device has been developed that is capable of attaining accuracies approaching 1 part per million. The operating characteristics and some of the design problems are discussed, and construction details of an experimental model, rated at 4,000 ampere-turns and capable of handling ratios up to 400 to 1, are given. The use of this device for the scaling of fundamental resistance standards is proposed"
"The two huge communication systems-one for voice and one for digital transmission-are kept from being mutually supportive by language differences in directing codes. This block may be removed by the proper choice of message-directing codes usable by both systems without the necessity for intricate translating gear. Some of these code differences are discussed and possible solutions to the problem are suggested"
"A new concept is presented of more flexible instrumentation for power systems. A group of individual transducers is used for measuring the usual electric quantities and temperatures, each producing a high-level d-c output suitable for either analog or digital readout. Conventional d-c mechanisms are used in the end devices, eliminating the need for more complex mechanisms"
"Because of the increased efficiency made possible by narrower beam widths at visible-light frequencies, laser communication systems have certain advantages over conventional radio systems. However, unless elaborate and costly precision tracking gear is used, extremely narrow beam widths prohibit high reliability of reception. The 8- to 13-micron infrared range is considered to be optimum for space communications"
"It is announced that a large electronic simulator that provides realistic \"aerial combat\" experience for a new breed of airmen - electronic warfare officers - has been developed for the US Air Force. Since last April, electronic warfare officers of the US Strategic Air Command (SAC) have \"flown missions\" in the new training system, learning electronic countermeasure (ECM) techniques to defend their B-52 global bombers. Flights of up to 2,000 miles have been simulated through realistically duplicated hostile radar and missile-attacking environments. The electronic simulator that makes this possible fills a 28- by 30-foot room with a battery of signal generators, control networks, jammers and receivers, as well as an exact replica of the B-52's ooerational electronic warfare station. Also included is an array of controls and display panels used by an instructor to synthetically create \"dangerous\" situations and controlled malfunctions."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Radio Engineering,∗ and Telecommunications∗ are published by IEEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department,∗∗ 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60¬ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement: THE MEAKER COMPANY."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities at Sandia Corp."
"Advertisement."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Salient features of the electric system for the Peach Bottom nuclear power plant include a variation on the normal unit-transformer scheme, effective application of the principle of duality for enhanced reliability of essential auxiliaries, and a unique utilization of main turbine — generator coastdown power for emergency-shutdown cooling. Peach Bottom is the prototype plant for the high-temperature gas-cooled reactor concept, in which steam conditions of 1,450 psi and 1,000 F are attained"
"In the sense of adapting a system to people, the study of biological and psychological phenomena can be very important. However, the author is opposed to the whole concept of designing machines to imitate biological systems. A more sensible approach is to study the abilities and needs of humans for the purpose of designing machines to serve them"
"A new titanium — ceramic tube is capable of providing up to 100 times the power output of previous triodes in the X-band region. R-f oscillator outputs as high as 4 watts with efficiencies up to 12 per cent are obtainable at 8 gc. The tubes, constructed with built-in tunable output resonators, can be inserted directly across a waveguide, making use of only two bypass capacitors and a contact wire for the grid return"
"Static inverters of up to 100 kva have been built and units up to 800 kva are being designed. These devices — generally in smaller sizes — are suitable for converting direct current from batteries to alternating current for emergency loads or for continuous power sources for essential a-c loads. Typical applications, battery considerations, application problems, and available units are discussed"
"In recent years, solid-state sensors have entered the field of industrial instrumentation, but their adaptability has been slow. However, as high-speed digital computers are used for gathering and digesting process data, the need for improved sensing techniques becomes critical. Existing solid-state devices can meet some of the need; it is hoped those devices still under development will alleviate the remaining difficulties"
"From an experimental study of the motional electromotive force, the author has evolved a technique of rotating contactors applied to a conducting cylinder in a nonuniform magnetic field. When this method of sliding brush pick-offs is applied to a conducting flat disk, interesting possibilities become apparent. Alternating currents that have their source in a motionally developed emf can be controlled mechanically as to amplitude, frequency, and waveform"
"The mechanism of lightning-stroke formation is reviewed, with emphasis on those aspects of particular interest to the transmission-line engineer. The relation between the return-stroke current and the velocity of its head is shown to be a function of the speed with which energy can be fed into the return-stroke channel to achieve the necessary conductivity"
"Negative resistance may be defined by a driving-point characteristic that satisfies the relationship dv/di <0. The salient characteristic of the current-controlled device described is the generation of a relatively linear region of negative resistance that is symmetrical around the voltage abscissas. Since the characteristic is symmetrical, the device is bilateral with respect to current and hence requires no d-c biasing for any assumed operating point"
"To help overcome the present crisis in electrical engineering education — a crisis of curriculum content and methods of presentation — full use should be made of special demonstrations and devices that reduce the time for comprehension of the basic engineering principles. Some examples are illustrated and discussed"
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Radio Engineering,∗ and Telecommunications∗ are published by IEEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department,∗∗ 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60 each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"For additional information on any meeting listed, write either to the person designated for that meeting or to the following address: Meetings Inquiries, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"The Executive Committee of the AIEE Board of Directors recommended the Members listed for transfer to the grade of Fellow. Note: Until AIEE and IRE membership records"
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The richness of the electronic dowry brought to the IEEE by AIEE may come as a surprise to some readers. The extent of AIEE's participation in the electronics field is indicated by means of a brief historical summary of electrical communication from 1884 to 1930, plus a tabulation of recent committees and subcommittees, papers published, and conferences sponsored"
"All objects with temperatures above absolute zero emit electromagnetic radiation, most of which falls in the infrared region of 0.1 to 100 microns. An energized resistive circuit is a source of thermal infrared radiation because its power is dissipated as heat. Consequently, any change in the normal temperature of circuit components or over-all infrared pattern should indicate changes in circuit operating conditions. A new method of fault isolation and prediction is described that relates these infrared changes to the circuitry"
"A description is presented of an undergraduate laboratory equipment for the study of electromagnetic energy conversion. The apparatus gives the student insight into the determination of electromagnetic force equations by allowing analysis and comparison of both the linear and nonlinear approaches"
"The increasing use of the electrode catheter in the cardiology laboratory has led to investigations of the electric shock hazard associated with this instrument for the purpose of establishing necessary precautions. These hazards may be markedly reduced by proper equipment design, coupled with proper maintenance, grounding, and laboratory procedures"
"The problems encountered in a typical petroleum or chemical tank farm create the need for telemetry of storage tank data. Design criteria are presented for a reliable solid-state digital telemetering system which is also applicable to power distribution systems. Time-sharing techniques are used to provide a conservatively designed single system capable of continuous alarm scanning, function control, and data logging. The use of proved digital techniques makes operation with a digital computer practical"
"Advances in laser technology are coming about so rapidly these days that it is difficult to report the current developments before they are old news. In last month's issue (page 978) lasers powered directly by electric currents were discussed. Since that time, the following announcements have been made."
"Advances in laser technology are coming about so rapidly these days that it is difficult to report the current developments before they are old news. In last month's issue (page 978) lasers powered directly by electric currents were discussed. Since that time, the following announcements have been made."
"By 1965, dissemination of the New York Stock Exchange trading data is expected to be completely automated. A computer system will run stock tickers. It will also “speak” to member subscribers over the Exchange's telephone quotation service."
"During the past summer, U.S. Air Force Major Robert White became the first man to fly a winged aircraft into outer space by piloting the X-15 rocket ship to an unofficial altitude of 310,000 feet, 58.7 miles above the desert at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif. Maximum speed of 3,784 mph was achieved at 156,000 feet. The X-15 was able to exceed its design altitude of 250,000 feet because of a self-adaptive flight control system developed by the Aeronautical Division of Minneapolis-Honeywell to steer the ship through the dangerous regions at the fringe of the earth's atmosphere where conventional controls are inadequate."
"As a surgeon performed a critical operation recently, a group of reporters, seated in a lounge two floors above the operating floor, watched the operation. An overall view of the room was provided on one television screen but this was not a typical closed-circuit TV demonstration. Two other large screen monitors showed what the surgeon himself saw through the operation microscope as he performed delicate surgery inside the patient's middle ear. (The operation is known as a stapedectomy.) As he worked, he explained every move, answering questions through a two-way microphone hookup, just as he might to a class of doctors."
"The world's first commercial communitywide electronic dial office, which began operation recently at Etna, N.Y., is in effect a computer designed to perform the registration and transmission functions of a telephone system. Produced by General Dynamics/Telecommunication of Rochester, N.Y., the community dial office will serve customers of the Dry den Telephone Company, a subsidiary of the Independent Telephone Corp."
"An experimental classroom has been designed in an unusual shape to give maximum viewing angles for projection screens and with its lighting, acoustics, and color scheme all planned to center attention on the instructor and the display areas. The space permits use of 2-by-4 slides, 16mm films, overhead projector, audio tapes, television, demonstration apparatus, models, double projection screen (allowing simultaneous showing of two images for comparative analysis); and a control system for the lighting."
"A new flash technique having potential advantages over other methods in the printing of electronic circuits, has been announced by the Armour Research Foundation of Illinois Institute of Technology."
"The first firing of a Sergeant ballistic missile by a tactical unit of the U.S. Army was successfully conducted recently at the White Sands Missile Range, N.M. Fired from its mobile erector launcher, the Sergeant sped out of sight in seconds, leaving only a cloud of dust and a snowy trail of vapor."
"People at noisy parties are often able to catch the sound of their own names or mention of a topic that interests them from across a room in the midst of conversational din. In the world of science, this is known as the “cocktail party effect.” At Stanford Research Institute, a psychologist interested in this strange phenomenon has completed exploratory research making use of it in a way that could drastically affect communications systems. Dr. Maurice Rappaport believes that the ability to “zero in” on a key phrase or conversation amid the tinkle of glasses and laughter is possibly the stereo effect given by two ears and the human brain's capability for selectively listening to one of several simultaneous messages."
"A network of low-altitude, nuclear-powered satellites that could provide instant global military communications in the air, on the ground, or at sea and serve as many as a million users was outlined recently before the Air Force Association at its annual meeting in Las Vegas, Nev."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Radio Engineering, and Telecommunications are published by IEEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes a translated table of contents from each of the three Russian publications as well as reviews of selected translated articles."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The largest technical program in the history of AIEE and IRE, predecessors of IEEE, will be featured at the IEEE Winter General Meeting to be held January 27-February 1 at the Statler Hilton and New Yorker Hotels in New York."
"The latest developments in equipment and services will be shown at the second Electrical Engineering Exposition which will be held at the New York Coliseum, January 28 through 31, in conjunction with the IEEE Winter General Meeting."
"The Edison Metal Committee of AIEE has awarded the Edison Medal for 1962 to Alexander C. Monteith (AM '25, M '40, F '45), vice-president, Electric Utility and Marine Group, for the Westinghouse Electric Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa. The presentation of the medal will be made at the General Session of the 1963 IEEE Winter General Meeting, at the Hotel Statler Hilton, New York, N. Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"James T. Duane (AM'56, M'59) of the General Electric Co. in Erie, Pa., has been named the nation's outstanding “Young Electrical Engineer of the Year.”"
"The Board of Directors of IRE named the recipients of seven awards at its November 14 meeting in New York City, including the Medal of Honor and the Founders Award, the two highest awards given by IRE. The presentations will take place at the 1963 IEEE International Convention banquet next March 27 at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City."
"The Executive Committee of the AIEE Board of Directors recommended the Members listed for transfer to the grade of Fellow. Note: Until AIEE and IRE membership records"
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60¬ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The United Engineering Center (UEC), at the United Nations Plaza in New York, USA, serves as the headquarters of IEEE and of 20 other engineering societies and joint engineering bodies. First occupied in 1961, this imposing and useful structure was built through the contributions of engineers and industry. The funds initially raised were not sufficient to meet the full cost of construction, leaving a net deficit of US$560,000. In addition, the Trustees have found it necessary to authorize the installation of a fifth elevator, and to complete the unfinished 15th and 16th floors, at an additional cost of $340,000. To raise this sum of $900,000, which will complete the Center and leave it free of debt, the Trustees have announced a fund-raising campaign. The Ford Foundation after a thorough investigation of the merits of this effort, has most generously agreed to contribute one dollar to the fund for each two dollars raised within two years, to a maximum of $300,000. The remaining $600,000 is to be raised in a campaign headed by Dr. Mervin J. Kelly, under whose leadership $5 million was raised in the initial campaign. The Trustees urge members of IEEE, and of the other societies, to support this fund-raising effort."
"Summary form only given, as follows. On behalf of the IEEE Board of Directors, I wish to recommend that all IEEE members support the campaign to complete the United Engineering Center. IEEE occupies two and one-half floors of this beautiful building, which houses our editorial operations, the secretariats of the Professional Technical Groups and the Technical Operations Committee and the office of the General Manager. The Center also provides excellent air-conditioned facilities for our committee meetings, with convenient food service. Many of our members contributed in the initial campaign, and we urge them to make a supplementary contribution. The majority of the membership have not previously had the opportunity to contribute to this cause, and we are sure that these members will welcome the opportunity to take part. An average contribution in excess of US$1.00 per member is necessary to meet the campaign objectives. Since about 40 per cent of the membership participated in the previous campaign, individual contributions of $5.00, or more, are indicated as a guide to those members who wish to participate. A message from Dr, Kelly, who heads the campaign, will be sent to each member when he receives his bill for next year's dues, and contributions to the fund can be made at that time. The success of the campaign depends in large part on our response. Your contributions, which are tax deductible, will help complete a most important facility for the use of our profession."
"Wescon stands for Western Electronic Show and Convention. A four-day technical program, sponsored and planned in alternate years by the San Francisco and Los Angeles (USA) Sections, is combined with a technical exhibit promoted by the Western Electronic Manufacturers Association (WEMA). This year marked the 20th anniversary of this association. The Show stresses the component as the element of electronic systems, rather than complete devices or systems themselves. Education in the technical functioning of these components is the prime purpose of the show, rather than the sales that may ultimately result from that education. A brief overview of several show events is given. In the item 'Statistics in action' the author posits the thesis that EE graduates, for perhaps 30 years (or since the advent of electronics in the educational pattern), have represented the intellectual campus cream. Added to this has been the fortunate circumstance that our major employers, for the same period, have recognized the value of intellect and have encouraged its development. We have not suffered from the attitudes of some production industries, which have refused to gamble on the high-point-average student because of the chance of drawing a personality blank or a screwball; instead, our major employers at the college level have said, \"Give us the man with demonstrated ability to learn, and we will somehow live with him.\""
"The development of high-voltage converting equipment has spurred interest within the last decade in the technical and economic aspects of HVDC (high-voltage d-c) transmission. This article examines the economics of power transmission and those areas of electrical development in Canada where transmission by HVDC is a possible economic choice. The discussion requires some rather general groupings of load areas and hydraulic resources in which existing utility and provincial boundaries are to some extent ignored and the resources treated as national or even continental assets"
"The most efficient utilization of a given computer is not always provided by the fastest program. An interpretive method has been developed for programming a digital computer to perform the sequential logic needed for process control. This technique employs a minimum amount of memory and is relatively easy for the programmer to use"
"The requirement for increased interrupting capacity in protective devices has led to the development of low-voltage fuses with current-limiting effects. The selection of the proper fuse from many available types will increase the interrupting capacity of existing low-voltage circuit breakers. In addition to their current-limiting effect, various fuse types are discussed and comparisons made to show the advantages of those types with time delay"
"To prevent damage to the refractory lining of a kiln, a technique for the early discovery of “hot spots” has been devised. The kiln-shell temperature scanner provides a means for detecting hot spots when they start to form, thus enabling the operator to take corrective action before the fault becomes serious"
"A torque transducer system is described that measures the force of reaction on the stationary member of a rotating machine delivering or receiving power. The system is not interposed between the driver and the driven machine but is used as a subbase in setting up the machine whose torque is to be measured. The transducer has a torque rating but no speed rating. Its torque rating can be changed by interchanging sets of hollow cylindrical springs. Some data are given to show its versatility, and economies in time and capital costs"
"Electric utility systems are subject to serious faults that may result in partial or complete system shutdowns. The effects of these faults can be minimized by operating procedures based on tested limitations of equipment under abnormal conditions. Various tests have been performed on generating units and their associated auxiliaries to determine these limitations"
"An all-electronic system has been developed to control both the line current and speed of a 1,750-hp pulse-loaded wound-rotor induction motor. A two-loop servo system operates silicon controlled rectifiers in the rotor circuit. Advantages include fast response times and the elimination of mechanical maintenance"
"With the aid of an electronic computer, scientists at Argonne National Laboratory have developed a technique for studying chromosomes. Research workers will be able to process thousands of cells and obtain statistics on distribution, shape, and chromosome pairing information never before available because of the time required to accumulate it by manual methods."
"A solid-state development now gives industry a critically accurate and infinitely adjustable control of speed of single a-c motors or motor groups. It is called the AccurCon/200 inverter, and some of its accomplishments are: instant response to command from either local or remote control station; precise constant-frequency output, the key to motor speed control within 0.05 per cent of absolute; precise frequency output drift for extended periods of continuous operation; change of frequency output with the turn of a dial, automatically compensating to provide constant volts per cycles ordered for the motors in use; precise response to computer or automatic controller programming; exceptional harmonic neutralization, without filtering, and with elimination of all harmonics up to the eleventh; more than 90 per cent efficiency under normal load with noload loss of less than 6 per cent even at maximum frequencies; complete protection from momentary transients, continuing precise frequency output as ordered without pause; positive protection from overcurrents automatically through current-limit circuitry: continuous operation after component breakdown with reduced power level, allowing orderly motor and system shutdown; and the necessity for virtually no maintenance or servicing, with minimum parts inventory requirements because components can be interchanged."
"The U.S. Air Force has awarded an applied research contract to the Sperry Rand Corp. for continued development of the company's laser gyroscope as a space guidance device."
"The 27th Annual Machine Tool Electrification Forum sponsored by the Westinghouse Electric Corp., at Pittsburgh, Pa., June 11 and 12, 1963, reflected the growing application of numerically controlled (NC) machine tools. There are now over 3,000 machine units in the United States. The Westinghouse manufacturing shops alone have 54 NC machines in operation with 11 more on order. (Six are contour-cutting machines; the remainder, point-to-point.) An additional 300 to 400 NC units are in England, Europe, and Japan. Distribution of NC machine tools throughout the world closely parallels the distribution of computers. This is probably more than coincidental, perhaps reflecting the general level of technical sophistication in the various countries."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"Translated issues of three Russian publications, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Telecommunications1∗, and Radio Engineering2 and two Japanese publications, Journal of the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan3 and Journal of the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan4 are published by IEEE with the cooperation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department† 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes author's summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60 cents each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Please order by number and send remittance to IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"Advertisement: Line Material Industries."
"Provides a listing of current committees, their members, and society officers."
"For additional information on any meeting listed, write either to the person designated for that meeting or to the following address: Meetings Inquiries, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N.Y."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for IEEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A NEW MAGAZINE IS BORN. The Board of Directors, meeting at the Summer General Meeting in Toronto, made several basic decisions concerning our publications in accepting a report of the Editorial Policy Committee, our ad hoc group established in November by the Merger Committee. This report recommended certain changes in publications deemed necessary by the charapter of our merged society, and including the establishment of a new IEEE magazine in January 1964. This monthly periodical, to provide technical coverage of the field for all grades of members from Fellow to Associate, is to be known as the IEEE SPECTRUM."
"Announcement of a new IEEE publications program was made by Dr. Ernst Weber, President, following approval of the program by the Board of Directors at its meeting on June 21, during the IEEE's Summer General Meeting in Toronto, Canada."
"The field of design and manufacture is suffering a dearth of able recruits. This is a direct consequence of the orientation of both students and teachers away from the real world of engineering towards a stylized science which is neither scholarship nor useful art. A solution to this problem that satisfies both the requirements of scholarship and industrial needs is difficult but must be achieved if we are to prosper and survive as a civilization"
"As electric power systems grow, generating station sites become increasingly scarce, and thus it becomes necessary to construct stations at sites remote from electric load centers. Systems with long transmission lines have an inherent transient stability problem because of high transmission-line impedances. A new approach to the solution of the transient-stability problem has been developed"
"Evaluation of transformer life in reliability and economic studies involves a changing life expectancy and failure rate. The relation of loading to temperature and insulation life is reasonably defined. The problem is to establish means of assigning values to added transformer life or reduced failure rates. A user can predict the return on transformer investment and the reduction in failure rates by use of relative aging and failure probability curves applied to the present age of existing installations"
"EHV power transmission involves several electrical problems that need solving so that higher and higher voltages can be employed with confidence. Data from various test projects have been valuable in providing solutions to problems of corona and radio interference. Further investigations on switching surges will be necessary, with the emphasis on standardization of waveshapes and testing of insulators and gaps"
"Communication requirements of the American Electric Power System have increased at a rapid rate over the past few years. Plans for further expansion of this network and upgrading of existing facilities are under way in the light of future requirements for higher speed and lower error rate in information-handling channels. Recent improvements in radio and channeling equipment are evaluated in terms of their adaptability to overall future requirements"
"A high-power switchgear testing laboratory is a necessary tool in the development of new circuit breakers that meet the requirements of modern electric systems. Additions made to increase the effectiveness of Westinghouse's High Power Laboratory include a generator, transformers, capacitors, a test cell, switchgear, and instrumentation"
"Objective analysis reveals that the best grounding practice is one that protects workmen against their own mistakes. Grounding in cell-type construction is briefly discussed, and the evolution of a safe grounding device for metal-clad switchgear is outlined. The use of this device is advocated because of the experience gained during years of study of protective grounding practices by a large utility"
"The General Electric Research Laboratory recently demonstrated a magnetic coil with a field of more than 100,000 gauss. This had been a major goal of a world-wide effort in superconductor research."
"Dartmouth College engineers who are engaged in a long-term study of naturally generated radio signals will soon have a listening station in space. Special instruments designed by the college's Thayer School of Engineering personnel to record these signals will be put into polar orbit in 1964 aboard a National Aeronautics and Space Administration satellite."
"Automatic machine translation of Chinese to English was demonstrated recently by Internatiotial Business Machines Corp. at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown, N.Y. The computer system is being developed under a contract from Rome Air Development Center, Air Force Systems Command."
"Radio signals bounced from the moon have been received at Ohio State University's Antenna Laboratory during a test of the Laboratory's saucer field-antenna array."
"In a demonstration on Sikorsky Flight Field, Stratford, Conn., last month, an S-61 helicopter lowered a 90-foot, 2,700-pound Y-shaped aluminum tower to a seven-man ground crew who fixed guy wires to anchored footings. The entire operation took about 4 minutes. The Ytower, designed by Alean (Aluminium Limited of Canada), is expected to replace the V-shaped aluminum tower pioneered by this company in 1959."
"The Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) Co.'s Humboldt Bay nuclear unit generated its first electric power on April 18, 1963. The 50,000-kwe (electric kilowatts) atomic plant sustained its first chain reaction on Feb. 16. It is now operating at a power level of 5,000 kwe in accordance with the power test program. The plant will be brought up to full power in a series of steps which will permit a check-out of the operating characteristics of the nuclear core."
"Two new ideas involving forecasting and recording of the weather have been in the news recently. Northern shippers may soon be able to save a great deal of money each winter by availing themselves of a new technique involving infrared technology to predict when lake and sea ice will form in the fall and break up in the spring. And a push-button air-borne weather-reporting system that is designed to speed up forecasts for both military and civilian operations has been announced."
"Paint has a new role in the space age. It is being used to control the temperature of satellites exposed to the freezing cold and melting heat of space. One paint formula is already in use for Syncom, the Hughes synchronous communications satellite, which was put aloft into an experimental orbit 22,300 miles above earth last February; another is being applied to Surveyor, the unmanned lunar spacecraft that is expected to carry scientific instruments to the moon; and formulas are being developed for experimenal use on the Orbiting Solar Observatory mission and for the Apollo project."
"The following items are some recent developments in the field of computer technology:"
"The Peace Corps, entering its third year of operation, announces that one of the areas of major concentration is in engineering fields and that forthcoming projects call for engineers to work in varied jobs, from classroom teaching on a university level to mapping out farm-tomarket roads, planning rural electrification projects, working on water conservation programs, building bridges and aqueducts, and designing irrigation systems. Host country requests received by the Peace Corps are doubling and tripling as the need for engineering skills develops around the world from Malaya to Brazil."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"Translated issues of three Russian publications, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Telecommunications1∗, and Radio Engineering2 and two Japanese publications. Journal of the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan3 and Journal of the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan4 are published by IEEE with the cooperation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department† 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes author's summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60 cents each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Please order by number and send remittance to IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"Advertisement: National Electric Coil."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"For additional information on any meeting listed, write either to the person designated for that meeting or to the following address: Meetings Inquiries, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N.Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"“The largert concentrated readership of electrical enginears in the world”"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A total of 60 papers will be presented at the East-Central and Allegheny-Ohio Valley District Meeting (Region 2), slated for May 8-10 at the Commodore Perry Hotel in Toledo, Ohio, USA."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The Executive Committee of the AIEE Board of Directors recommended the Members listed for transfer to the grade of Fellow. Note: Until AIEE and IRE membership records"
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"As the result of extensive studies completed in late 1961, one or more extra-high-voltage d-c lines will be used to intertie the systems of the Pacific Northwest and Pacific Southwest. To provide a sound basis for optimum design on this project, a program of investigation and testing by the Bonneville Power Administration is now under way"
"The intrinsic safety approach for making electric equipment safe in hazardous areas is to limit energy levels to values too low to cause ignition. Safe energy levels are adequate for instrumentation. Advantages include elimination of cumbersome explosion-proof housings, ease of servicing, and equipment that is more nearly foolproof. Code status both here and abroad is reviewed"
"This is a presentation of the Transformer Impulse Test Guide AIEE 93 and the story of its preparation. The Guide serves to clarify some of the test requirements now in the Standards where alternate ways of conducting tests are permitted"
"In the expansion of a large graphite plant by almost 50 per cent, one of the most important decisions was to use d-c power. Direct current was chosen for the graphitizing furnace because of the savings in generating capacity, the availability of low-cost silicon diodes, and certain freedoms made possible in bus and furnace layout"
"The general relationships between performance requirements and equipment design are discussed for the six building blocks that can be used to construct any static inverter. In designing static inverters, the engineer should examine these relationships to insure that all pertinent needs have been considered, and that the best compromise has been achieved between performance, weight, and cost"
"The impressions of several engineers in the computing devices field are summarized to present an overall perspective of the size, growth, and scope of technical activity in this area. Examples of current commercial usage and design practice, as well as noteworthy “firsts,” range from components and integrated circuits through complex multicomputer systems"
"The centralized engineering computer of Reliance Electric and Engineering Co. provides daily service, not only at its own location, but also by direct wire to three other geographically scattered engineering departments. Engineering calculation methods are common to all locations, facilitating interchange of design information, engineering personnel, and products. Both analytical and synthetic approaches are used. The greatest future potential is in maintenance and use of engineering records"
"Many present-day services and equipment cannot tolerate even momentary interruptions of electric service. The uninterrupted generating set consisting of a motor, generator, flywheel, clutch, and internal combustion engine, has been developed as a means of eliminating these interruptions. The equipment is described in broad detail with a discussion of capabilities, applications, and limitations"
"Studies were made recently for the purpose of detecting light-energy pulses from sparking brushes by means of a multiplier phototube. The effects of machine speed, number of brushes, and distance between the light transducer and brush — commutator interface were investigated. In all cases a good correlation between pulse count and visual commutation was found, and the condition of black commutation positively indicated"
"Presents abstracts for the articles comprising this issue of the publication."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Radio Engineering,∗ and Telecommunications∗ are published by IEEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department,∗∗ 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Many advances have been made recently in the development of devices and techniques for pole-top and ground-level artificial resuscitation. The chance of survival of an asphyxiation victim is maximized through use of the rescue breathing technique, applied in conjunction with external cardiac massage if circulatory arrest has occurred"
"Infrared radiation is finding increasing use for overcoming cold discomfort in many areas. Significant factors to be considered in the evaluation of an infrared system include efficiency of generation, of emitting, and of directing the energy. Control of radiation patterns offers the greatest opportunity for improvement in effectiveness of infrared applications"
"A unique power system for space, submarine propulsion, and applications in remote areas should result from the successful coupling of nuclear reactors with thermionic converters. Three conceptual designs of thermionic nuclear reactors are reviewed to establish requirements for performance characteristics and materials and to pinpoint some of the problem areas"
"The fluidized-bed coating process, practically unknown five years ago, is now in general use by motor manufacturers. A recent development in this technology is the “motor coater,” a pneumatic-powered automatic dipping machine for fluidized-bed insulation of motor components. This piece of standardized equipment is expected to simplify production and lead to economies in insulation for both large and small motor manufacturers"
"Transient voltages that may include 100-mc frequency components of substantial peak-to-peak amplitude continue to cause transformer insulation failures. Conventional techniques for obtaining oscillographic recordings of high-frequency transients are not adequate. Some of the measurement difficulties and the techniques for overcoming them are described"
"This special d-c generator has two modes of instability. The first mode is identical with the instability of a conventional unsaturated self-excited generator running at critical speed. The second mode is correlated to any quantity whose signal is fed into the generator. An example is given of the special generator as the exciter of the generator of a diesel-electric power transmission"
"High reliability resulting from the absence of moving parts makes the electromagnetic pump an attractive choice for handling conductive liquids. Knowledge of the basic mathematical relationships, performance-limiting factors, and operating principles of electromagnetic pumps is essential if further fruitful applications are to be realized"
"Load demand estimated from kilowatt-hour energy data has been adopted as the principle guide for installation or change-out of distribution transformers serving residential load at a large utility in Oregon. This article discusses the special problems connected with transformer loading, the technical considerations of a low-cost test program, and the step-by-step development of a kilowatt-hour guide for economic loading of distribution transformers"
"Digital computers can be extremely useful in the determination of optimum designs for mass-produced products. Although the emphasis in this article is on the computer design of oil-filled distribution transformers, many of the underlying approaches described are equally applicable to a wide variety of other products of industry"
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Radio Engineering, and Telecommunications are published by IEEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes a translated table of contents from each of the three Russian publications as well as reviews of selected translated articles."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 16th annual Conference on Engineering in Medicine and Biology will be held in Baltimore, MD, USA, at the Lord Baltimore Hotel, November 18-20. The conference is sponsored jointly by IEEE and the Instrument Society of America. For the technical sessions, papers are especially sought in two fields: the creative evaluation of patient monitoring systems, and the details of operation of analog-to-digital (A/D) conversion systems. Both technical exhibits and commercial exhibits are being arranged. This announcement is also a call for papers for the technical sessions."
"The Executive Committee of the AIEE Board of Directors recommended the Members listed for transfer to the grade of Fellow. Note: Until AIEE and IRE membership records"
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes authors' 75-word summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60¬ each to members, $1.00 to non-members, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Coupon books in $12.00 denominations may be obtained. Please order by number and send remittance to: IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Operating plans for a global conference on information processing were approved by representatives of a 23-nation international body meeting in Gola, Norway. The Council of the International Federation for Information Processing has authorized immediate implementation of the plans for IFIP Congress 65 and Interdata 65, the IFIP Congress Exhibition. This triennial meeting of information processing scientists will be held in New York May 24–29, 1965. IFIP is a federation of technical and professional information-processing societies in 23 nations."
"Plans for special activities in connection with the Winter Power Meeting of IEEE, to be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel, New York, February 2–7, have been announced."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities at Sandia Corp."
"Advertisement."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Nuclear reactor safety requirements are extremely rigorous and uncompromising. Strict reactor criteria can he satisfied only if the reactor power supply and control system meet a similar set of criteria. The problems arising in the electric network when these criteria are applied to a dual-purpose reactor supplying steam to a large electric power generating plant are discussed. The Hanford new production reactor and export power plant are described and used as an example"
"Tests have been conducted on transmission towers to establish flashover levels of switching-surge, impulse, and GO-cycle voltages for use in the design of structures for a SOO-fcv line. The tests on the actual tower verified the adequacy of the design to withstand switching surges of 2.5 times the maximum operating voltage of 550 kv for a line constructed at an average elevation of 5,000 feet"
"In the conclusion of this two-part article, the efficacy of ground wires in shielding the phase conductors is described in terms of the length of the striking distance of the downward leader. Upward concave return strokes, as well as repetitive strokes, have also been studied. The use of “pipe-pipe” gaps across insulator strings effectively improves the lightning performance of the line."
"Full-scale switching-surge flashover tests were made at an outdoor laboratory that covered a range of V-string and vertical insulator string lengths, tower sizes, and waveshapes. The response of line insulation to these surges was explored. Effects of precipitation and preceding trapped charge (bias voltage) were investigated, along with rod-to-ground and conductor-to-ground flashover. Estimated performance curves of EHV transmission line structures indicate economic justification for switching-surge limiting apparatus."
"A recently developed technique jor cancer treatment requires heating of the cancerous area while the patient's body is held at a lower-than-normal temperature. The most promising means for achieving this localized tissue heating, the inductive method, involves the use of high-frequency electric equipment."
"Insulation is recognized as the weak link in the chain of electrical reliahility despite the tremendous strides of the past few decades. Improvement in insulation and in test methods is suggested. A-c and d-c testing procedures are compared, and advantages and disadvantages of each, in particular test situations, are analyzed. Methods for determining the size of the test set for a particular application, a-c to d-c conversion factors, and several techniques of performing d-c tests are outlined."
"Several techniques have been developed recently for increasing the reliability of digital communication systems. Of particular importance are innovations in detection procedures and the introduction of a feedback channel from the receiver to the transmitter for purposes of error control. It is shown that benefit accrues from the combined use of coding, null-zone detection, and feedback"
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Translated issues of Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Radio Engineering, and Telecommunications are published by IEEE with the co-operation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes a translated table of contents from each of the three Russian publications as well as reviews of selected translated articles."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The author, a Director of IEEE and Chairman of the IEEE Intersociety Relations Committee, discusses in the following news story what is contained in the United Engineering Center (UEC) that IEEE members should know about. This is the first of a series of such news stories on the aftermath of the AIEE-IRE merger. This space in the UEC proved ideal in size and location for the IEEE Editorial, Professional Technical Groups, and Technical Operations Committee staflfs, numbering 88. The decision to install all of the editorial and technical service staffs together and in the same building with the Engineering Societies Library, the Engineering Index, and the staffs of the 17 other major engineering societies has been an important factor in accelerating the complete integration of the work of the two Institutes."
"For additional information on any meeting listed, write either to the person designated for that meeting or to the following address: Meetings Inquiries, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"The names of Institute members who are considered eligible for the IEEE Lamme Medal to be awarded early in 1964 may be submitted by any IEEE member in accordance with section 1 of Article VI of the bylaws of the Lamme Medal Committee. Each nomination should give concisely the specific ground upon which the award is proposed, and also a complete detailed statement of the achievements of the nominee, to enable the committee to determine its significance as compared with the achievements of other nominees. If the work of the nominee has been of a somewhat general character in cooperation with others, specific information should be given regarding his individual contributions. Names of endorsers should be given as specified in the foregoing quotation."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"A modified a-c streamer theory is set forth on the basis of established d-c theory, taking into account the various effects of negative ion space charge formation. The theory is found to be useful in describing electrical breakdown phenomena in nonuniform gaps that are excited with a-c potentials"
"Process lines often require external heating to overcome viscosity problems and to facilitate the pumping and transmission of heavy liquids. Both steam and electric tracing are commonly employed, but the emphasis in this article is on the latter technique, which has the advantages of superior adaptability and greater ease of control"
"Two methods are discussed for controlling line-charging kilovars and voltages on a lightly loaded 345-kv system. One method utilizes shunt reactors while the other takes advantage of underexcited capabilities of modern turbine-generators utilizing appropriate control. The conclusion, supported by experience, favors the underexcited operation in this situation"
"The term Centrex is well known in the telephone industry as a designation of a dial PBX system providing certain new features and services. The name and original concept suggest centrally located equipment to serve a plurality of customers. This concept has been broadened to include other than centrally located installations when the same services are provided on the customer's premises"
"In the process of performing many staged-system tests, some involving short-circuit currents as high as 45,000 amperes and voltages of 230 kv, the Bonneville Power Administration has developed techniques for recording fast-rise voltages and currents associated with such tests. Various recording systems are described. Of particular interest is a high-speed 35-mm moving-film type of camera capable of recording frequencies above 50 kc"
"Scientists at the Westinghouse Research Laboratories, Pittsburgh, Pa., can now map, in the finest detail, areas no larger than 0.001 square inch in size on the surface of tiny electronic devices, by means of a scanning electron microscope."
"Mohole is the National Science Foundation's program to drill through the earth's crust under the ocean and into the unknown mantle below that is known as the Mohorovic Discontinuity. The drilling may take three years. By a system of controls, the drilling platform (mounted on stilts above pontoons that look a little like submarines) must be held almost directly above the hole to be drilled."
"Signals from a satellite are being transmitted with electricity from a nuclear power source developed by the Atomic Energy Commission. The Department of Defense satellite was launched recently from Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif., by a Thor-Able-Star missile. The nuclear device is the SNAP-9A, the third lightweight radioisotope-fueled thermoelectric generator to be used in a satellite. The first nuclear satellites were the SNAP-3's Of 1961."
"Recently demonstrated for the U.S. Air Force was a three-element fuel-cell battery capable of operation in a space environment. The small prototype unit produces slightly more than two watts from three fuel cells weighing only if, ounce and occupying % cubic inch of space. At this power output, the battery delivers 150 watts per pound and operates at electrolyte current of 780 amperes per square foot of cell area."
"A fully automated steel facility for rolling wide-flange beams with parallel faces has been placed in operation by The Colorado Fuel and Iron Corp. at their Pueblo, Colo., plant."
"An accurate means of evaluating new anode and cathode materials for thermionic converters without the problems posed by very high temperatures may be one outgrowth of basic investigations at Martin Company's Research Institute for Advanced Studies (RIAS), Baltimore, Md. The work is being performed under a contract from the U.S. Air Force's Cambridge Research Laboratories, Bedford, Mass."
"A 25-foot test chamber recently housed three U.S. Navy volunteers for a 13-day period under pressures of six atmospheres, the equivalent of an undersea depth of 200 feet. The men's reactions to the special conditions they were subjected to will help the Navy learn the facts of life of the ocean floor."
"A reactor experiment with an integral superheat core was successfully tested recently by the Atomic Energy Commission when superheated (dry) steam was produced for the first time in a boiling water power reactor. It is known that if steam can be raised to superheated temperatures, the quantity of total heat per pound of steam will be appreciably greater than that generated in saturated steam reactors. The results are reduced nuclear costs and increased plant efficiency."
"A tough, new, inorganic insulating material just announced (and pictured on the cover) is made of bonded mica. It is expected to be useful where light weight is wanted and where the insulation must withstand high temperatures and radiation. The mica laminate comes in sheets up to 0.125 inch thick, and can be machined or molded. It will resist temperatures up to 1,400 F, has an electromagnetic wave transmission of 95 per cent, and is two thirds the weight of its equivalent in ceramic. General Electric is the manufacturer."
"A new and economical high-speed data communications system has been produced by the UNIVAC Division of Sperry Rand. The Data Line Terminal (DLT), enables the low-cost UNIVAC 1004 card processor to transmit or receive business, scientific, and engineering data over ordinary telephone lines. DLT makes it possible for one 1004 to communicate with another or with specific UNIVAC large-scale computers."
"The metal-working industry may soon bore perfect holes with automatic tools guided by the new scientific phenomenon, the laser, with resulting economies for the industry: the machine would increase its production; and there would be less waste. Tolerances would be 20 times finer than at present, or approximately one-quarter the wavelength of red light, five-millionths of an inch."
"Three “headaches” associated with color control that plague manufacturer and housewife alike squint, guess, and intuition may soon be things of the past as new methods of applied spectrophotometry and computation take over."
"Possibly within a decade or two large zero-g space laboratories will be maintained in orbit around the earth. Observers will conduct scientific experiments in these orbiting laboratories for weeks or months at a time. The space laboratories will permit, among other things, more accurate determination of fundamental constants, such as the gravitational constant G, which is difficult to determine on earth because of its allpervasive gravity field."
"A completely automatic voice weather broadcasting system that provides pilots in-flight weather information is now under development. Work is being done under a Federal Aviation Agency research and development contract."
"One of the recent spacecraft safety devices is a “hot wire” designed into the Titan III launch vehicle that is expected to provide safety insurance for the pilot. The hot wire is part of an overall pilot safety program for manned Titan III flights. The wire, carrying 28-volt direct current, will be routed through the vehicle to sense several conditions of pilot safety: premature staging, loss of power, solid motor thrust termination, and inadvertent destruction."
"A new, optically pumped solid-state laser at a wavelength of 5,985 Angstroms, in the orange range of the visible spectrum has been announced. The coherent radiation of the new laser is produced by praesodymium ions dissolved in an optically clear crystal of lanthanum trifluoride (LaFa) produced by Varian's crystal technology group."
"A new, consistent set of values for the physical constants has been recommended by the Committee on Fundamental Constants of the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council. The work of this committee is a continuation of the work of an earlier NAS-NRC committee."
"The New York Section of the Society of Women Engineers has announced the appointment of Dr. Beatrice A. Hicks as Conference Director of the First International Conference of Women Engineers and Scientists to be held in June 1964 at the United Engineering Center in New York. Miss Ruth Shafer will be Operations Chairman. Dr. Hicks is president and Director of Engineering, Newark Control Co., Miss Shafer is a design engineer of air conditioning, heating, and ventilation for naval and other ships for Gibbs and Cox, Inc., Naval Architects in their Hull Division. Dr. Lillian M. Gilbreth, president of Gilbreth, Inc., international industrial engineers and management consultants, is consultant and keynoter for the conference."
"In the subatomic world of electrons and other particles, one can never know completely what is going on. If a physicist knows precisely how fast a particle is traveling, for example, he cannot tell exactly where it is. This is the well-known principle of uncertainty that, for decades, has been an important part of physical theory. Now, puzzling phenomena uncovered in experiments at Arthur D. Little, Inc., contribute to a growing suspicion that, in the realm of extreme cold, physicists have so far overlooked an important implication of the principle of uncertainty, and that the explanation lies in a new application of the principle."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"For an explanation of the EJC Information Retrieval Program and how to use these index/abstracts, see the August 1962 issue, p. 623."
"Translated issues of three Russian publications, Radio Engineering and Electronic Physics, Telecommunications1∗, and Radio Engineering2 and two Japanese publications, Journal of the Institute of Electrical Engineers of Japan3 and Journal of the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan4 are published by IEEE with the cooperation of Scripta Technica, Inc. Subscription rates and other information are available from: IEEE Special Subscription Department† 275 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N.Y."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Each month, Electrical Engineering publishes author's summaries of all serially numbered papers offered for sale at General and District Meetings and Special Technical Conferences. Preprints of these papers may be purchased at 60 cents each to members, $1.00 to nonmembers, if accompanied by remittance or coupons. Please order by number and send remittance to IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y."
"This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents of Electrical Engineering for the calendar year 1963. It includes all special articles and authors, all news items, and all items published on IEEE technical program papers. A technical program paper will be listed as (63-000). The contents are arranged according to Subject and Author Index listing articles and authors; News Index listing all items that appear in IEEE on the Move and Progress in Technology sections, with a Biographical Index of news items on IEEE members."
"Advertisement."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"For additional information on any meeting listed, write either to the person designated for that meeting or to the following address: Meetings Inquiries, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N.Y."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Epitaxial material growth techniques describing the apparatus and procedures for silicon and germanium are given. Epitaxial device fabrication steps are outlined and a description of the procedures used in producing epitaxial mesa transistors is presented. A summary of device performance data is given, comparing epitaxial transistor characteristics with those of nonepitaxial transistors of the same type. Mention is made of the observed reliability and the reasons why improved reliability should be expected with the use of epitaxial mesa transistors."
"Measurements of ionization of a gas by radiation from the positive column of a glow discharge indicated that ionizing radiation is produced primarily by collision processes rather than by recombination. The ratio of ions produced by radiation to ions produced in the discharge is plotted as a function of distance from the discharge for oxygen, nitrogen, and air. Application of these data to the initiation of positive corona can account for the observed corona starting voltage."
"A procedure is developed which permits the design of iterative stages for a transistor amplifier required to satisfy specified gain, gain sensitivity, and d-c stabilization criteria. After initial imposition of the circuit constraints necessary to insure acceptable operating point stability, the designer may proceed to examine the limits of achievable gain and gain sensitivity; then he is in a position to compromise such conflicting requirements as may have been exposed or to select a transistor with greater performance capability. The design is completed by means of an orderly sequence of calculations."
"An increasingly important problem confronting digital system designers is that of obtaining a high level of system reliability when, because of system peculiarities, a system is essentially non-repairable. A redundancy technique for combinational logic networks is described which, for a given redundancy level, permits a much greater reliability improvement than do the classic techniques. This is made possible through new device design and the incorporation of the logic of error correcting codes in the system logic. By exploiting the properties of integrated circuits this technique promises to make passive self-repair through redundancy a practical solution to some of the reliability problems associated with nonrepairability."
"An analysis of ferroresonant transformers is given, considering special structures which permit closed-loop regulation. An analytical fit is used for the magnetization curve of the material, and the fundamental frequency components of currents and voltages are obtained. Results are converted in an equivalent circuit. The controlled saturable admittance is expressed in terms of design parameters, material properties, and driving signal. Gains and sensitivities over the range of operation are derived."
"The significance of the work described lies in the potential of the technique explored. The analog computer simulation of heart action is presented primarily to illustrate that potential, which, though interesting, is only a necessary first step in an investigation capable of extending knowledge far beyond its present bounds. There is a certain risk in presenting the limited results of progress to date, particularly to an audience represented by different professions, somewhat divergent interests, and certainly varied talents. However, we gladly take that risk in the hope that others will be encouraged to improve upon our work, pervert the suggested technique to their own ends, and thereby develop better tools for the job they must do."
"With new techniques of fetal electrocardiography, it is possible to make prenatal determination of the existence of congenital cardiac malformation in the unborn heart. Complete heart block, and coarctation of the aorta, have been shown. A set of criteria is proposed on the basis of which such prenatal diagnoses can be made. Another proposal is to classify congenital cardiac malformation on the basis of the epoch of origin, in view of the capability of fetal cardiac electrical studies, thus opening exciting new possibilities in heart disease research."
"A new method for turning off the silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCR) in a parallel inverter has been developed. The basis of this method is a special transformer incorporating two square-loop cores. The operation of a self-oscillating inverter using such a transformer is analyzed, and results obtained from a test circuit are presented. This type of inverter is characterized by a square-wave output voltage, easy starting, and small size and weight for a given frequency and power capability."
"A quantitative investigation was made of the rates of energy loss, coercivity, and remanent polarization in unpolarized ceramic barium titanate disks over the temperature range 0 to 75 C (degrees centigrade) as manifested in the rate of deconstriction of 60-cps (cycles per second) hysteresis loops. Empirical expressions were deduced which are first approximations for rather complicated rate processes. Constricted loops were synthesized by placing two oppositely oriented polarized disks together and applying a high a-c field. By way of explanation of constriction a model is given in which it is assumed that 180-degree domains are the principal cause."
"Information is given on a new type of magnetic amplifier whose output voltage is controllable in amplitude rather than variation of pulse width. The device utilizes a pair of silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCR's) associated with small saturable reactors in a circuit closely related to that of a magnetic stabilizer. The theory of operation of this amplifier is derived, and equations and vector diagrams for its design are furnished."
"Various circuit configurations of a new-type magnetic amplifier are discussed, and experimental results are reported. Output voltage is practically independent of large line voltage, load, and frequency variations. No waveshape distortion of the line voltage, as encountered with common magnetic amplifiers, is caused. Efficiency and power factor are high throughout the nominal operating range. The amplifier is especially suitable for application in accurately regulated d-c power supplies."
"The circuit described uses five silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCR's) in parallel to control the average voltage supplied to a 30-hp (horsepower) series d-c motor. The rectifiers, used in a time-ratio circuit that has a constant pulse width and a variable repetition rate, control the motor speed over a 5-to-1 range, independent of plus or minus 20% changes in input voltage."
"Certain applications require extremely good performance for nearly every amplifier characteristic while the amplifier is being subjected to extreme simultaneous thermal and mechanical environments."
"The effects of reactor radiation [1015–1018 neutrons/cm2 (per square centimeter)] on the dielectric properties of BaTiO3, 96% BaTiO3 +4% PbTiO3, 95% BaTiO3 +5% CaTiO3, and lead zirco-titanate were studied. Complex permittivity and large-signal hysteresis properties were measured before and after irradiation, after room temperature aging, and after 500 C (degrees centigrade) heat treatment. Effects on the hysteresis properties and the small-signal permittivity were small except for exposures of 1018 neutrons/cm.2 All of the measured properties were affected in some degree by aging and heat treatment."
"Definitive good-geometry tests have been performed on RG-59B/U and RG-174/U coaxial cables at the Kukla pulsed reactor. It has been observed that the radiation-induced current from center conductor to grounded shield is described by"
"The detailed mechanism of secondary photocurrent generation in transistors due to short pulses of ionizing radiation is discussed quantitatively, and the results of 0.2-μsec (microsecond) flash X-ray experiments are explained. The dependences of the transient current pulse on transistor types, radiation dose, initial bias level, and external circuit impedance are presented. A possible equivalent circuit controlled by stored base charges is developed which makes it possible to predict more accurately the transient responses of many transistor circuits."
"This paper describes a magnetic-recording-tape transport capable of very-high timing accuracy and speed stability. In the magnetic recording and playback of wideband information, minimum frequency distortion and accurate timing are essential properties of the system. The time scale of the output information depends almost entirely on the tape transport and its associated control. First, this paper discusses certain general features which are essential in a high-accuracy tape transport, then it presents the design of a pulse-type servo control system which is capable of controlling instantaneous tape velocity with very high precision."
"This paper describes the development of a print hammer mechanism. The parameters controlled are printing force and energy to produce the required density on multiple-part forms; repeatability of hammer flight time for alignment of adjacent printed characters; and the duration of impact between hammer, ribbon, multiple form, moving type, and platen to eliminate smudged printing. Results of this investigation serve as the basis for continuing studies in impact printing."
"Extensions and improvements in the field of design automation by means of improved descriptive languages and programming are considered. The language is particularly important for the early, system design, phase of a development. Programming improvements are discussed through analogies with the general field of automatic coding. The aspects considered are: data definition (symbolic references to items and indexing of repetitive arrays of units); subroutines, subsystems, and macros for describing identical and nearly identical units occurring throughout a system; diagnosis and check-out programs; and the organization of sets of design automation programs."
"The use of broad-band amplifiers in telemetering application, high-definition radar, phase-sensitive radars, countermeasures, and jam-proof systems has shown the need for a very-high-gain low-noise tube. Many of these applications need a device capable of resisting mechanical and thermal shock as well as electrical transients. Optimum design of a tube of this type would result in the highest possible transconductance balanced against low values of input and output capacitances. Low lead inductance and grid-to-cathode transit time are also important parameters."
"A multibit counter, operating within the fundamental computer cycle, is a basic tool for computation. A parallel add 1-subtract 1 system is described which is logically designed for maximum speed. Checking logic is included to detect all single errors without increasing cycle time. Current switching and emitter-follower circuits using diffused junction transistors are employed in the specific design described. The parallel counter is shown to be more efficient than an equivalent serial counter when both cost and performance are taken into account."
"The operation of a 1-core-per-bit magnetic nondestructive read (NDR) element using a bias restoration technique is discussed. Nondestructive read time of 100 nsec (nanoseconds) was easily achieved. Peak voltage s/n (signal-to-noise) ratios ranged from 5:1 to 15:1. Writing was done by using simple 2D wiring. The main advantages over other NDR elements are larger s/n ratios with larger signal levels and simple writing and wiring."
"It is shown that high levels of energy can be transported by inductive coupling from a set of three very-large mutually orthogonal coils which are fixed in space to a single receiving coil inside the chest cavity or buried within the chest wall of an animal which is free to move about within a restricted portion of the field established by the coil set. Coil-excitation conditions and energy-transport-efficiency relationships are derived."
"Figure 8 plastic-insulated telephone cables, both shielded and nonshielded, have been developed incorporating a jacketed messenger connected to the cable jacket by an integral web. Field trials and laboratory tests have shown that jacketed multiwire messenger must be sealed to provide corrosion resistance. This figure 8 construction facilitates time-saving by the simultaneous placing of cable and messenger using substantially the same equipment and practices as conventional cable. The non-shielded type provides improved mechanical and electrical characteristics over that of multipair distribution wire (MDW)."
"Problems associated with stabilizing and desensitizing the voltage gain, input impedance, and interstage impedances of transistor amplifiers against variations in transistor parameters are discussed. In the systematic pursuit of these objectives, voltage gain and impedances are found to approach simple asymptotic values, for which the error fraction may be precisely defined. The sensitivity of these error fractions to transistor parameter variations also may be accurately stated. Development of this concept will make use of the short-circuit admittance parameters, or y parameters, of the transistors. Conclusions, however, will be stated in terms of minimum Ft, minimum low-frequency beta, and a knowledge of the d-c operating conditions of the transistors."
"The most widely used type of telephone switching equipment requires, for optimum operation, control pulses with a ratio of 60% break, 40% make. Distortion produced in interoffice transmission facilities may, however, result in wide variations in incoming pulse ratios. This paper describes a pulse corrector that produces uniform pulses of the proper ratio, from input pulses ranging from 10% to 90% break, at speeds of 7 1/2 to 14 pulses per second (pps)."
"The initial application of TH 6,000-mc (megacycle) microwave in the Bell System communications network on an existing long-haul TD-2 4,000-mc radio relay route between Denver and Salt Lake City proved the feasibility of such construction to augment the circuit capacity of existing TD-2 systems. The construction of building additions, conversion to 3-phase power, changing out of emergency engine alternators, antennas, and waveguide were vaccomplished without interruption to service on the TD-2 system. Subsequent construction will extend the TH facilities from coast to coast."
"In certain switching arrangements attempted calls may be lost, over and above those appearing when all channels are busy, due to the time required to perform the switching functions. The amount of loss will depend on the relative lengths of the time elements involved; and no matter how brief they are, the possibility of such loss will exist unless special precautions are taken in the structure of the system to preclude it."
"Many present-day voice-frequency telephone circuits require two or more electrically short links in tandem, minimum capital investment, and less than a 2-week completion interval. The engineering, installation, and circuit line-up must be done rapidly and accurately. One approach to rapid and accurate design and line-up is through simulation. A practical design for a transmission-circuit simulator to determine impedance, return loss, and frequency-attenuation characteristic is discussed."
"Inactive (the vehicle acts merely as a reflector) Doppler acquisition (no assumptions about the vehicle path are required) systems are treated from a mathematical standpoint. It is shown that solutions exist only when the number of ground sites exceeds four and that seven sites are necessary for the 1-reading system. Invariant relations are derived which allow iteration using only the three coordinates of one vehicle location as iterative variables."
"Angular scintillation tracking noise for simplified radar target models has been analyzed by Delano, Muchmore, Freeman, and others for monofrequency pulse radars. This paper extends their work to the case of pulse-to-pulse frequency-modulated radars and demonstrates that such radars offer a significant reduction in angle tracking error. Tracking improvement is derived as a function of tracking servo bandwidth, scintillation spectrum, and FM (frequency modulation) regimen. A quantity, ΔLfc, is defined as the minimum pulse-to-pulse frequency shift required to achieve maximum tracking improvement, and is derived as a function of target model and radar parameters."
"This paper deals with the problem of maintaining the most complex portion of an experimental electronic telephone switching system, the central control. New and more effective automatic trouble detection and diagnostic techniques were used. In order to utilize these techniques effectively, a maintenance dictionary — that is, a table relating trouble indications with corresponding faulty plug-in package — had to be produced. The system itself was utilized to create this dictionary. More than 50,000 known faults were purposely introduced into the central control to be diagnosed by its diagnostic program. The corresponding test results were then recorded via a high-speed output. Finally, these test data were sorted and printed in dictionary form by a computer."
"Active (vehicle-borne transmitter) Doppler acquisition (no assumptions about the vehicle path are required) systems are treated from a mathematical standpoint. It is shown that solutions exist only when the number of receivers exceeds three and that linear solutions for the ranges are possible for certain systems including that system which uses five readings at each of five stations."
"The circuit of a 1,000-cycle transistor oscillator with a high degree of amplitude stability is described. The oscillator possesses inherent amplitude stability which is further improved by passive compensation and regulation. The transmission characteristics of the generator are such that the output amplitude will not vary by more than 0.03 db (decibel) over the temperature range from 40 to 120 F (degrees Fahrenheit) and over a supply voltage range of ±10% of nominal."
"A data-communications system providing 1-second responses to queries from airline reservation sets is based upon the use of 1,000-baud lines and a free-flow transfer buffer concept. On-line reliability is obtained by a loop arrangement and dual terminals. Considerations in the design of this system which are described include coding, error detection, and reliability. A queuing model is discussed in relation to its use in specifying peak response performance based upon nonqueue measurements."
"In order to maintain the accuracy of loss measurements commensurate with the requirements of direct distance dialing (DDD), very accurate test tones are needed. This paper describes a rugged, portable calibrating set used to insure the accuracy of the test tones. A telephone craftsman may use this set to adjust the level of a signal with 0.3% accuracy. A means for analytically determining the accuracy of such a set is given in the Appendix."
"On November 17, 1960, an Electronic Central Office at Morris, Ill., was formally dedicated. While this office was a Bell Telephone Laboratories experimental trial, it provided 24-hour-per-day commercial-grade service with no backup arrangements. The trial was of 14 1/2 months' duration and served the needs of 435 telephone customers. The majority of customers were also provided with one or more new services. Results of the trial furnished conclusive evidence as to the feasibility of electronic switching systems (ESS) and provided many answers needed in the design of future systems."
"The usefulness of an accurate, yet simple, tachometer with a top range of 50,000 rpm is apparent. If the operation can be based on the stroboscopic principle and thus exert no loading, the application includes even very small motors where external load would appreciably affect the reading. High accuracy is not easily attained with conventional meters as the readout mechanism. Thus, if accuracies of the order of ±1 rpm out of 50,000 are contemplated, a digital or decade readout is indicated. This paper discusses the functional operation and the unit design of a system capable of accurately measuring and reading speeds from 20 to 50,000 rpm with an accuracy of ±1 rpm without mechanically loading the motor shaft being observed."
"This paper discusses in broad terms the design of a radically new family of multiplex terminals, designated the L multiplex, designed to work with any of several broadband transmission facilities. The relevant historical background of multiplex terminals is covered and design objectives for the new equipment are outlined. The new multiplex takes advantage of advances in the state of the art to reduce the size of equipment and increase reliability, while it retains the proven advantages of older equipment. Other advantages of the new multiplex include in-service maintenance, decentralized carrier supplies, and increased flexibility. The latter permits its use with as few as 60 or as many as 1860 voice channels and also adapts it for use with wideband data service. Compatibility with older multiplex equipment was maintained where possible, but in order to meet future demands for broadband service, it was decided to modify older equipment rather than compromise the design of the new to maintain compatibility."
"L multiplex terminals provide the several stages of modulation required to translate telephone channels into the broad basebands which can be transmitted on long-haul systems. The group and supergroup equipment has been redesigned incorporating many new features. Pilot-controlled regulators are provided to improve performance. Plug-in modules and automated monitoring facilitate maintenance. The equipment is arranged to reduce office cabling and installation cost. By the use of transistors and other newly developed devices and components, a size reduction of 10 to 1 has been achieved and the required power greatly reduced."
"This article describes the carrier and pilot supply equipment of the L-type multiplex. Also discussed is the modernized carrier supply for the A-type channel banks described in an earlier paper. A short review of previous carrier equipment and recent developments in carrier application is followed by a general discussion of the design approach. Finally, specific circuits and equipment units are described."
"The carriers and pilot tones of the L multiplex are all derived from a single source of 4 kc. The new primary frequency supply provides this primary frequency. It is designed to operate phase-locked to a pilot tone derived from an incoming carrier system and hence to have no frequency error with respect to that tone. The unit features a high degree of frequency stability, even in the absence of the pilot; it features more reliable performance and lower maintenance as well as marked size reduction compared with the older equipment."
"This article summarizes the salient features of seven relay-type computers designed and built at Bell Telephone Laboratories. Emphasized are features derived from telephone technology and the role played by the Bell Laboratories designs in advancing the computer art."
"It is well known that the concept of return difference plays a central role in the classical theory of linear feedback systems developed by Black, Nyquist, Blackman and Bode. This concept, which relates to the influence of a single algebraic system-constraint of the form f2 = γf1 where f1 and f2 respectively may be regarded as a controlling signal and a controlled signal, retains its prominence in the subsequent signal-flow graph theoretic extensions by Mason. It is particularly pertinent to the study of the stability of the system, its degree of immunity from parameter variations, and the determination of its transmission and driving-point properties. This paper reports on a generalization of Blackman's equation and on some generalizations of Bode's return difference theorems. Here attention is focused not on a single constraint of the form f2 = γf1, but instead on a set of constraining equations."
"Recurrence formulas for the Laplace transforms and the moments of the interoverflow distributions are obtained under the assumptions that the traffic offered is random (Poissonian) and that the service times are independent of each other and have a common negative exponential law. Under the same assumptions, it is also shown that the distribution of the nonbusy period of a group of c trunks is identical to the interoverflow distribution of a group of c — 1 trunks and that the distribution of the number of consecutive successful calls is essentially a mixture of geometric distributions. Processes obtained by superposing two or more overflow processes from independent trunk groups are not of the renewal type because interoverflow intervals are no longer independent. It is shown here that the correlation between two consecutive interoverflow intervals of a composite overflow process is always positive."
"The effect of radiation damage on the important parameters of solar cells has been evaluated for groups of blue-sensitive n-on-p, normal p-on-n, and blue-sensitive p-on-n cells using 1-Mev electrons. The outer space short circuit current, maximum power, junction characteristic, and spectral response are presented quantitatively as a function of radiation flux along with the bulk minority-carrier diffusion length. The rate of change of inverse squared diffusion length with flux is found to be 1.22 × 10−8 for the p-on-n cells, as compared to 1.7 × 10−10 for the n-on-p. The degradation of the spectral response is consistent with the measured diffusion length for both types of cells if one assumes a total effective front layer of 1 μ thickness for the p-on-n cells. As a result of the less rapid degradation of their minority-carrier lifetime, the n-on-p cells exhibit a greater resistance to radiation than the p-on-n cells. Comparing only the two types of blue-sensitive cells, after prolonged bombardment, the flux ratios required to achieve equal values of short-circuit current and maximum power are 17 and 9.5 respectively."
"In an earlier paper1 we proved the existence of stimulated emission of bremsstrahlung for electrons moving in the vicinity of nuclei. However, no estimate of the available power was given at that time. This paper extends the theory to the fourth order of perturbation theory, which allows one to estimate the available power from this process. We find that the available power increases proportional to the fifth power of the frequency, and that one might obtain power in the order of one watt at a frequency of 1000 gigacycles. The oscillation condition at these high frequencies is met by the passage of many slow electrons through a dense assembly of ions or atoms. Although these conditions are uncommon, stimulated emission of bremsstrahlung may play a role at microwave frequencies in very high current semiconductor experiments."
"The repeatered lines for the T1 carrier system (24 voice channels, PCM) are cable pairs equipped with transistorized regenerative amplifiers. The line signal is a train of 1,544,000 bipolar pulse positions per second. The line engineering methods, which tell how to select cable facilities and where to place repeaters, are based on the theory and measurements reported here. Using typical cable data, specific examples are given of the design limits imposed by the principal types of interference: crosstalk from other T1 systems and noise originating in central offices."
"At a telephone exchange, calls appear before a single trunk line in accordance with a Poisson process of density λ. If the trunk line is busy, calls are delayed. The call holding times are identically distributed, mutually independent, positive random variables with distribution function H(x). In this paper the distribution function of the delay and its moments are given for a stationary process and for three orders of service: (i) order of arrival, (ii) random order, and (iii) reverse order of arrival."
"Let us suppose that customers arrive at a counter in accordance with a Poisson process of density λ. The customers are served by a single server in order of arrival. The service times are identically distributed, mutually independent, positive random variables with distribution function H(x). Suppose that after being served each customer either immediately joins the queue again with probability p or departs permanently with probability q (p + q =1). In this paper we shell determine for a stationary process the distribution of the queue size as well as the Laplace-Stieltjes transform and the first two moments of the distribution function of the total time spent in the system by a customer."
"The function of the angle-error detector is to provide pointing-error signals to the ground antenna control system, which allows operation in the autotrack mode once the satellite beacon has been acquired. The limitations on the accuracy of this system imposed by noise, phase jitter and Doppler effects are evaluated and the optimum design in terms of minimum mean-square error is developed. Design examples are given for both the horn-reflector antenna autotrack system and the precision tracker antenna system"
"The error structure on communication channels used for data transmission may be so complex as to preclude the feasibility of accurately predicting the performance of given codes when employed on these channels. Use of an approximate error rate as an estimate of performance allows the complex statistics of errors to be reduced to a manageable table of parameters and used in an economical evaluation of large collections of error detecting codes. Exemplary evaluations of error detecting codes on the switched telephone network are included in this paper. On channels which may be represented by Gilbert's model of a burst-noise channel, the probabilities of error or of retransmission may be calculated without approximations for both error correcting and error detecting codes"
"Speech volumes of customers on Bell System message circuits have been measured at class 5 offices. Data are presented for intrabuilding, inter-building, tandem and toll connections. Average speech volumes are lowest for intrabuilding calls and increase in level for the other types of connections, with volumes on toll calls being the highest. In general, volumes on business calls are higher than those on social calls, and men speak louder than women. Speech volumes remain substantially the same in locations comparable to those in a survey made in 1950"
"A scheme is disclosed whereby an antenna array is automatically directed by a simple intermodulation of signal components. In reception, each array element feeds a pilot signal and the modulated signal to a third-order mixer wherein the phase associated with the signal in that element is automatically cancelled. This allows in-phase addition of the contributions from the many elements irrespective of the array shape or the direction of the incoming signal. For transmission, a pilot signal received from the distant receiver location provides by intermodulation a phase compensation to the signal radiated from each transmitting element so as to automatically direct the radiated signal to the distant receiver. There are no significant restrictions as to the shape of the array or the frequencies used. The scheme lends itself to multiple-element, low-power circuitry and may be used in either space or terrestrial systems to give a high repeater directivity without requiring stabilized platforms or control of antenna orientation. An experimental verification of the basic principle is described"
"This is the first part of a two-part paper concerned with some generalizations and extensions of the Beurling-Landau-Miranker-Zames theory of recovery of distorted bandlimited signals. We present a uniqueness proof that extends Beurling's result and study a class of functional mappings defined on Hilbert space. As an application, we show that the recovery results can be extended to cases in which a known square-integrable corrupting signal is added to the input signal and the result applied to a time-variable device which may be nonlinear. It is proved that an assumption made by the earlier writers is in fact necessary in order that stable recovery be possible. Part II will consider the more complicated situation in which a single time-variable nonlinear element is imbedded in a general linear system"
"By adding a square wave of noise to the input of an ultra-low-noise receiver via a directional coupler, a radiometer with a sensitivity greater than a Dicke type can be achieved when the basic system temperature is less than 18°K. A noise-adding radiometer is compatible with a communications receiver and has been used (i) to measure and monitor the absolute system temperature and (ii) to check the boresighting of a space communications antenna by detecting and tracking radio stars"
"This is the first of two papers on the ALPAK system for nonnumerical algebra on a digital computer. This paper is concerned with polynomials in several variables and truncated power series with polynomial coefficients. The second paper will discuss rational functions of several variables, truncated power series with rational-function coefficients, and systems of linear equations with rational-function coefficients. The ALPAK system has been programmed within the BE-SYS-4 monitor system on the IBM 7090 computer, but the language and concepts are machine independent. The available polynomial arithmetic operations are add, subtract, multiply, divide (if divisible), substitute, differentiate, zero test, nonzero test, and equality test. The speed of the system is indicated by the rule of thumb that one man-hour equals one 7090-second. The available space in core is usually sufficient for approximately 8000 polynomial terms. Section I of this paper consists of a nontechnical description of the system and a brief glimpse into the future. Section II discusses several specific problems to which the ALPAK system has been applied. These two parts do not presuppose any knowledge of computers or computer programming. Section III describes the use and the implementation of the algebraic operations relating to polynomials in several variables and truncated power series with polynomial coefficients. The reader of Section III is assumed to be acquainted with the elements of FAP (FORTRAN Assembly Program) programming, including the use of macros, as described in a series of IBM publications, the latest of which is IBM 7090–7094 Programming Systems MAP (Macro Assembly Program) Language (Form Number C28–6311)."
"This paper discusses discrete, linear, time-invariant, nonrecursive, finite memory, polynomial smoothing filters for noise that is correlated from sample to sample. The wide-sense Markov process is used as a model for the noise. Analysis and synthesis of the aforementioned filters are discussed in detail and several plots are furnished. A simple method for generating discrete, wide-sense Markov noise for simulation is noted. A noise model composed of a linear combination of wide-sense Markov processes is developed and applied for the case in which the previous model is not sufficiently accurate"
"The Telstar I satellite was launched into orbit by a three-stage Delta launch vehicle guided by the Bell Telephone Laboratories command guidance system. The Delta program is a National Aeronautics and Space Administration sponsored series of missile flights designed to place various scientific payloads into orbit around the earth. This paper discusses the theory of the guidance equations employed by the command guidance system in the Delta program"
"Dynamical problems of the spin-stabilized Telstar satellite, characterized by spin decay, spin-precession damping, and spin-axis drift, are analyzed in this paper. Both the eddy-current torques and the magnetic torques, which cause the above three phenomena, are evaluated. By extrapolation from the observed data, the characteristic time of the nearly exponential spin decay of the satellite is estimated to be about 330 days. A linear analysis of the precession damper is made, and the results are compared with experiments, showing that the satellite precession angle will diminish by a factor of e in a maximum time of 30 minutes. A qualitative description is given to illustrate the fundamental mechanism of spin-axis drift. Results of these analyses can be applied to any spin-stabilized satellite"
"It is shown how the gravity-gradient effect may be utilized to design a long-lived, earth-pointing satellite attitude control system which requires no fuel supplies, attitude sensors or active control equipment. This two-body system is provided with a magnetic hysteresis damper which effectively damps out oscillations (librations) about the local vertical. The long rods, which must be extended in space from coiled up metal tapes, provide the required large moments of inertia and possess adequate rigidity and sufficient strength to endure the rigors of the extension process. The system is compatible with the requirements of multiple satellite launchings from a single last-stage vehicle. Analysis indicates that the gravitational torques are sufficient to keep the disturbing effects of solar radiation pressure, residual magnetic dipole moments, orbit eccentricity, rod curvature, eddy currents, and meteorite impacts within tolerable limits. It is believed that the high-performance, earth-pointing system described and analyzed in this paper represents an essential step in the development of high-capacity communications satellites requiring long life"
"The rigid body motion of a two-body satellite under the action of gravitational torques is analyzed. The satellite consists of two rigid bodies connected by a universal joint where damping is provided in the two journals. The motion of the satellite relative to the mass center thus has five degrees of freedom, two of which are provided with energy dissipation. It appears that the rigid body motion of such a composite satellite will automatically converge upon a motion in which a given axis of the satellite is earth-pointing. The equations of motion are derived directly from those of Euler. Necessary stability criteria are established. Numerical solutions for a practical scheme are presented"
"This note is of the nature of an addendum to a recent paper on satellite communication systems. It is concerned with the distribution and average durations of innages and outages occurring in transmission systems composed of a number of links. The links of such a composite system may be either in series, as in a radio relay system, or in parallel, as in a many-satellite system. Several results regarding composite transmission systems, including some due to D. S. Palmer, are reviewed, restated, and extended"
"Nonuniformities in the phase fronts of electromagnetic and acoustical waves give rise to radiation in directions other than that desired. The magnitude of this effect is discussed here with special reference to quasi-random roughness. It is found that the level of wide-angle radiation is a strong function of the phase deviations and that reflecting surfaces, for example, should be held to tolerances of about ±0.01λ to prevent the level of the wide-angle radiation from exceeding twice that due to a perfectly smooth reflector"
"The TL radio relay system is a telephone message broadband microwave facility that operates in the 10.7- to 11.7-gc common carrier frequency band. It has been specifically designed for high reliability, low maintenance and small power consumption by the exclusive use of solid-state circuitry except for the transmitter and local oscillator klystron tubes. Transmission performance and over-all system description are presented, as well as a description of some early field applications"
"General equations are derived for the spectral density and autocorrelation functions of a wave train consisting of sine-wave segments with constant amplitude. The frequency of a segment may be either f1 or f2. At regularly spaced intervals the frequency is switched or not switched according to a random choice. This type of wave occurs when a random series of marks and spaces is sent by frequency-shift keying. The results fall into two main classes — namely, that of discontinuous phase at the transitions, which is the typical situation in switching between two independent oscillators; and that of continuous phase at the transitions, which is more usually applicable when the frequency of a single oscillator is changed. Individual treatment is given of the various special cases which arise when integral relationships between the marking, spacing, signaling, and shift frequencies exist. No restriction is made on the relative magnitudes of the different frequencies involved."
"Formulas are derived for probability of error in the detection of binary FM signals received from a channel characterized by arbitrary amplitude- and phase-vs-frequency distortion as well as additive Gaussian noise. The results depend on the signal sequence and can be presented in terms of averages over all signal sequences or as bounds for the most and least vulnerable ones. Illustrative examples evaluated include Sunde's method of suppressing intersymbol interference in band-limited FM. The effects of various representative channel filters are also analyzed. A solution is given for the problem of optimizing the receiving bandpass filter to minimize error probability at constant transmitted signal power. It is found that a performance from 3 to 4 db poorer than that theoretically attainable from binary PM is realizable over a variety of filtering situations"
"A relationship is derived between the delay characteristic in a data transmission system and the distortion in the form of intersymbol interference created by the delay variation. The relationship is valid for small delay and involves a sequence of linear functionals, each of which has a particular significance. In addition to applications in the analysis of specific systems, problems of a more general nature may be studied using this approach. By various manipulations on the sequence of functionals, bounds on distortion in terms of rms and peak-to-peak delay are derived. On examining the problem of delay equalization, a set of virtually distortion-free delay functions is derived and related to minimum-effort and compromise equalization. Both low-pass and bandpass systems are discussed in turn, with the same general method of analysis applying to each."
"This paper describes a method of increasing the reliability of synchronization in a network of remote clocks. A common synchronization technique embodies the master-slave relation where one paticular clock is a reference for the others. The geometry of a typical network can be likened to a “tree” structure. The master clock transmits its signal, simultaneously, over several transmission links to synchronize slave oscilldators at the ends. The slaves retransmit the reference signal to other slaves one link away. This process is iterated as the system expands. Each slave has only one input; hence, a network of this type can be disabled, in varying degree, by the failure of any clock or transmission link."
"In millimeter wave systems, one of the most important components is the first conveter or mixer. This brief paper describes a recently developed point-contact diode of the wafer type which operates efficiently as a first coventer in the frequency range 90 to 140 kilomegacycles (F-band)."
"This paper describes a method for predicting the magnitude of interchannel modulation due to multipath propagation on angle-modulated tropospheric scatter radio systems. Values of signal-to-intermodulation ratio, S/I, are calculated for various pairs of signal reflections in the troposphere, taking into account the base bandwidth and frequency deviation of the system, the antenna patterns, the path geometry, and climatic conditions during the “worst month” of propagation. The lowest value of S/I (worst intermodulation) computed for such pairs of signal reflections is then corrected empirically to account for multiple reflections. The result represents the median value of S/I expected during the worst month of transmission on a specified path. The method yields results that, when compared to measured results from four widely different paths normalized to worst-month conditions, have a standard error of estimate of about 2.6 db."
"A wideband transistor IF amplifier is described. A measured model has a gain of 41 db and is flat to ±0.1 db from 50 to 100 mc. Data on noise figure, effect of temperature changes and power output are presented. An electronically variable attenuator is described which is suitable for use in such an amplifier as part of the AGC circuit."
"At present, no satisfactory nondestructive test is known which can be practically applied in the shop to detect a weak percussive-welded connection. Also, the breaking strengths within a population of percussive welds are distributed in such a way that large sample sizes are needed to determine, with reasonable confidence, if the population contains an excessive number of weak welds. Monitoring the duration of the welding arc and the approach speed of the wire, for each weld as it is made, has been found to provide an effective control of the process. An analysis of the process yields necessary conditions which the arc duration and wire speed must satisfy. Test data are presented which confirm the necessity of these conditions, and show that when they are satisfied, percussive-welded connections can meet quality objectives."
"A systematic code of word length n is a subspace of the vector space of all possible rows of n symbols chosen from a finite field. The weight of a vector is the number of its nonzero coordinates; clearly any given code contains a certain finite number of vectors of each weight from zero to n. This set of integers is called the spectrum of the code, and very little is known about it, although it appears to be important both mathematically and as a practical means of evaluating the error-detecting properties of the code. In this paper it is shown that the spectrum of a systematic code determines uniquely the spectrum of its dual code (the orthogonal vector space). In fact the two sets of integers are related by a system of linear equations. Consequently there is a set of conditions which must be satisfied by the weights which actually occur in a systematic code. If there is enough other information about the code, it is possible to use this result to calculate its spectrum."
"Observation of surface effects of ionizing radiation on several types of transistors indicates that in reverse-biased devices these effects occur at much lower radiation dosage than in unbiased devices or bulk semiconductor material. Further, the total radiation dose rather than dose rate seems often to be the more important factor in the effect. The type of particle used in irradiation is unimportant; the significant factor is the ionization it produces. The effects seem to arise from ionization of gases within a transistor encapsulation and interaction between the ionized gas and residual semiconductor surface contaminants. This results in inversion layers at the device surface and thus in alteration of junction characteristics. The changes in device properties are not permanent, but the recovery after removal from radiation is complex and proceeds with characteristic times between seconds and days. Different types of devices may respond quite differently to exposure, and the response is different even between different batches and individuals, indicating a dependence upon device processing."
"This paper describes the development and laboratory testing of a new high-reliability solderless connector for splicing cable conductors. It includes discussion of the physical parameters which influence the performance of electrical contacts in general. The experimental and analytical techniques which evolved as part of this project permit important reductions in the amount of experimental data required to make reliability and aging predictions, and should be useful in other problems dealing with the appraisal of electrical contacts."
"The Fabry-Perot modulator, consisting of Fabry-Perot etalon plates separated by an electrooptic material such as KDP, is analyzed in detail. Time-dependent perturbation theory is used to describe the coupling of the axial modes by spatial and time varying perturbations in the dielectric constant. The perturbations are produced by the applied microwave modulating field. It is shown that the correct choice of the spatial variation of the microwave modulating field is essential to achieve efficient modulation and the choice is equivalent to matching the phase velocities of the microwaves and the light. Power requirements, heating, and bandwidth are discussed and a comparison is made to the traveling-wave modulator described by Kaminow. Calculations indicate that bandwidths of several hundred megacycles, centered at any microwave frequency, can be obtained with the expenditure of several watts of modulating power."
"Cathodoluminescent efficiency, decay time, aging characteristics, spectral distribution, and temperature dependence of luminescent emission have been measured for the more intense fast-decay phosphors. Materials studied were ZnS(Ag, Ni); ZnO(Zn) = P24; BaPbSO4; (CaO)2·MgO·(SiO2)2·(Ce) = P16; and CaO·Al2O3·(SiO)2·(Ce) = P16. The intensities of the P16 and P24 samples were observed, to a good approximation, to be proportional to the decay times. Aging due to electron bombardment was found to be fastest for BaPbSO4 and the P16 CaMg-silicate, slower for the P16 CaAl-silicate, and slowest for P24 and ZnS-(Ag, Ni). The decay was nonexponential for all the phosphors studied and the decay time became shorter with increasing beam current density. The intensity generally decreased with temperature, reaching 10 per cent of the room temperature value at about 200°C, 300°C, 350°C, 600°C, for the ZnS(Ag, Ni), BaPbSO4, P24, and CaAl-silicate, respectively. The CaMg-silicate retains 90 per cent of its 20°C intensity at a temperature of 600°C. Investigations were also conducted on optimum screen weight, effects of particle size distribution, and on screen preparation techniques, all of which will be discussed. It is concluded that phosphor characteristics differ significantly between batches and manufacturers. A detailed evaluation of the important parameters should be conducted on individual phosphor batches for applications where screen characteristics are critical."
"An automated loss and phase measuring set has been developed to measure, in a point-by-point fashion, two-port networks over the frequency range from 20 to 20,000 cps with a maximum accuracy of 0.01 db and 0.1 degree. Manual, semiautomatic, and automatic modes of operation are provided. During automatic operation, the interval between successive data points is determined by programmed intervals of frequency, loss, and phase. These quantities are programmed either separately or in combination. Machine selection of the measurement points is controlled by comparing the program with information fed back from the signal oscillator and the measured circuit. At each selected point, frequency is measured, loss and phase are determined by self-balancing standards, and these data are recorded on punched tape"
"This paper reports on some properties of the solutions to the functional equation $s_{2}(t) = \\varphi[{\\bf C}s_{2}(t) + s_{1}(t)],$ where ϕ is a nonlinear function, the operator C is a convolution, and s1 is a known function belonging to a prescribed Banach space. The equation plays a central role in the theory of signal transmission through a general physical system containing linear time-invariant elements and a single time-variable nonlinear element. In particular we establish conditions under which s2(t) is the fixed point of a contraction mapping of the Banach space into itself and we discuss some consequences of this result. As a direct application, we consider the range of validity of two simple cascade flow graphs (i.e., flow graphs without feedback loops) for approximately determining the signal distortion in nonlinear feedback systems when the distortion is small. Our discussion is not restricted to specific types of nonlinear characteristics"
"Eddy current losses in a conductor of a transmission line can be reduced if the conductor can be divided into two parallel shells and the current divided evenly between these two. According to the Clogston theory, this may be achieved if the dielectric constant of the space between these two shells is less than that of the lines' main dielectric by the right amount. This paper describes the calculation of the properties of a three-conductor Clogston line, its fabrication, the measurement of its attenuation, and additional calculations relating to the termination of the line. The calculations indicate that with a line having this structure attenuation can be reduced 24 per cent at 4 mc and about 15 per cent at 1 mc and 10 mc from that of a conventional coaxial line having the same dimensions as the one studied here. A reduction of 18 per cent instead of 24 per cent was realized in the 600-foot length of line which was built. About one-half of this difference is a result of the ideal ratio of dielectric constants not having been attained in this first attempt. It was found that ideal termination of the line is difficult. However, a simple approximation to an ideal termination yields an insertion loss for the line only a small amount larger than the ideal, provided the length of line is such that its loss is about 20 db"
"This paper is concerned with general circuits of linear, time-varying, positive, two-terminal components. It describes methods of manipulating corresponding matrix (vector) differential equations. It uses the manipulations to derive equations for power and bounds on stability. The bounds apply to the exponential factors associated with the basis functions of periodically varying circuits"
"The concentric interferometer with a limiting aperture in its mid-plane is analyzed for its mode-selective properties. Two of the lowest-order transverse modes and their losses for the infinite-strip geometry are computed by solving the associated integral equations by the method of successive approximations. The apertured concentric interferometer is found to be more mode-selective than the apertureless concentric interferometer or the Fabry-Perot interferometer with parallel plane mirrors. Computed results indicate that the optimum aperture size for maximum mode selectivity is approximately the size of the major lobe of the diffraction pattern of the dominant mode at the aperture plane. However, the maximum selectivity attainable does not exceed that of the “comparable” confocal system. The latter system is not very practical because it requires either very long resonator lengths or very small mirrors."
"A detailed analysis has been carried out of a broadband traveling-wave electro-optic light modulator using single crystals of currently available materials. The structure analyzed is that first proposed by Rigrod and Kaminow in which a light beam is reflected back and forth across a microwave transmission line with the angle between optical and microwave phase velocity vectors chosen so that the component of the optical phase velocity vector in the direction of microwave propagation is equal to the microwave phase velocity. For generality both amplitude and phase modulation are considered in single crystals belonging to three different symmetry groups, Td and D2d(Vd), (linear electro-optic effect) and Oh (quadratic effect), for two different orientations of the modulating field. The inclusion of such practical factors as microwave and optical loss results in an optimum design in which the modulator dimensions and operating temperature are uniquely determined by the optical and microwave dielectric properties of the modulating medium. The main conclusions of the analysis are: (i) Either cuprous chloride or suitably biased strontium titanate may be used to produce 50 per cent linear modulation over a bandwidth of 10 gc with less than 5 watts of modulating power, using structures a few centimeters long that have practical manufacturing and operating tolerances. (ii) The upper modulation frequency limit is set by a cutoff frequency which arises from the finite width of the optical beam. (iii) The presence of appreciable crystalline strain in the modulating medium requires that the modulating system consist of a simple phase modulator followed by some form of frequency-selective discriminator. Such a system requires monochromatic but not necessarily coherent light."
"Digital pattern variations are a major source of timing jitter in self-timed digital regenerators. In a chain of similar regenerators, the same jitter is introduced at each one. Therefore, the jitter accumulates systematically. A model is introduced to predict the accumulation of jitter in a chain of identical regenerators with single tuned timing filters. Simple expressions have been derived from the model for the response of the timing phase to sudden pattern transitions and to random patterns. These results show that the jitter grows without bound in a long chain, but its form is such that the tendency to cause errors will not increase as the chain becomes longer. Measurements on a chain of 84 regenerators in a field installation are in excellent agreement with the theory."
"Because of the shortage of suitable frequencies, it appears that it will be necessary for satellite communication systems and ground microwave systems to operate in the same frequency band. To do this without excessive interference between them requires that stringent criteria be met. This paper presents the results of radio interference tests from two test transmitter sites into the Andover, Maine, earth station receiver for experimental satellite communications. Although these sites were only 23.5 miles and 55 miles from Andover, an analysis of the results indicated that they could be used as locations for ground microwave systems with few limitations."
"Quantitative estimates of delay distortion due to mode conversion in a multimode medium are made using an analysis based on modes coupled through power-transfer coefficients. This results in a simple translation from the spatial distribution of mode conversion to delay distortion without an intermediate step in the frequency domain. The expected value of the reconversion magnitude and its delay distribution relative to a driving impulse are found for (i) the case where the undesired mode loss is distributed (helix damped modes and higher-order circular electric modes) and (ii) the case where discrete mode filters are inserted (as in smooth-walled waveguide). Numerical estimates are given for TE01 in 2-inch I.D. guides at 55 kmc. For both cases the power in the reconversion echo varies directly as the system length, and the shape of the echo is independent of length. For the case of distributed undesired mode loss the echo to impulse-excitation has an exponential shape in relative delay τ, varying as e−τ/τ 0, and for the case of partially absorbing mode filters the echo is a line-segment approximation to an exponential in τ (Fig. 4). The characteristic delay constant τ0 is about 0.035 nanosecond for helix damped modes in an all-helix line, and is about 0.106 microsecond for TE02 in either helix or smooth-walled guide. For solid-walled guide with mode filters every 300 feet the characteristic delay constant (similar to τ0) is about 2 nanoseconds. Estimates are made for signal interference effects from such echoes, taking account of the fact that the most limiting requirements on echoes in some system arrangements occur at τ ≫ τ0, where the reconversion power is small. For PCM in smooth-walled copper waveguide with mode filters every 300 or 150 feel, it is concluded that pulse rates of 200 or 400 megabits might be used, with up to 20 or 40 miles respectively between regenerators; beat wavelength straightness variation mode conversion is controlling. for PCM in an all-helix waveguide, it is confluded that a pulse rate up to 5000 megabits and up to 746 miles between regenerators is permitted by mode conversion effects; diameter variations (TE02 conversion) are controlling. For transmission of frequency division multiplex multiplex via a frequency-modulated carrier (FDM-FM), estimates based on the discrete-echo theory of Bennett, Curtis and Rice suggest that 4000-mile transmission of 2000 channel groups is possible in all-helix waveguide; diameter variations are controlling. An rms frequency deviations (σ) increase the allowed system length (z) according to z ≈ (σ)2.8 Even in solid-walled waveguide there is a good prospect for 4000-mile FDM-FM using guide toleraces already achievable. Separate consideration is being given to delay distortion due to wave-guide cutoff dispersion, which will be appreciable in some configurations described and will require equalization."
"Following a suggestion of H. E. Rowe, the first-order system of coupled differential equations with the independent variables representing amplitudes of coupled modes (the so-called coupled mode equations) has been rigorously transformed into similar equations with the independent variables representing the power in the coupled modes for the case where the amplitude coupling coefficient is a Gaussian random process with a white noise spectrum and zero mean value. Coupled mode equations in power have proven useful, and this work provides formal justification and identification of the variables and parameters The equations may allow one to approach coupled-mode problems directly for statistical results"
"Long-distance, high-capacity transmission via the TE01 mode in circular waveguide is an attractive goal because the theoretical attenuation caused by heat loss decreases monotonically as the frequency of operation increases. However, continuous random mode conversion caused by the manufacturing or the laying of the waveguide causes severe random fluctuations with frequency in the transfer function of present-day waveguide, a fact which apparently eliminates all but the “toughest” modulation schemes, such as pulse code modulation and angle modulation In this paper, we present the derivation of a technique for analyzing the effects of continuous random mode conversion on an angle-modulated wave. The random coupling coefficient is assumed to have a Gaussian probability density. The modulating signal is assumed to be a single-sideband frequency division multiplex which may be simulated by a band of random Gaussian noise. The quantity of interest is the expected value of the interchannel interference noise which appears at baseband. A self-contained section on principal results and examples is presented. The examples use typical state-of-the-art data and are significant in that they demonstrate that FM appears to be an attractive modulation scheme. They are, however, not meant to be an exhaustive study of the problem. Copper waveguide (with and without mode filters) and helix waveguide are considered. The Fourier series, multiple-echo representation of a stochastic transfer function presented in this paper should prove useful in handling other modulation schemes as well as other random channels"
"The assumption of zero differential loss between coupling modes in a multimode transmission line reduces the complexity of theoretical analysis. Here we show that in general the approximate solution including differential loss between modes may be computed by convolving the solution for the case of zero differential loss with the Fourier transform of exp (− | Δαu|). The rapidity of loss variation versus frequency is limited to (2Δα/Δβ)f for transmission lines with high Δα"
"A class of Markov stochastic processes xt, suitable as models for random traffic in connecting networks with blocked calls cleared, is described and analyzed. These models take into account the structure of the connecting network, the set S of its permitted states, the random epochs at which new calls are attempted and calls in progress are ended, and the method used for routing calls. The probability of blocking, or the fraction of blocked attempts, is defined in a rigorous way as the stochastic limit of a ratio of counter readings, and a formula for it is given in terms of the stationary probability vector p of xt. This formula is ${(p, \\beta) \\over (p, \\alpha)}, \\quad {\\rm or} \\quad {\\sum\\limits_{x \\epsilon S}P_{x}\\beta_{x} \\over \\sum\\limits_{x \\epsilon S}P_{x}\\alpha_{x},$ where βx is the number of blocked idle inlet-outlet pairs in state x, and αx is the number of idle inlet-outlet pairs in state x. On the basis of this formula, it is shown that in some cases a simple algebraic relationship exists between the blocking probability b, the traffic parameter λ (the calling rate per idle inlet-outlet pair), the mean m of the load carried, and the variance σ2 of the load carried. For a one-sided connecting network of T inlets (= outlets), this relation is $1-b={1 \\over \\lambda}{2_{m} \\over (t-2_{m}^{2}- (T-2m)+4\\sigma^{2}};$ for a two-sided network with N inlets on one side and M outlets on the other, it is $1-b= {m \\over (N-m)(M-m)+ \\sigma^{2}}.$ The problem of calculating the vector p of stationary state provabilities is fully resolved in principle by three explicit formulas for the components of p: a determinant formula, a sum of products along paths on S, and an expansion in a power series around any point \\lambda ≧ 0. The formulas all indicate how these state probabilities depend on the structure of the connecting network, the traffic parameter λ, and the method of routing."
"A spectral analysis has been performed on a number of spoken vowel sounds, in particular those sounds causing digit registration in a TOUCH-TONE receiver. The analysis, implemented by computer methods, provides a definitive picture of the nature of digit simulation in TOUCH-TONE calling."
"A quantitative explanation of tropospheric radio propagation is derived without the use of arbitrary numerical factors. It is based primarily on the average value and the standard deviation of the index of refraction at the earth's surface, both of which decrease exponentially with height. This method seems to bridge the gap between the internal reflection and scatter hypotheses. The quantitative results are in good agreement with experimental data on distance dependence, frequency dependence, climatic and seasonal variations, and effective antenna gain. One consequence is a new concept of the decrease in effective gain of narrow-beam antennas, which accounts for some hitherto unexplained experimental results."
"A brief history of the problem of echoes and delay in telephone connections is first given. Actual delays involved in typical circuits are shown. This is followed by a discussion of the effects of delay only on typical conversations. The sources of echo in typical telephone connections are then discussed, together with measures which have been taken to reduce echo by improving return loss. Methods of controlling the effects of delayed echo are then summarized; the summary includes a brief introduction to echo suppressors and some of the new problems they introduce"
"An elementary echo suppressor is described which consists of a single voice-operated switch located at each end of a four-wire toll connection. It is shown that this circuit is unsuitable for telephone conversations if there is an appreciable delay between the speakers. Modifications and additions to the elementary echo suppressor are made in an effort to improve its performance. Action in the presence of break-in speech is discussed in some detail. The operation of four present-day echo suppressors is described"
"The effect of transmission delay upon the quality of a telephone circuit was investigated using naturally occurring telephone conversations. Round-trip delays of 600 and 1200 msec went almost unnoticed at first when no echo sources or echo suppressors were present in the circuit. After exposure to pure delays of up to 2400 msec, considerable dissatisfaction, indicated by rejection of the circuit, developed with the 600- and 1200-msec delays. When echo sources and echo suppressors were added to the circuit, some dissatisfaction developed immediately for round-trip delays of 600 and 1200 msec. No adaptation to the effects of delay occurred; in fact dissatisfaction increased with experience under certain conditions."
"The orientation of a satellite can be calculated if the aspect of two or more known reference vectors can be measured with respect to a body-fixed coordinate frame. On the Telstar satellites one such line may be determined by solar aspect cells, but the other is determined by ground observation of flashes of sunlight reflected from three mirrors mounted on the spinning satellite. The simple geometric considerations are discussed, as are the optimum placement of the mirrors, the amount of data to be used, and an error analysis. Spin-axis orientation data are used as the basis for steering the spin axis by ground command of the current in a coil of wire around the equator of the satellite."
"It is well known from our day-to-day experience that distant objects appear to shimmer, especially on still, hot hays when relatiively large temperature and humidity gradients may exits. It is ture, however, that refractive index gradients are in the air to some degree at all times; that is, they may be present at night and also when the air is disturbed by the winds. It is not suprising therefore that the power received at some distance from an optical source fluctuates randomly and possesses a characteristic low-frequency power spectrum."
"This note relates to circuits of linear periodically time-varying, positive capacitors and inductors. More specifically, it notes a property of the basis functions, or natural modes which describe the transient behavior of the circuits. Some other properties of the basis functions are described in Ref. 1 in this issue."
"This brief paper describes a tunnel diode oscillator which has been built by using a single diode in a low-impedance strip transmission line."
"A highly sensitive pocket receiver with a code-responsive signaling device has been designed for the 150-megacycle BELLBOY personal signaling system. Ten transistors in a single-IF, superheterodyne receiver circuit convert the FM signaling wave to produce excitation of a sound generator through a tuned reed selector circuit. Printed wiring and novel packaging techniques are employed to produce a receiver of acceptable size and weight. A rechargeable battery with provision for home charging or a primary battery is used for power supply. A discussion of design problems and an analysis of circuit performance is included. Sensitivity sufficient to signal in a 20-microvolt per meter field is achieved."
"Two new theoretical models for representing random traffic in connecting networks are presented. The first is called the “thermodynamic” model and is studied in detail. The second model is formulated in an effort to take methods of routing into account and to meet certain drawbacks of the “thermodynamic” model in describing customer behavior; since it is more realistic than the first, it leads to results that are vastly more complicated and must be described in another paper. The “thermodynamic” model is worth considering for four reasons: (1) It is faithful to the structure of real connecting systems. Indeed it is an improvement over many previous models in that it only considers physically accessible states of the connecting network, while the latter suffer the drawback that a large fraction of the network states on which calculation is based are physically meaningless, being unreachable under normal operation. (2) It gives rise to a relatively simple theory in which explicit calculations are possible. (3) The “thermodynamic” model provides a good simple description of traffic in the interior of a large communications network. (4) It has an analogy to statistical mechanics which permits us to be guided by the latter theory as we try to use the model to understand the properties of large-scale connecting systems. The two models to be described differ in only one respect. In the first (the “thermodynamic”) model, the system moves from a state x to a state y that has one more call in progress, at a rate λ the effective calling-rate per idle inlet-outlet pair is thus proportional to the number of paths usable in x from that inlet to that outlet. In the second model, the calling-rate per idle inlet-outlet pair is set at λ, and is then spread over the paths usable in x from that inlet to that outlet in accordance with some routing rule. This provides a mathematical description of routing, and avoids the unwelcome feature that a single customer's calling-rate depends on the state of the network."
"The equations for the flexural vibrations of a propped cantilever beam have been used to compute a number of the vibration characteristics of such beams for the first five modes over the range of prop locations from 50 to 100 per cent of the length. Plots of these characteristics are included in the paper. This material has been prepared primarily for use in studies of contact spring vibration, and such application is briefly discussed. The mathematical treatment used to obtain the relations given is outlined in an Appendix."
"This paper presents phase tables for use in determining phase from amplitude or vice versa at optical and higher frequencies. The new tables, combined with tables previously published by the author, are believed to make possible the determination of phase from amplitude or vice versa of any minimum phase function occurring in any area of the physical sciences, and at any place in the frequency spectrum. The phase is determined by a summation process based on Bode's straight-line approximation method. The paper gives a brief historical background of the method, discusses the application of the numerical phase summation technique to optical and higher frequencies, describes the derivation of new tabulations useful at these frequencies, and gives quantitative examples of their use. A table expanding the existing tables of phase of a semi-infinite unit slope near f/f0 equal to one is given. Additional tables of phase of a unit line segment and a new straight-line element, the unit wedge, are given. Finally, there is a brief discussion of the potential of the method in solving physical and engineering problems."
"Six parameters of importance in many communication systems are: (a) the rate at which digital information is transmitted; (b) the bandwidth of the system; (c) the signal power of the transmitted signals; (d) the noise power of disturbances in transmission; (e) the error probability in digits recovered at the receiver output; (f) the length of time that the transmitter and receiver can store their inputs. These six parameters cannot assume arbitrary values: certain sets of values cannot be realized. In a series of curves, this paper describes the boundary between compatible and incompatible sets of parameter values. In the model studied, it is assumed that the disturbance is additive Gaussian noise with constant power density spectrum in the transmission band."
"Traffic delay, caused by temporary all-lines-busy conditions, is analyzed for three mathematical switching models. They are classified as “address camp-on,” “retrial,” and “message storage” models. The models are designed to permit a study of basic traffic theoretical problems encountered in the rapidly growing field of data communications, but they are not identical with any of the existing data switching systems. Each model assumes that a message is switched only through one switching center which must establish connections via line groups to one or more addressed receiving stations, i.e., each model contains only a single switching center. Numerical results for the average delay on all messages are obtained on the IBM 7090 computer."
"This papers that follow describe in depth the satellite and ground systems designed for the Telstar experiment and give the results to date. The purpose of this introduction is to set the scene in which the project was undertaken and to state some genetal conclusions."
"For several years before the launch of the Telstar satellite, research effort was directed toward an experiment with an active satellite capable of relaying a broadband communication channel. The intention was to utilize and test a number of novel techniques which had become available, to explore those areas in which the current technology was lacking, and to demonstrate the feasibility of this means of communication. This paper describes some of this work, the background of facts and beliefs on the basis of which a number of important choices were made, and the general state of the radio art upon which the Telstar program was built."
"This paper describes the Telstar system and discusses the over-all system design. System considerations, the orbit selection and frequency allocation considerations are covered. A general description of the Telstar satellite and Andover, Maine, ground station provides background for companion articles in this series. Finally, the transmission performance is given with some discussion of system parameters."
"The Telstar spacecraft design is discussed with emphasis on the electronics system. The description includes early planning, starting with frequency allocation considerations, and carries the program through electrical and mechanical design, construction and evaluation of the electronics system. The content is aimed at a broad introduction, depending on companion papers for many details of the spacecraft design."
"This paper describes the electrical characteristics of the waveguide components, the solid-state circuits and the traveling-wave tube used in the microwave communications repeater. The reflex-circuit method of obtaining local oscillator signals for the modulators and certain circuit stability problems are discussed."
"The spacecraft employs two microwave antennas for communications and a single VHF antenna for telemetry, beacon, and command functions. One microwave antenna centered at 6 gc is used to receive broadband signals from a ground transmitter while the other microwave antenna centered at 4 gc is used to transmit signals to a ground receiver. Each microwave antenna is composed of a large number of circularly polarized radiating elements equally spaced around the equator of the spacecraft and connected to the electronic receiver and transmitter by a complex precision feed system. The VHF antenna is a small multi-element helix mounted at the pole of the spacecraft and radiates a linearly polarized signal. All antennas provide nearly isotropic antenna patterns with the axis of symmetry corresponding to the spin axis of the spacecraft. The antenna systems were constructed of light, but rugged, materials and passed extensive electrical, mechanical, and thermal tests."
"The radiation experiments on the Telstar spacecraft were designed to measure the electron and proton particle distributions in the region of space explored by the satellite orbit and to give information on the integral semiconductor radiation damage produced by these particles. A solar aspect experiment is included with the radiation experiments because of its direct importance to solar cell damage results. The design and the hardware for these experiments are described in the present paper. Results of the experiments are included in a companion paper in this issue."
"The power supply system in the Telstar spacecraft consists of a solar cell plant to convert solar radiation to electrical energy when the satellite is illuminated by the sun, a 19-cell nickel-cadmium battery to store energy, and a regulation circuit to supply constant output voltages over a wide variation in input voltages. Additionally, the power supply system provides switching to conserve power and allow battery recharging during periods between communications experiments."
"This paper covers the general structural and thermal design considerations of the Telstar satellite. The basic objectives were to maintain the electronic components in a near room temperature environment and to protect the electronics packge from high-frequency vibration excitation. These objectives were relized by dividing satellite into two lumped masses, the shell and the centrally located electronics package, and by utilizing nylon lacing for support of the electronics package. The package was provided with an active temperature control, regulating radiative heat flow between the skin and the package. Results of on-the-ground experimental evaluation and of telemetry data are given."
"Considerations guiding the planning and execution of environmental tests in the development, design qualification and flight acceptance phases of the Telstar satellite program are discussed. Specific test procedures are covered and highlights of test results involving mechanical, thermal and magnetic properties of the spacecraft are reviewed."
"The command and telemetry portions of the Telstar system provide necessary support functions for the basic communications experiment and the radiation experiment. By means of the command system, the states of 9 magnetic latching relays in the satellite are controlled from the ground. Commands are sent to the satellite by coded signals modulated on a carrier in the VHF band. The telemetry system also uses a VHF carrier to transmit encoded information from the satellite. Data on 112 items are provided once each minute. This paper discusses the over-all command and telemetry systems and considers the general objectives, system aspects and detailed implementation."
"Ground station equipment for the Telstar experiment includes a 6-kmc transmitter and a 4-kmc receiver used for television and telephone channels. This paper describes the over-all transmitting and receiving arrangements and presents detailed accounts of the RF and power-supply subsystems. Information is also presented on protection, control and equipment features, and on receiver noise performance."
"This paper describes the design and theory of operation of the wideband FM demodulator with feedback (FMFB receiver) used at the Andover, Maine, earth station for Telstar satellite communications tests. Performance data for the FMFB receiver indicate a clear advantage over the conventional FM receiver in many cases. The principal advantage lies in the ability of the FMFB receiver to raise the threshold at which “breaking” occurs for TV and other wideband signals."
"This paper describes the mechanical design of the horn-reflector antenna and the associated radome. The mechanical considerations dictating the final configuration of the antenna structure are discussed, along with the engineering aspects of the design, fabrication, and erection of the structure. The mechanical features of the data take-off and antenna drive systems are given in detail. The final section presents an account of the requirements, manufacture, and installation of the radome and its accessory equipment."
"The conical horn-reflector antenna was selected for the satellite communication ground station because of its broadband and low-noise properties. Prior to the construction of the full-size antenna, theoretical and model studies of its electrical characteristics were undertaken. These studies consisted of computing gain and radiation patterns for two modes of excitation, constructing of model antennas and measuring them. Results of these studies are presented in this paper together with results of the measurements of the full size antenna at Andover, Maine."
"This paper is a description of the antenna pointing system used in the satellite ground station at Andover, Maine. It is an introduction to the following five papers in this issue, which describe and discuss in some detail the various major parts and features of the antenna pointing system. In order that the antenna have sufficient gain for the Telstar experiment, it was necessary that it have a “pencil” beam of about ${1 \\over 5}$ degree in diameter. This requires an antenna pointing system of high accuracy. The equipment and methods required to achieve this accuracy are outlined."
"This paper describes the digital control and data processing portions of the antenna pointing system used to track the Telstar satellite. The description is functional in nature, giving the form of the inputs, the functions performed, and the outputs produced. A general description of the digital equipment is followed by a discussion of the functions performed by the subsystems, the operational modes provided, the equipment features, and the operating experience."
"This paper describes the servo system for pointing the horn-reflector antenna. It presents the general considerations which dictated the design and also describes the resulting system in some detail, giving the characteristics of the various parts of the system. Finally, the over-all performance of the servo system is discussed."
"The autotrack system accurately senses the direction of arrival, at the horn-reflector antenna, of the microwave beacon signal from the communications satellite. When this direction does not coincide with the horn-reflector pointing direction, error correcting voltages are automatically generated to enable the antenna direction system to steer the antenna toward the satellite. This paper presents a simple analysis of error voltage generation, a description of the system, and a brief discussion of system performance. Measurements at Andover, Maine, have shown that an angular pointing error of less than 0.005 degree is maintained by the antenna when using the autotrack system to follow the Telstar communications satellite."
"The precision tracker, a simultaneous lobing, amplitude-comparison, passive, continuous-wave tracker based in principle and design upon a monopulse tracking radar, is employed at the Andover, Maine, and Pleumeur-Bodou, France, stations to find the satellite and direct the horn-reflector antennas when required and, at regular intervals during subsequent passes, to provide the precise tracking data required for prediction of future orbital parameters."
"Orbit determination and prediction programs are needed to generate ephemerides for the satellite. Orbit determination is from tracking data consisting of angles only, and is based on a modified version of a method by R. E. Briggs and J. W. Slowey of the Smithsonian Institution. Trends in the data due to perturbations from a Keplerian orbit are removed before this process, and estimates of the orbital elements from individual passes are combined statistically to produce refined estimates. Ephemeris calculation is by a semi-analytic method in which deviations from a Keplerian orbit are obtained by integrating the perturbing forces. The programs to implement these procedures have been written for both the IBM 7090 and the IBM 1620 computers."
"This paper relates some of the considerations in the planning of the Andover, Maine, earth station. It describes the station layout, the operating plan and the Long Lines interconnections. Power facilities, air conditioning, heating and dehumidification arrangements are also covered"
"The facility for satellite communication studies at Holmdel, New Jersey, was originally established to take part in Project Echo. This paper describes the modifications required to participate in the Telstar experiments and the results obtained during operations from July 10 to November 9, 1962. Reception of television from the satellite was successfully accomplished, studies were made of the signal levels, and the changes with time of the satellite spin rate and spin axis orientation were determined"
"The launching of the Telstar satellite from Cape Canaveral is described, with emphasis on the pre-launch testing and test facilities"
"This paper describes how the Telstar satellite has performed in space. Included is information on changes in the temperature, spin rate, spin-axis precession, orbital parameters and power levels of the satellite signals, and comments on the behavior of the electrical circuits in the space environment"
"The data from the particle experiments of the Telstar satellite have been analyzed to provide maps of the distribution of electrons and protons as measured in three of the Telstar detectors during the period from July through October, 1962. For the protons between 26 and 34 Mev and >50 Mev, the particle distributions are stable in time, but for the electron distribution there is a time decay of the electron flux over most of the region explored by the Telstar orbit. The connection of these observations to the high-altitude nuclear explosion of July 9, 1962, is discussed. The introduction of additional electrons by Russian tests at the end of October was also observed. The particle maps have been used to derive the integral particle exposure of the satellite, which is found to account quantitatively quite well for the radiation damage observed in the main solar power plant and in the radiation damage experiments on solar cells and special damage transistors carried by the satellite. In the main power plant the proton and electron contributions to damage are found to be equal. The integral particle exposure has also been used to compute the level of ionization in different depths of material in order to evaluate the degradation of semiconductor devices in the Telstar canister"
"The results of the communications tests on the Telstar satellite system which have been conducted at the Andover earth station are presented. These tests have included successful transmissions of telephone, television, and data signals. In addition, measurements of received carrier power, noise, transmission characteristics, linearity, data system errors, absolute delay, and Doppler shift have been made. The results are in good agreement with the expected performance"
"Loss of the command function of the Telstar satellite first occurred on Novemb 4, 1962. There had been earlier indications of degraded performance. Facts are presented which led to the conclusion that the malfunction of the command system was due to surface damage to certain transistors in the redundant command decoders by the enhanced radiation in the inner Van Allen belt. Correction steps have included laboratory experiments to gain a better understanding of the cause of failure, the use of continuous normal commands, commands transmitted from Johannesburg, South Africa, and specially modified commands to circumvent failure of the more vulnerable transistors. The operations which aided in the gradual rejuvenation of both command decoders are described. Also covered are the subsequent reappearance of the command system malfunction on February 21, 1963, and its correlation with the variation of the average radiation intensity seen by the satellite"
"The Telstar project required a variety of components and structures of high reliability. The program for obtaining these components was essentially that originated for submarine cable devices, in which designs of proven integrity were manufactured under controlled conditions, screened and aged to remove defectives, and then life tested and certified using techniques for selecting the most stable components. This program summary illustrates in principle the techniques described in detail in the body of this components section of the issue"
"Components for a high-reliability system such as the Telstar project are obtained by: (a) design of the component for the required environment, (b) careful control of manufacturing processes, (c) elimination of potential early failures by screening tests, and (d) selection of the most stable components. For passive components, these methods could be applied by using design parameters, suppliers and screening techniques established in the earlier submarine cable program, with consideration being given to the additional effects of the satellite launch and orbit environments. Semiconductor component designs were selected by qualification tests using accelerated electrical and environmental stress conditions. Screening tests were applied to eliminate early failures, and resulting components were aged from two to six months before selection for the satellite. The recognition of the effect of ionizing radiation on transistors caused the addition of a radiation qualification test, or a screening to assure selection of the least sensitive devices. Tests have shown this screening to be effective for the radiation intensity expected. Experience with the passive components, and evaluation of the accelerated test results and aging data of the semiconductor devices, indicate that the reliability objective was obtained"
"The storage battery for the Telstar satellite must undergo frequent charge-discharge cycles; in addition, it is subject to overcharge during a substantial portion of its life. Nickel-cadmium cells were chosen as best capable of satisfactory long-time operation under these conditions. A design and selection program was undertaken to ensure that Ni-Cd cores would meet objectives imposed by battery service conditions, and the cell enclosure was designed to minimize electrolyte leakage. Selection, qualification, and life tests indicated that a storage battery using the cell design would perform satisfactorily. To date, the only failures occurring during continuing life tests have been among cells subjected to 100 per cent discharge daily; this operation is far in excess of the expected duty cycle of satellite cells"
"The traveling-wave tube amplifier described provides a minimum output power of 3.5 watts at 4.0 to 4.2 gc. Design aspects that lead to lifetimes in excess of 10 years and to tube efficiencies between 35 to 40 per cent are discussed. The tube is focused by an improved version of the single-reversal magnetic circuit. Performance data pertinent to this particular satellite operation are shown. Highlights from the final production run and the subsequent life test serve to illustrate the care with which this TWT has been built"
"The electronics system of the Telstar satellite is described from the point of view of philosophy of design and construction rather than that of circuit details. The reliability is emphasized, and steps taken to preserve the inherent reliability of the components are discussed. The physical construction of modules, subsystems, and finally the entire system is described, including the foam encapsulation and the eventual hermetic sealing of the canister"
"Objectives in development of the solar plant for the Telstar spacecraft were to provide a power source which would withstand launching stresses and the expected space environment, with optimum end-of-life performance. Radiation damage to the silicon solar cells is the primary factor limiting their useful life; the effect of energetic protons or electrons is the generation of recombination centers in the silicon which reduce the minority-carrier diffusion length and therefore the long-wave response of the cell. The spacecraft solar cells use the n-on-p structure, in preference to conventional p-on-n structure, to obtain a factor of 3 to 10 increased life expectancy. Response to light in the 0.4 to 0.7 micron range is enhanced by using a thin n-layer (about 0.5 micron) and an antireflection coating with minimum reflectance at 0.55 micron wavelength. Early estimates of electron and proton fluxes in the satellite orbit showed that even the best cells would not give sufficient life without radiation shielding. Therefore the cells are protected against electrons of energy up to 1 Mev by 0.3 gm/cm2 sapphire cover plates. The cell mountings are designed to withstand peak vibration stresses of 200 g and repeated temperature cycles from +65°C to −100°C. The 3600-cell solar power plant is composed of 300 twelve-cell groups of 1 cm × 2 cm cells, yielding a nominal initial power of 14 watts at 28 volts for any spin-axis orientation relative to the sun. Telemetry information on performance of the solar plant indicates degradation of the shielded solar cells equal to that measured in the laboratory on unshielded cells with a 1-Mev normal incidence flux of 6 × 1012 electrons/(cm2 day). From this comparison it is estimated that the plant will degrade to 68 per cent of its initial output after two years in orbit"
"To limit the 4080-mc local oscillator signal power input to the beat oscillator modulator of the Telstar satellite communications repeater, a subsidiary absorption limiter was used which consisted of an optically polished sphere of single-crystal yttrium iron garnet (YIG), placed in a resonant transmission cavity between the amplified 4080-mc output of the traveling-wave tube and the BO modulator input. The limiter holds the output power nearly constant above a given input threshold; below this threshold the YIG is linear and introduces only a small loss. The threshold is determined, for a given sample at a given frequency, by the external magnetic bias field. Temperature compensation over the desired range was obtained by orienting the crystal with the dc magnetic field along a [100] or “hard” axis. The total weight of the limiter package, including the bias magnet and cavity, is 13 ounces"
"The M4040 is a 2-kw CW traveling-wave tube developed specifically for communications applications. It was used as the power amplifier in the Project Telstar ground transmitter. Analytic methods employed in the design of the electron gun, the beam collector, the RF circuit and the output match are presented. Typical performance characteristics and drawings of the tube subassemblies serve to describe the electrical and physical features of the M4040 traveling-wave tube. Methods used to inhibit oscillation and the effects of ion drainage and collector depression on tube performance are also discussed"
"This paper discusses the design and characteristics of ruby traveling-wave masers operating at 4 gc. These masers, characterized by an average gain of ≈35 db over a bandwidth of 25 mc, are equipped with waveguide input transmission lines, rather than the previously employed coaxial cables. This change results in an over-all noise temperature of 3.5°K for these devices, rather than the 10°K exhibited by earlier masers. The maser noise temperature now closely approximates sky temperatures, which set the ultimate limit on earthbound receiver sensitivity. The improvements to be had by further reduction in amplifier noise are therefore almost negligible. A less well known maser property, i.e., its freedom from distortion, even when driven well into gain saturation, is discussed"
"This paper describes the design and performance of a 4-gc parametric amplifier which meets the stringent requirements of a satellite ground station receiver. It consists of two cascaded stages of similar design: the first of these is operated at liquid nitrogen temperature and the second at room temperature. One 23-gc pump source is used for both amplifier stages. The combination of the two amplifier stages provides 38-db over-all gain, 45°K over-all system input noise temperature, 60-mc bandwidth, 0.1-db short-term gain stability and 0.3-db long-term gain stability. A carefully designed cryogenic system maintains the amplifier refrigerated with only infrequent refilling of the dewar, i.e., once every 10 days"
"When a new administration is inducted into office, the President usually presents a “Message to Congress,” outlining the scope of the term ahead. So, as your new President, I have a “Message to Society Members,” outlining a program to further the purposes, the acceptance, the success of our 47-year-old, firmly established, well-founded Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers."
"By horizontal projection of 16mm film on which is printed two tracks of half-size 16mm pictures, each provided with a half-width optical sound recording, a system called A/16 Format has been designed. Because standard 16mm film stock is used, laboratory processing cost is half that for 16mm and less than 8mm magnetic sound prints for the same running time. The format provides a moderate wide-screen ratio, image quality superior to 8mm because of the larger picture area, and optical sound quality nearly equivalent to 16mm. Dual tracks eliminate rewind, and the film is well suited for use in a cartridge, to eliminate handling. Other applications include three-dimensional and dual picture presentation."
"Proposed is a standard reduction technique for 35mm to 8mm which reduces two rows of picture images side by side on 16mm film. The pulldown perforations are in the center of the 16mm film and the two soundtracks are at the outer edges. This preserves on 8mm the 35mm wide-screen aspect ratios. The 16mm reduction carrying two rows of picture images is not slit; instead, the projector is arranged for alternate projection of each row."
"A 16mm sound motion-picture projector has been developed to include automatic threading of motion-picture film through the entire film path thereby eliminating the complexity of manual threading. The mechanism is equipped with movable guides to form the proper size of loops and tensions. It also has an automatic loop restoring device to retain the proper size of lower loop."
"Equipment and operational procedure of The Bell System's Telstar satellite are described with reference to its communications function. The satellite's electrical circuits are divided into three parts for purposes of explanation: communications repeater, command and telemetry system, and power plant. Three subsystems comprising the ground station are described: communications, antenna direction, and command and telemetry. Orbital data and the results of linear transmission tests are given."
"Intercontinental exchange of TV programs raises the problem of standards conversion. The case is examined for changing the 525-line system to 625 lines, and vice versa. Common standards are proposed for the video signal but channel spacing, allocation, and sound-to-vision carrier spacing would remain as at present. No changes would be required to receivers or transmitters, and only small changes to studio equipment. Conversion of the 625 line system to 525 lines would give a larger improvement in picture quality than the reverse procedure. No problem is anticipated with N.T.S.C., Iowa or SECAM color systems."
"The use of pin registration is almost necessary in making good motion pictures and is indispensable where process photography or double-exposure techniques are used. Demands for camera steadiness are discussed and pertinent factors in construction and operation are described. The importance of controlling relative humidity and temperature is stressed. Pin design and positioning are discussed with reference to the big pin-little pin system and style of perforations is considered. Guiding methods are discussed, with emphasis on the edge-and-point system. Errors caused by faults in design, workmanship and maintenance are cited."
"This paper points out a number of false notions about the design, operation, maintenance and control of a color densitometer, and the utilization of its measurements. The basic optical principles of a typical color densitometer are described. The relationships between these color density measurements and any other set of reliable color density measurements is discussed. The common pitfalls are discussed in detail. These are classified into operational, control and maintenance errors."
"Increased reliability, improved electrical performance and considerable operating economies can be obtained by operating TV transmitters in parallel. The degree of paralleling required, the maintenance of correct phasing, and the use of split-feed antennas are described. The problems of monitoring and fault detection are discussed with relation to the largest installation in North America, that of CFTM and CFCF-TV in Montreal. A staff of eight persons runs all shifts on four TV and two stereo FM transmitters in two languages."
"Initially, European television film production methods followed procedures set by the cinema, the only substantial difference being the use of 16mm film with magnetic sound. However, the special requirements dictated by television have given rise to new methods of production and film handling. These include the use of 16mm film in conjunction with the Pilot-Tone technique for live telecasts and the use of 35mm film in conjunction with the Electronic Cam procedure for feature film production. Similarly, these production methods have initiated the development of new magnetic sound equipment."
"Norman Dawn's early career as cameraman, director and producer is outlined. The special-effects techniques which he developed, including glass and matte shots, are described."
"A machine to transfer sound from a |16mm master to four 8mm magnetic sound release prints at double speed is described."
"Optimum color quality and film protection for processing Ektachrome original color film have been achieved by Calvin Productions, Inc., through the described engineering improvements in color processing machine design."
"The fundamental optical principles involved in the projection of film into a television camera are reviewed. First, direct projection into a vidicon tube is cited. Then the relay system with its intermediate image is described in terms of the function of each optical element, the importance of proper alignment, and the mistakes to be avoided when a film chain is set up. Next, the requirements of multiplexing systems are discussed. Finally, three basic optical formulas are given by which approximate values can be obtained to aid in the design and coordination of equipment."
"The Group of eleven papers which follows is largely an outgrowth of presentations made at a Symposium titled “Television as a Means of Instructional Communication,” held on the campus of Los Angeles State College on Saturday, September 21, 1962, and jointly sponsored by the Hollywood Section of the SMPTE and Los Angeles State College."
"The optical tunnel consists of four front-surfaced mirrors carefully aligned to form a tunnel of exactly square cross-section. In combination with a lens this device is capable of projecting several hundred images of one object on a screen. The converse is also true, namely, that it makes possible the projection of several hundred different objects into one position. The principle of the optical tunnel and the parameters which need to be considered in its design are outlined. This unique device makes possible the solution of several difficult electrooptical problems. Applications include; an electronic ideographic (Chinese characters) composing machine; a universal print reading machine; and a random access memory."
"A system (called The Rotosyn System) was designed to synchronize film transport mechanisms. It has found its way into the studios of Europe and other countries. It permits the synchronous drive of film transport mechanisms which are fitted with a standard synchronous motor. The principle of the system is that three-phase a-c power is supplied with a frequency rising from 0 to 50 cycles, and a voltage which is in accordance with the increasing impedance. The power is supplied by a Rotosyn converter which is relay-controlled in starting and stopping. The advantage of this system is that the film transport mechanisms may be operated either from power line or from Rotosyn supply and need not be fitted with special motors."
"An examination of the major complaints against present-day film processors is made to determine: (a) if each is truly unavoidable in film processing, or, (b) if there are ways to overcome or eliminate the problems. The results of the analysis yield the design criteria of a new processor. The practical application of the design resulted in a modern film-processor. The practical application of the design resulted in a modern film-processing machine."
"A printer has been devised and built to produce simultaneously four 8mm color positive reduction prints from a single pass of the color internegative. The optical arrangement of the printer and details of its construction are described."
"This Society's History is one of standardization. This is true to an extent somewhat greater than might appear to the reader of the Society's publications (Transactions from 1916 until 1930, then the Journal) since standards are brief documents. Brief though they may be, they represent contributions of much time and experience from engineers in our Society."
"Foreign schools belonging to the International Association of Schools of Cinema and Television have become increasingly aware of the educational applications of these media and the increased employment they will provide. Traditional professional training methods in Europe are reviewed and the role which the United States can play in developing the training for, and production of, foreign educational films and film makers are discussed."
"The Army's exploitation of visual media for education, training and tactical applications places a continuous requirement for personnel trained in motion-picture and television production and for skilled technicians to operate and maintain equipment. Increased emphasis upon research and development requires greater numbers of personnel experienced in photographic instrumentation. The historical development of Army photographic training, the training program existing today and anticipated future needs are discussed."
"The motion picture has long been used in connection with university programs of instruction, research and public information. A recent survey of university production facilities shows a remarkable professionalization of equipment, a growing number of films being produced, and the development of a concern, on the part of university administrations, for more and better use of the motion picture in higher education. The long view of university film production shows growth—often associated with the growth of television activities—in a variety of patterns resulting in a variety of kinds of films ranging from the highly technical to the highly creative. The close-up view of the work of the Motion-Picture Division of the Ohio State University's Department of Photography exemplifies the contribution of the university-Produced film to education."
"The growth and effectiveness of educational television as well as increasing enrollments provide the basis for a discussion on the function of television in the University. The Ohio State University is used as a case study. Both broadcast and closed-circuit installations are discussed and their service to the campus and community is cited. Equipment, programing and stations of the closed-circuit network are described."
"After discussion of a rationale for film-making by educators, examples are drawn from the three-pronged approach operating at Indiana University. An examination of characteristics inherent in (1) student films, (2) departmental service films and (3) educational films for general public use is given. Production procedures common to the three categories are considered."
"At Indiana University, as at many other universities, educational film production serves as a laboratory for training students. Problems develop in trainee-assistant programs which are not found in commercial practice: crew members are inexperienced, scheduling around class and teaching assignments compounds problems. Yet quality productions are required to help finance the program. In such a laboratory, the educational film is defined, studied and tested as well as produced."
"There were educational and historical circumstances which led to the development of the educational film to accompany a textbook (the Text-Film). Selection of subject matter, function of educational and production personnel, and production procedures for current films are described. The Systems approach, an extension of the Text-Film concept, is cited."
"The production of single-concept films, films characterized by their shortness, is increasing. The scope of five educational projects utilizing the single-concept film are reviewed. These films are described with reference to subject matter, intended audience and photographic techniques."
"The 8mm recording of magnetic sound on film is discussed from the point of view of head manufacture for, and function in, this type of equipment. Various head parameters are discussed, and the choice of gap, magnetic material, impedance, bias, head shielding and gap presentation to the medium are considered."
"All Published research, however sober and objective, reveals in some degree the bias of its author. Even a bibliography partakes of this human limitation. In the first place, the books must be selected, and the omitting of specific ones can seldom be explained by cold logic. In the second place, any arrangement by subheadings puts certain titles in a group relationship that may not quite fit various readers' ideas. Finally, the annotation, especially if it has to be brief, is likely to be either too biting or too bland."
"The resolution properties of the image orthicon have been studied experimentally for nonstandard scanning rates applicable in scientific observation. Resolution may be improved by (1) raising the photocathode voltage, (2) separating the exposure and scanning operations in time so as to minimize the effect of leakage of scan fields into image section, (3) cooling the target and (4) scanning slowly without reduction of bandwidth. When operated as suggested with highlights near the “knee,” the 3-in. image orthicon has an amplitude response of 50% at 900 TV-lines and a limiting resolution of about 1500 TV-lines. With increased illumination a limiting resolution of 3000 TV-lines (60 line-pairs/mm) is attained. Maximum resolution is set by capacitive coupling between elements at the target. Response to stellar or point source images is discussed. Measurement techniques and the sine-wave response of test lenses are given."
"The video-tape recorder developed for the Tiros Satellite (described by Zenel in the November, 1960, Journal) fulfilled its system requirements completely, and acquired an impressive record of performance. Since then, however, more advanced satellite programs have imposed demands for increased information storage, improved quality of reproduction, lower power drain, less weight for a given storage capacity, and increased reliability under the rigorous conditions of rocket launching and space environment. Specific programs have required additional special characteristics, such as angular momentum compensation and dual-speed operation. A series of different recorder designs has been developed for Nimbus and OGO satellite programs, as well as a number of classified programs. The space-saving features of the Tiros recorder have been retained and new developments incorporated in the new recorder designs to meet more stringent requirements."
"The resolution performance of a television camera is determined by the cascaded response of a number of stages, each of which is the optical equivalent of a low-pass filter. One component which is common and important in all cameras is the aperture presented by the scanning electron-beam. By mechanically smoothing the oxide coating of the cathode, the intrinsic resolution capability of the beam in an image-orthicon electron gun has been nearly doubled. Descriptions of the processing technique and some experimental results are included."
"The job of an infrared tracking mount in reentry operations is to keep an array of optical instruments pointed accurately at a missile as it speeds across the sky. This job can be performed during day or night, for either launch or reentry operation, when the acquisition scheme has been planned accordingly. A tracking system which utilizes the combined capabilities of a human operator for acquisition and an infrared sensor for automatic tracking is described. Television viewing of the target area is shown to be of assistance to the operator."
"A semiautomatic analytical recording densitometer has been developed that illuminates the sample by means of a unique optical system. The light from the sample is then separated into its blue, green and red components. Each component is evaluated with a modified Macbeth Quantalog Photometer whose outputs, read by counters, represent integral densities. These outputs are fed into a coordinate converter that computes the equivalent neutral densities and these densities are recorded by a three-character printing unit on an X-Y flatbed recorder. The complete characteristic curves are plotted with the aid of a motor that moves the sensitometric strip to the next step after each has been measured. The outfit consists largely of commercially available components. It can be greatly simplified when only integral densities are required."
"Improperly processed and/or stored color film will undergo some dye fading and, in the case of color negative film, may also show changes in the residual colored couplers. These changes in the film may produce serious problems in the printing laboratory as well as a degradation of the color quality of the release print. The effects of certain processing conditions on dye stability have been studied and processing variables that contribute to dye fading are emphasized."
"Recent events have called attention to the need for definitions in the area of photographic science and engineering."
"A proposed Recommended Practice, a proposed revision and a proposed American Standard are published here for a trial period and public review. Comments should be addressed to Alex E. Alden, Staff Engineer, at Society Headquarters prior to November 30. If no adverse criticism is received by that date, the proposed recommended practice will be submitted to the Board of Governors, and the proposed standards will be submitted to ASA Sectional Committee PH22 for approval."
"A rotating mirror framing camera which operates in the million frame per second range is described. The camera is based on the principle of the focal-plane shutter, making use of six shutter slits to record 216 frames in six rows of images. Each image measures 24 by 18 mm. The geometric aperture of the camera is about f/20. Provision is made for varying the exposure time to frame time ratio by selection of the shutter slit widths. The method of phasing the shutters to obtain higher framing rates with improved precision of position-time data in the records for a given rotating mirror size and speed is described."
"The camera described in the paper immediately preceding in this Journal is particularly suited for the study of detonation phenomena because of its continuous coverage in time, for 216 frames, of at least some portions of the subject. The coverage feature minimizes the chance of failure to observe details of rapidly changing phenomena. The camera was intentionally designed to record the six rows of images on two film strips with the images of the three rows on each film phased one-third frame apart. In addition, the shutter apertures for each filmed group of images can be selected independently for flexibility in control of exposure. This camera has been used at framing rates up to 1.1 million frames per second to record transient phenomena in the study of the growth to detonation in explosives subjected to mechanical shocks of known amplitude. Example records of these experiments are shown and discussed."
"A design philosophy for a pulse distribution amplifier is developed. It is concluded that the time between leading corners of the two transitions of a pulse should be preserved, and that pulse delay — measured at a level arbitrarily close to the base of the pulse - should be independent of input rise time. A technique for reforming pulses in the desired manner is presented. A solid-state, two-output pulse distribution amplifier incorporating this technique is described."
"A survey of a cross section of educators and engineers indicates that because of the “piecemeal” evolution of today's audio-visual devices schools have not been able to make the effective use of audio-visual techniques that the state of the art permits. Faced with an ever-increasing number of students and the mushrooming expansion of knowledge, the schools must look to a systems approach to education — the integration of instructional materials."
"The studio-equipped electrical interlock projection system has certain disadvantages. It is expensive, cumbersome and stationary. A portable, lightweight interlock projection system, which employs mechanically locked-in sync of 16mm motion-picture film with the 16mm magnetic soundtrack, has been developed. The films are synchronized on a common sprocket-driven roller of a conventional optical, or optical/magnetic, projector. A series of rollers leads the magnetic film from its supply reel to the sprocket and then to its take-up reel. Constructed of simple, inexpensive components, it offers many advantages to the smaller commercial producer and the in-plant film department."
"A new type of leader is proposed for use in nontheatrical showings. It is compared to the Academy Leader and to the SMPTE Standard Leader, both of which are designed for professional use in 35mm and television. It is demonstrably advantageous to provide a suitable focus leader with sufficient black leader to permit shutdown after focus and then energizing the projector for the actual showing without encountering wow or flutter as the sound system stabilizes. Compatibility with standard SMPTE leaders is generally maintained."
"The firm of Marken Film GmbH, of Hamburg, Germany, long-established producers of motion pictures and TV commercials, has recently constructed a studio complex on 15,000 sq m of land owned by the firm. Construction was begun in November, 1961. The new studios are in a rural area outside of Hamburg near a wooded area. Features include lighting control by pushbutton console with a special grid in the ceiling."
"Various Methods have been used for recording signals on magnetic tape for the case of frequencies which are considerably higher than sound frequencies (for instance, video-frequency signals). The most important of these are the longitudinal method, with a stationary magnetic head; the longitudinal-stroke method with a large number of heads and a complex electronic commutation system; and the transverse-stroke method with rotating magnetic heads."
"A device called Disc-O-Sound Delay System, for which a patent is pending, has been developed as a solution to the problem of developing sound and picture together in single-system production. The purpose of the new time-delay system is to eliminate the gap between the motion-picture frame and its corresponding sound. By means of this system, picture and sound are recorded adjacently directly into a conventional single-system camera (or even a silent camera). The sound film may then be completely edited after filming and normal processing. This system is also used for projection."
"The subjective definition of a television image may be improved by overemphasizing and/or increasing the steepness of its luminance transitions. A new crispener circuit capable of performing either or both these functions using linear circuitry is described and illustrated with low-resolution television images. It is shown that the effect of overemphasizing or steepening the rise-times of the luminance transitions appear to be comparable in improving the subjective quality of the resulting picture whereas a combination of the two is superior to either. Applications of the crispener circuit in outlining television images and reducing overshoot and ring due to sharp cutoff filter characteristics are also described and illustrated. It is shown that when the ring and overshoot in an image are reduced, the sharpness of the image is likewise reduced."
"It is desirable that the next generation of broadcast-quality television cameras use semiconductors exclusively. The latest user specifications for television cameras demand a high standard of performance and facilities which presents a particularly difficult problem with regard to the video processing chain. A general design approach is outlined and particular design solutions are given."
"The E.B.U. Ad-hoc Group on Colour Television was formed towards the end of 1962, with terms of reference requiring it to undertake an objective comparison of the several systems of color television and to make proposals for the discussions of a unique standard for color television in Europe. — After a preliminary examination, the Ad-hoc Group took three systems into consideration, namely the NTSC, SECAM and PAL systems. The functional principles that these three systems have in common, and also the different manners in which the color signals are processed at the transmitting and receiving ends, are described in this article. All three systems give satisfactory results under correct conditions, differences mostly became apparent only with critical pictures and abnormal transmission conditions, therefore very detailed comparison trials are at present being undertaken. As the task of the Ad-hoc Group has not yet been finished, it is still too early to publish any conclusions."
"The electrical system installed in the new MPO Videotronics film center provides either a-c or d-c power through remotely controlled contactors for multistage operation. The use of bus duct, circuit breakers, voltage regulators, remote indicating panels, plug-in boxes, silence-system, public address system, supervisory control, fire alarm system and other modern electrical equipment and methods of installation combine to form the nerve center of this project."
"The positions of objects relative to the point of an explosion are often determined by means of photographic triangulation. A computer program has been developed to locate the positions of these objects in terms of their coordinates in a rectangular grid system. The experimental program for which the computer program was developed is described and the principles of photo triangulation, the computer program and the results obtained are discussed."
"Space astronomy is defined. In particular, the requirements for visual exploration of the Moon and Mars are outlined. The slow-scan vidicon is shown to be particularly useful as an astrophotographic instrument for space astronomy. The special instrumentation requirements for a slow-scan vidicon system are described for a Mars mission. Some of the techniques are illustrated with photos taken with a slow-scan vidicon system using as an optical objective the Mt. Wilson 60-in. telescope."
"Image dissection is defined and present and potential applications are briefly cited. The literature on image dissection methods is quite extensive as illustrated by the Bibliography."
"This is the first of what the Society hopes will be a substantial number of reports by Papers Committee Regional Chairmen, who are encouraged to correspond about possible historical or state of the art papers with International Vice-Chairman Rodger J. Ross, c/o Canadian Broadcasting Corp., 354 Jarvis St. Toronto, Ont., Canada."
"The exclusive use of transistors considerably reduces the total power required by a broadcast quality image-orthicon TV camera. However, the high electrode potentials and considerable scanning and focusing powers required by a 4 1/2-in. image-orthicon tube present difficult problems in efficiently supplying power to the camera when used at some distance from its control unit. The nature of the problem is described and some solutions given."
"One plane mirror and two faceted mirrors were fitted to Telstar. A photoelectric telescope was mounted on a radar antenna pedestal. Appropriate recording gear was built. The 12-in. aperture Cassegrain photoelectric telescope could be pointed at the satellite directly from prediction tapes, and the pointing accuracy could on occasion be improved by homing on the microwave beacon on the satellite or by applying corrections from visual observation through other telescopes with apertures of up to 6 in. It has been possible to detect the flashes of sunlight reflected from the mirrors on Telstar at slant ranges up to 3,700 miles. Directly from pairs of these observations, or by combining this information with telemetry data from the solar sensors on the satellite, it has been possible to determine the orientation of the spin axis of Telstar and to examine how this is moving in time. This normal precession of the spin axis is due mainly to the interaction of the residual magnetic moment of the satellite with the magnetic field of the earth. It was also possible to study how the spin axis moved when the torque coil was operated. — Measurements have been made of the spin rate of the satellite and of its rate of decay. The spin rate will drop to 1/10 of its initial value in about 750 days. — Photographs of the glints have been taken, and a study is now being made of the feasibility of combining precise photoelectric observation of the time of the flashes with high-precision photographic observation of the instantaneous position of the satellite relative to the fixed star background."
"In the processing of black-and-white reversal films, the bleach, although having a relatively simple function, can cause numerous practical problems including silver retention, black-and-white spots, and highlight stain. Actual processing machine failure can result because of undesirable but preventable sludge accumulation. It is shown that correct bleach usage and chemical formulation in conjunction with an adequate post-bleaching treatment will eliminate these problems. New bleach replenishment conditions are recommended. In addition, information relating to high-temperature processing and the use of specially formulated bleaches is presented."
"This report covers the current status of the SMPTE Video-Tape Recording Committee's work and updates the report by C. E. Anderson published in June, 1960. The matter of pre- and post-emphasis is being studied extensively. Proposed Standards before the ASA concern tape speed and dimensions, tape leader specifications, and characteristics of audio records. Recommended Practices have been adopted on modulation levels, vacuum guide radius and position, and signal specifications. Practices regarding patch splices and control track record are before the Standards Committee. A standard specifying reel dimensions is waiting final approval and one on dimensions for video, audio and control records is under review. Developments in 7 1/2-in./sec recording, slant track or helical recorders, and color signals are under study. The CCIR is considering the Society's recommendations with respect to international standardization."
"The full benefits of modern technology can be realized more effectively in education if the skills of the systems engineer are permitted to guide the design of specific new devices. Some of the basic communications problems in education are identified, and guidelines for the development of improved technological aids are suggested. The possible influence of technology on teaching and learning opportunities is examined from an engineering point of view."
"An Educational Television Program Production Center is now being constructed for the Board of Education of New York City. The planning of space relationships and the specifying of equipment to meet projected program requirements are discussed. The integrated audio-video system is making stored information available on a random access basis to administrators, teachers, and students."
"Studies and research projects designed to gather data on the design and operation of instructional facilities and systems appropriate for science and engineering education are being conducted. The design features, construction details, and technical systems now operational in special classrooms on the Rensselaer campus are described. Special attention is given to features of a new experimental classroom facility, including lighting, seating, space configuration, display surfaces, projection systems, controls, and television."
"A survey conducted among psychologists and audio-visual education specialists for the American Optical Co. revealed a primary dissatisfaction with the films available. The survey also revealed other information about desirable motion-picture system designs and costs. Reasons for the formats now in use are very briefly outlined and prospects for new formats, including 4mm, are ventured."
"Edit. Note: Subsequent to publication of a Letter to the Editor from Jean Vivié. about 8mm and small-format films in the May, 1963, Journal, p. 412, the following has been prepared for the Journal. The author's 1951 proposals have not been generally available. Pierre Mertz, Chairman of the Society's Board of Editors, has contributed this translation from the French."
"Recent improvements in 8mm films and projectors have been hailed as opening the way for extensive use of this size of film for educational purposes. Many claims, such as economy and reduced size and weight, appear very attractive to school authorities. However, other important features such as adequate picture quality, convenience of operation, and suitability for classroom, as opposed to home or industrial, use seem to have received too little attention. The author suggests that before adopting an entirely new line of equipment and films, more consideration should be given to the possibility of obtaining equipment in the not too distant future which more nearly meets educational needs."
"With the introduction of a magazine-loaded projector using 8mm film in loop form the development of a self-contained daylight projection unit for use by teachers under classroom conditions to provide motion-picture illustrations in the course of their own lessons became a practical possibility. The development and demonstration of this idea in Great Britain and the production of the first films are described. This visual aid is now in production and more than 200 single-concept films are now available for teachers' use."
"Described is a self-contained language teaching machine utilizing visual projections and 8mm sound. The machine permits the student operator to progress at his own speed by means of forward and reverse visual scanning, still projection, record and playback modes and a means for self quizzing."
"Cold mirror coatings have been incorporated into reflector lamps (or use in the home 8mm motion-picture projector. Light output shows little or no loss, whereas the total energy absorbed by the film has been reduced by 50% for some films. Methods for testing these lamps are shown. Problems of coating uniformity, visible light reflectance, infrared transmission, and color bias are discussed."
"The application of 1/4-in. magnetic tape with low-frequency control-track signal for synchronous motion-picture recording is described. Equipment modifications made to accommodate the new Neo-Pilot heads, which record a push-pull sync track, are detailed and performance data given."
"The dye-transfer process as used in making Technicolor release prints provides great flexibility in determining the color balance of prints. By double-printing a set of matrices, first from a standard color negative, and then from a black-and-white negative, characteristics ranging from a completely normal full-color reproduction to a completely monochrome representation can be obtained. The expense of duplicate negatives is eliminated and characteristics can be modified during grading."
"A system has been devised and applied to one processing machine demonstrating the principle of adapting conventional processing machines for viscous-layer development. Equipment modifications were confined to the developer system and to controlling the temperature of the developer chamber. The viscous developer was supplied by an accurate metering pump through a specially designed heat exchanger to an extrusion-type applicator, which coated a uniform layer on the emulsion. A temperature-controlled, water-saturated atmosphere was maintained in the developer chamber by recirculating water sprays to prevent heat loss from the viscous developer by evaporation. The developer was removed by a water spray between the developer chamber and the fixer section. Comparison projections show very close agreement between the results of normal and viscous-layer development. The viscous-layer development produces a somewhat crisper picture because of effects in the toe."
"A new set of filters designated “Status M” for use in electronic color densitometers permits readings that give a good approximation of true printing densities when printing onto Eastman Color Print Film or onto Kodak color print materials that are used with Kodacolor and Ektacolor Films. The design and advantages of the new filters are described, and the accuracy of the filters is illustrated by comparison of Status M readings with true printing densities. The meaning and the use of printing density are reviewed. The importance of printing density standardization both within and among laboratories is emphasized."
"Problems relating to cropping losses are briefly discussed. A description is given of a unique method of simultaneously marking an identical safe-title area on all preview monitors in a television system. Using an electronic generator, marking signals are fed to preview monitors along with video signal. Advantages of the system are outlined."
"This report is based on a presentation made by Vernon J. Duke, National Broadcasting Go., RCA Bldg., Radio City, New York 20, on October 26, 1962, at the Society's Convention in Chicago. The Convention presentation included projection of many examples of recordings."
"A fast-opening, large-aperture, high-transmittance shutter has been developed. This shutter consists essentially of a metallic foil in a capacitor discharge circuit. The opening action is obtained when the foil is buckled and compressed laterally by the electromagnetic forces which accompany the heavy surge current through the circuit, during a transient discharge. A shutter made up of two foils in a loop arrangement may be opened to an area 1 in. × 3 in. in less than 45 microseconds. Some of the factors affecting the design and operation of the shutter are briefly discussed. These factors include the electrical energy input to the foil, the circuit parameters, and the materials and the size of the foil. Some experimental results are also given."
"Results of high-speed photographic studies of mode patterns and output polarization of ruby lasers using the STL image-converter camera are discussed. High optical quality ruby rods produce complex mode patterns in every spike and they may change within a spike. These patterns are always located in the center of the rod. A similar study using the STL camera of a ruby rod with the c axis at 1.8° to the rod axis shows that it does emit with a preferential polarization."
"The biennial meetings of the International Congresses on High-Speed Photography are becoming increasingly important to science and industry. As specialists in high-speed photography continuously devise better equipment and techniques, scientists and engineers, not necessarily experts in the field, should be better able to utilize these procedures for solutions to their own specific problems. Without question, the dissemination of the material of these Congresses is valuable to research and development in a number of countries."
"In the Research Fields of shock waves and explosives, as in other fields of research, there are no substitutes for well-considered theory and equally well-designed experiment. A most important element of a well-designed experiment lies in the use of observational techniques that match the requirements of the desired measurements. Obviously then, rapidly changing phenomena need observational systems having rapid, and if possible, repetitive responses. Shock waves and detonations are such rapidly changing phenomena; therefore, we who do research in these fields are intensely interested in all phases of highspeed photography."
"A system has been designed to recover exhausted film-cleaning solvent vapors, and to treat the reclaimed solvents in such a way as to render them completely reusable in the film cleaning machines from which they were generated. Installation and operation of the system are described."
"Shipboard television offers passengers a modern entertainment medium when the weather forces abandonment of deck sports. Full use of television should include closed-circuit programs originating aboard ships as well as facilities for receiving programs beamed from nearby shore transmitters. Obstacles which were of consideration in designing the installation now aboard the S.S. France were: (a) differences in the systems employed in the United States, France and other countries in Europe; (b) the necessity of maintaining compactness because of the cubic value of space aboard ship; and (c) heat problem resulting from power consumption, because of the capacity of the air-conditioning system. The problems of compactness and of power consumption in relation to heat were met by transistorizing the equipment. — In the finest motion-picture theater afloat, provisions are made to transmit 35mm cinema films through the closed-circuit TV system to each cabin equipped with receivers, at the same time as they are shown in the theater. To transmit news, 16mm cameras are arranged to record interviews or arrivals aboard ship for television transmission at a selected time. Radio news weather reports are programed by a live newscaster and televised in much the same manner as the newscasts received at home."
"In the configuration of color television cameras, at least three systems have been used. The first, and most familiar, makes use of three tubes whose spectral response corresponds to the red, green and blue components, respectively, of the scene. A second type substitutes a tube having a spectral response proportional to the luminosity curve, ȳ, for the green tube. Still a third makes use of four tubes which correspond to the three primaries as well as the luminosity curve. Due to the gamma correction, the latter two systems theoretically result in chromaticity and luminance errors in the reproduced picture. An analysis is made of the nature of these errors. Calculation is also made of the chromaticity shading which results from shading of the output of one of the three (or four) tubes. Experimental results are also described."
"In the matching of color television cameras, the intent is to realize equal colorimetric performance between cameras as well as to achieve a pleasing reproduction of the scene to be televised. During a television production, however, a difference in spectral transmission between lenses used on a camera, or a change in spectral distribution of illumination on the subject causes a change in color balance which requires a change in balance to maintain matched cameras. In “Stop and Go” color video-tape recording where segments are recorded at different times and edited at a later date in a sequence other than the order recorded, it is imperative that a camera match be maintained during each recording and the same camera match be realized at each recording date."
"Some schemes for taking fast motion pictures photograph each frame as a pattern of circular dots. The dots are several diameters apart so that similar patterns from many frames fit together without overlapping. To crowd as many frames as possible onto the film each dot must touch six dots from other frames. This puts certain geometrical restrictions on the dot pattern for a single frame."
"Motion-picture and television frequently require productions formed by synchronization of a number of visual images. The view camera and frame-cut methods of coordinating arrested motion are briefly described, and the latter is also applied to set construction. There are drafting methods for translating an art director's sketch into a three-dimensional full or scale-size set construction in forced or natural perspective. The determination of miniature setups, coordinating location photographs with set dimension, and assuring accurate perspective interlock of rear-projection plates to foreground construction is discussed. Geometric methods are also described for determining aspects of the camera station point when not recorded by the cameraman at the time of original exposure."
"Securing and preparing good historical papers for our Journal is not an easy task. Many months and sometimes many years elapse between the initial search for a capable author and the final publication of the article. The Historical and Museum Committee has served for many years as a clearing house in our Society for such work. Since the early twenties, about fifty articles have appeared in the Transactions and Journal. These papers have documented many important events in the early developments of motion-picture engineering and more recently in television engineering and photo-instrumentation. — The following paper by Samuel G. Rose, a member of our Committee for 1963–64, represents another valuable addition to the historical records of motion pictures in this country. It was our original hope about five years ago that it would be an autobiography but this was not realized because Mr. Victor passed away in March, 1961. The task was then assumed by his old friend and associate of many years, S. G. Rose, who has prepared an interesting and authoritative biography of Alexander F. Victor.—Glenn E. Matthews, Chairman of the Historical and Museum Committee for 1963–64."
"My First Report appeared in the February Journal. Now I would like to tell you about your Society after seven months of operation in 1963."
"In Terms of Geography, the SMPTE Canadian Section [now reorganized into Montreal and Toronto Sections] was the largest in the Society. Effective communication between members of a Section is of paramount importance if the aims of the Society are to be attained and if continuing growth is to be realized. But when a Section is over 3,000 miles wide, how is it possible to serve a majority of the members? The Canadian Section Newsletter, started last year, helped to bridge this communication gap. But what about attendance of members at meetings"
"Commercial Television was introduced to Canadian viewers in September, 1952. Less than six years later, in June, 1958, seven Ampex video-tape recorders were installed at the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's delay center, and kinescopes were replaced by live tape recordings - solving the time-zone scheduling problems that had plagued advertising agencies for years. As video-tape recorders became more readily available, CBC and independent stations began installation as a means of recording programs for future transmission. In Canada today, 40 television stations are equipped with either Ampex or RCA video-tape recorders. Over 100 machines are now in use."
"Equipment Used in television news operations ranges in size from the 8mm cameras used by CHAN-TV on the West Coast, through the silent l6mm cameras, the sound cameras, and up to the big color television cameras from which we can get a black-and-white newsfilm insert. Processors, printers, editing machines and splicers also vary."
"This fourth Interim Report brings up to date (as of January 1, 1963) the selected statistics contained in the comprehensive study of the nontheatrical film and audio-visual field published in the June, 1959, issue of the Journal (pp. 387–392). It supersedes in part Interim Report No. 3 published in the February, 1962, issue of the Journal (pp. 139–142)."
"The Progress Committee report is primarily concerned with technical developments in the motion-picture and television industries. Nevertheless, some of the business trends are of sufficient General interest to mention."
"Each year there are twice as many new films being produced in the United States as there are books being published. To collect, restore, house, preserve and catalog significant samples of this torrential output poses vast economic and engineering problems. A national, industry-wide program of motion-picture archives is desperately needed."
"This standard applies to all low-voltage power circuit breakers of the 600-volt insulation class capable of interrupting short-circuit currents in excess of 10,000 amp (amperes) for use with ac circuits. Other low-voltage power circuit breakers for use on circuits rated up to 1,000 volts ac and 3,000 volts dc are not covered by this standard; molded-case circuit breakers are specifically not covered."
"This Test Procedure covers instructions for conducting and reporting the more generally applicable and acceptable tests to determine the performance characteristics of direct-current tachometer generators. Direct-current tachometer generators are used for a variety of indicating and control purposes and a characteristic of primary importance in one application may be of little or no importance in another. This Procedure shall not be interpreted or construed as requiring the making of all or any of the tests herein in any given transaction. It is recognized that there may be methods other than those described herein. When more than one method is available, local conditions and the degree of precision desired will determine the method to be used. It is also recognized that tests under or after exposure to unusual environmental conditions are important in some applications but the diversity of these requirements is such that it is not practical to include them at this time."
"This Test Procedure covers instructions for conducting and reporting the more generally applicable and acceptable tests to determine the performance characteristics of polyphase induction motors having liquid in the magnetic gap. Constants in several equations and forms apply to three-phase motors only and require modification for application to motors having another number of phases. It is not intended that the Procedure cover all possible tests or tests of a research nature. The Procedure shall not be interpreted as requiring the making of any or all of the tests described herein in any given transaction."
"While the term parametric amplifier implies a device which operates by virtue of the variation of some parameter, resistive or reactive, current usage applies it to circuits in which only a reactance is varied. When applied to electron beam devices and devices employing distributed nonlinear media, the variable parameter is equivalent to a reactance in the sense that it is associated with energy storage rather than eiiergy dissipative properties of the beam or medium. The qualifier, reactance, is more frequently applied to circuits in which the variable element is an easily identified lumped reactance. The qualifier, parametric, is more frequently applied to electron beam and distributed parameter devices, but can include the variable reactance devices as well. Thus in any of the following definitions, reactance may be used in place of parametric. These definitions are intended to exclude devices which operate by virtue of variable resistance or negative resistance."
"This Standard recommends and describes methods of measurement of the important electrical characteristics of semiconductor diodes, For the purpose of this Standard, a semiconductor diode is defined as: \"A semiconductor device having two terminals and exhibiting a nonlinear voltage-current characteristic ; in more restricted usage, a semiconductor device which has the asymmetrical voltage-current characteristic exemplified by a single p-n junction.\" Methods of test are described for static, small-signal and pulse parameters. Many of the terms considered herein have been set down in AIEE and IRE Standards, particularly in 60 IRE 28.S1 and AIEE No. 425."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"There are no essential changes in format or composition in the Digest this year. However, the growing body of literature on dielectrics, while attesting to the virility of the field, poses an ever increasing problem in keeping the Digest both comprehensive and within bounds. This year the Digest Committee has considered this problem and has recommended to the Executive Committee of the Conference major changes in format for next year."
"Presents the table of contents from this conference."
"Research in the field of dielectric materials continues on a broad front. No new materials with spectacular properties have been reported during 1963, but both scientific and technical knowledge of a wide range of materials have been advanced."
"A Guide to Instrument Design, Scientific Instrument Mfrs. Assn. of G. Brit.1, with 444 pages and 280 figures, covered good design of mechanical, optical, and electrical instruments."
"This year's compilation continues essentially unchanged from last year's. Chemical Abstracts for 1963 was employed as the sole source of references to provide continuous but not overlapping coverage from the last tables. Only papers dealing with dielectric measurements on pure materials were covered and ones dealing exclusively with mixtures, radiation damaged materials or resistivity measurements were excluded."
"The principal source for the references cited was Physics Abstracts; the literature was covered in citations from the March 1963 through February 1964 issues of Physics Abstracts."
"One of the prerogatives of the authors of any review is the choice of emphasis on those subjects in which the authors are particularly interested. The material covered here reflects, to some extent, just such a preference. The sheer quantity of literature published during the year 1963 which could be included under this general title precludes any completely general coverage in a reasonable-sized review. Hence, a selection was based upon a supposition of the interests of the readers of this volume. On this basis, the strongest interest was centered on materials generally considered as dielectrics and on theory most applicable to dielectric materials. The metals, as well as other materials exhibiting metallic-like behavior, were in general not included. Likewise, no coverage was extended to the so-called wide-band semiconductors such as silicon and germanium on the assumption that adequate coverage of this subject is a separate work to be found in other sources. The intermetallic semiconductors were excluded on the same principle."
"During the year a valuable book was published, written by Swift and Acton1, dealing with the theory and design of cold cathode discharge tubes. The book is largely based on post-graduate lectures given at The Northern Polytechnic, London; it contains much hitherto unpublished data and draws on extensive experience gained in an industrial laboratory."
"On the basis of work published in 1963, two trends appear to be taking place: a lessening of interest, particularly in the Russian literature, in barium titanate and other perovskites; and a great increase in interest, particularly in this country, in electro-optic properties. The latter is caused by two recent developments, the use of electro-optic crystals for modulating Laser beams, and the discovery (1961) of frequency doubling of coherent light in piezoelectric crystals. Frequency doubling has now been reported in NH4H2PO4 (ADP), NaClO3, NaBrO3, quartz, tourmaline, CdS, CdSe, InSb, GaAs, and elemental Te, as well as a variety of ferroelectric crystals. In view of the concentrated interest, papers concerning optical harmonics and electro-optic modulation (but not basic measurements) have been collected in a single section."
"A subject of this size must necessarily undergo rather severe selection to reach proportions suitable for this digest. Compared with last year's chapter, a broader coverage of sources is attempted, with a somewhat narrower coverage of subject matter. Articles included either discuss electrical properties and effects or deal with uses of polymers in electrical manufacturing. Effects of ionizing radiation on polymers and in polymerization are also covered. Subdivision of subject matter is based primarily upon uses, properties, and methods rather than polymer structure."
"The main criterion for selection of literature to be included in this Chapter was that the articles should be concerned with organic insulation in film or fiber form and that some electrical properties should be considered. Articles dealing solely with methods of synthesis of the materials were omitted unless the material had potential interest, in the opinion of the reviewers, for use as insulating films. The subject matter of this Chapter thus lies between that of the chapters on High Polymeric Materials and Applications and may overlap somewhat with these."
"The fundamental aspects related to the electric strength of n-hexane were studied further by Ward and Lewis1. Specifically, they related such experimental parameters as air-content, prior static stress application, condition of electrodes, and relative electrode polarity to the electric strength of hexane. Measurements were performed by means of one microsecond pulse voltages, which afforded a mean pulse strength of approximately 1.5 Mv/cm. However, this was increased to 2.5 Mv/cm by use of oxidized steel electrodes and air-saturated hexane upon application of a prior static stress of 0.8 Mv/cm of opposite polarity to the pulses. A similar enhancement of electric strength was obtained when the polarities were alike but with the liquid freed of dissolved oxygen. Here, the strength is raised or lowered according to whether the static stress is of opposite or like polarity. The authors' explanation is that the static stress sets up charge layers on the electrodes. In particular negative ion layers are formed when oxygen is present in solution. The layers modify the emission from the pulse cathode and hence, change the pulse strength."
"The past year's literature on insulation indicates increased activity in the fields of glass and thin-film dielectrics accompanied by slightly less work on mica and vitrified silicates. Several specific areas deserve mention. A greater effort was made to distinguish between cationic, anionic, and electronic mechanisms of charge transport in glass and crystalline oxides, particularly the defect cubic structures. More thin films were made by decomposition processes than before, and increased attention was given to negative resistance phenomena and the fundamental limitations in achieving good dielectric properties in insulating films. A host of glasses was examined in the USSR for glass electrode properties."
"This chapter is a digest of the literature on the application of electrical insulating materials and dielectrics to electrical machinery and devices."
"This standard recommends testing procedure for tensile strength, elongation, and hardness tests on samples of lead sheaths removed from cables."
"This test procedure is intended as a guide for impulse testing of insulated conductors. It is intended only for use as a design or development test, and not as a routine production or specification test. Special needs may require deviations from this test procedure. A uniform procedure, however, is desirable in most cases. This test procedure applies only to impulse tests on insulated conductors. This test procedure is not intended to replace any existing or future standards covering impulse generators, impulse testing or voltage measurements. It is intended to supplement such standards by indicating specific procedures for a specific type of system component."
"Low-Voltage AC Power Circuit Breakers. Low-voltage ac power circuit breakers (not molded-case breakers) with interrupting ratings of over 10,000 amp (amperes), 1,000 volts ac or less, covered by American Standards C37.13-1963, C37.151954 (Reaffirmed 1961) , C37.16-1963, and C37.171962. Individually Enclosed Low-Voltage AC Power Circuit Breakers. Low-voltage ac power circuit breakers, when in individual enclosures, usually built of steel for separate mounting. Low-Voltage AC Power Switchgear Assemblies. Low-voltage ac power switchgear assemblies, indoor and outdoor, including low-voltage ac power circuit breakers 1,000 volts ac or less, either drawout or stationary, covered by American Standard C37.20-1955."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: electronics division; materials science; engineering division; rotating machinery division; transformers and distribution division."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"H Film is the designation for a new high-temperature polyimide film under development by the Film Department of the Du Pont Company. It is a product of the same research effort which produced the Fabrics and Finishes Department's \"Pyre-M.L.\"1 enamel and \"Pyre-M.L.\" varnish, both of which are being used by the electrical industry for high temperature insulation. A chemically different polyamide product is also being developed by the Textile Fibers Department in the form of HT-1 paper and yarn for high temperature use. Both \"Pyre-M.L.\" and HT-1 were described at the Fourth Electrical Insulation Conference in February, 1962. The purpose of this paper is to describe the properties of the latest member of this high temperature polymer family, H Film."
"Materials produced by crystallization of glass present a unique combination of properties such as homogeneity, pore-free structure and small particle size, which is controllable by heat treatment within the 0.1 to 1 micron range. Furthermore, shaping and sealing operations are possible in the glass state."
"Low loss metallized polycarbonate lacquer film capacitors can offer new dimensions in the field of high quality miniaturized components. The size of these capacitors is comparable with that of metallized cellulose acetate lacquer film capacitors (1,2) now in pilot plant production at Western Electric Company (6,7,8). However, their properties are greatly superior approaching the low loss characteristics of present polystyrene or of mica capacitors but with a hundred-fold reduction in size. They show a temperature coefficient of capacitance of about SO parts per million per °C, comparable with that of either mica or polystyrene (3,4,5). The polycarbonate lacquer film capacitors also have good capacitance stability, high insulation resistance, and long life under adverse conditions. They may be used without voltage derating over a much wider temperature range than polystyrene, the range extending at least from - 78°C to + 125°C."
"With the above considerations in mind, our efforts to understand and characterize insulation systems should provide a better understanding of end of life capabilities. This development should allow a more proficient use of the older materials to meet the new requirements for specified reliability. Insulation system requirements for space and underwater ambients will, by necessity, have to await the results of additional exploratory work. As for trends in equipment for use in atmospheric ambients, needs have been demonstrated for such materials as: (a) An epoxy dip coating with electrical and mechanical characteristics equivalent to the epoxy moulding compounds. (b) A liquid dielectric with equivalent electrical and physical characteristics of transformer oil through the extended temperature range of 200-250°C. (c) A layer insulation with the electrical, physical, and mechanical characteristics of Kraft paper through the extended temperature range of 200-250°C."
"With the revision of AIEE Standard No. 1 a few years ago when the insulation systems concept was formalized, many AIEE committees developed test codes for the evaluation of systems of insulation for the types of apparatus within their scope. The new standard has recognized that the suitability of an insulation system, aside from significant thermal consideration, is influenced by the manufacturing techniques and processes of construction as well as the exposure of the apparatus in service to electrical and mechanical stress, vibration, moisture, chemicals, etc. Basically, what was needed was an accelerated life test, and it is the intent herein to develop an accelerated life test procedure which embodies the various factors known to affect insulation life. By subjecting a known or proven insulation system to this test procedure, data will be collected which can be projected to an equivalent life, thus enabling a designer to compare a new insulation system with the established one."
"Liquid dielectrics have been successfully used for many years for the major insulation system impregnate for transformer applications above 10-25 KV operating levels. Extensive use of liquid insulants is based primarily on their ability to satisfy the prime design requirements of low cost, long service life with a minimum of maintenance, good dielectric, thermal properties and compatibility with other materials. Not all insulating fluids meet these individual requirements to the same degree, therefore, the selection of a particular liquid solid system should represent the best compromise in these desired properties."
"In this paper, we present a summary of the present state of the art pertaining to fluorochemical gases and vapor, and we describe some of the properties of these materials which are of particular interest in relation to the design of transformers and the packaging of these and other components as parts of electronic systems. The concluding portion of the paper is devoted to practical examples of equipments utilizing fluorochemical gases and vapors as dielectric-cooling agents."
"High operating voltage, high temperature, high humidity, reduced weight, and reduced volume have combined to demand the most effective use from the various insulations. The application of epoxy resins for the simultaneous impregnation and casting of the coil assembly prior to the insertion of the magnetic core and associated hardware achieve many of the desirable solutions to the various insulating problems."
"Electronic transformers are provided with some means of protection against the usual enemies of insulation, such as moisture, mechanical stress and corona. With improvements in this protection, functional evaluation of adequately protected components becomes largely thermal evaluation. Specific tests and test conditions which apply to electronic transformers are discussed and the influence of various environmental conditions is outlined. Areas in this connection which require further work are suggested."
"Although microwave electronic devices are primarily metallic and inorganic in composition, they make use of synthetic resins for insulation, adhesion, encapsulation, and numerous miscellaneous applications. Silicones, fluorocarbons, epoxies, elastomers, polyesters, foams, and laminates are widely used. The selection of the proper material is based on the chemical, mechanical, and electrical properties of the material. Resiliency, mechanical strength, coefficient of expansion, electrical performance, thermal stability, chemical properties, and ease of application are important factors."
"For many years the electronic industry has recognized the merits of epoxy resin for environmental protection of equipment and components. The major usage has been confined to equipment of relatively low voltage, but recently there has been increasing interest in applying epoxy resins to higher voltage units where liquids such as mineral oil would normally be used. Applications such as airborne equipment are ideal for this type of material since size, weight, and the elimination of oil problems such as expansion and small leaks are important."
"Results of field experience with coils, combined with research conducted on materials systems compatability in coils(1), indicated that a deviation in the system might produce significant changes in the end performance of the coil."
"RTV and heat cured silicone elastomers have for some time been leaders in the materials field for thermal insulation, ablation, and electrical applications for the aerospace industry. The General Electric RTV silicone elastomers had their beginning in the company's silicone research center at Waterford, New York, more than a decade after silicones made their entry into the market as electrical insulating materials. In chemistry the RTV silicone rubbers are quite similar to the heat cured stocks. This paper deals with the effects on RTV rubbers of temperature and vacuum; electrical properties are not considered."
"The electronics manufacturer who wishes to achieve or maintain leadership in his field cannot afford to overlook methods of automating the dispensing and application of pressure-sensitive electrical tapes used in his production.The purpose of this paper is to discuss the evolution of tape automation from simple hand operations to completely automatic tape applying machines. Examples of manual, semi-automatic, and fully automatic machines are described and illustrated. The importance of uniform physical properties of pressure-sensitive adhesive electrical tapes with respect to automatic application is emphasized. In addition, specific tape handling techniques will be discussed."
"In the past, molded encapsulation of components and wire junctions could be accomplished only through the use of expensive equipment specifically designed for each size and configuration. The process of selective cross-linking makes it possible to produce a dual-wall, polyolefin tubing in which the outer wall, when heated, becomes elastic and shrinks toward its original diameter, while the inner wall becomes viscous, melting and flowing to fill voids and interstices. By this technique it is possible to effect shrinkage ratios up to ten to one. Upon cooling, the entire mass becomes a hard, tough homogeneous molding. The purpose of this paper is twofold: (1) to describe the nature of this material, and (2) to discuss its application for encapsulating capacitors, resistors, miniature circuit boards and wire junctions such as splices, shield terminations and breakouts."
"The major growth area within the printed circuit market is expected to be as a result of the development of flexible and multi-layer circuits. The continuing pressures on designers of electrical and electronic equipment for smaller and lighter packaging has greatly increased the demand for thin, multi-layer and flexible, wiring packages. In the automotive field, dashboard wiring is rapidly being replaced with flexible circuitry. Computer, appliance and meter manufacturers are among the many circuit users finding benefits in flexible multi-layer circuitry. Mechanical pattern generation methods lend themselves to the production of flexible circuits, where the insulating film to which the pattern is bonded is tough, flexible, and possesses good electrical properties."
"Epoxy resins have come into widespread use in the field of electrical insulation. Their unique combination of physical, mechanical, dielectric and handling properties will qualify them as the material of choice in such uses as potting, embedding and encapsulation. They are increasingly specified for high quality and high performance printed circuitry."
"Electronic devices embedded in resin are subject to stresses caused by chemical and thermal shrinkage of the resin. At low temperatures, stresses imparted to embedded components may be high enough to affect the performance of the device. A knowledge of the magnitude of these stresses is important in the selection of an embedment resin for a given application."
"In order to determine the adequacy of a dielectric, a testing program must be devised that covers the three areas of possible dielectric deficiencies. These modes of dielectric failure may be reviewed briefly as follows: The intrinsic strength of a solid dielectric is that which relates to its atomic structure. The breakdown mechanism of this mode takes place when the applied electric field is strong enough that a considerable number of the initial free electrons in the conduction band and in the localized donor levels acquire energies greater than the X-ray absorption limit. These electrons are then likely to expel electrons from the valence band. The electrons so freed have similar chance of abstracting sufficient energy from the field for further ionization."
"Under normal circumstances an insulating media contains at least a few free electrons. If these electrons happen to be in an area of high voltage stress (or gradient) they can be accelerated to velocities which are sufficient to dislodge electrons from neutral molecules with which they collide. Positive ions and more free electrons are thereby produced and the latter are available to ionize still more neutral molecules. This chain reaction, or avalanche, gives rise to a large number of free electrons and ions existing in a turbulent condition called corona. An excellent tutorial paper on this subject was presented at the 1962 EI Conference(l). This and other papers(2,3) make clear that the effect of corona in shortening insulation life has been recognized for some time. However, the mechanism by which corona degradates insulation is not completely understood. It has been variously ascribed to ionic bombardment, electron bombardment, ozone attack, and localized heating(4)."
"Since 1945 the Du Pont Company has been carrying out a systematic study of the behavior of electrical insulating materials under high voltage gradients. The effects have been studied both in the presence of and in the absence of corona or ionizing discharges. This paper presents some of the conclusions based on our studies of Teflon ® tetrafluoroethylene resins."
"Extreme value statistics have in the last few years been applied to electrical breakdown of insulation with good results. It is considered timely to present a short review of the statistics and at the same time attempt to illustrate the physical reasons for the statistical behavior. It is a well-known experimental fact that physical imperfections such as voids or foreign particles can govern electric breakdown initiation in insulating materials. This is the case in both solids and liquids of commercial purity and also in gases at higher pressures and in vacuum where imperfections or impurities on the electrodes may govern breakdown initiation. Statistically the problem of electric breakdown under these conditions is similar, for instance, to testing of mechanical strength when physical imperfections govern the mechanical breakdown. The statistics used can best be described as a weak link theory since breakdown by definition occurs in the weakest spot."
"The rapidly increasing activity in the field of cryogenics has established the need for a precise understanding of the physical and electrical behavior of insulating materials at the very low temperatures involved. Unlike the normal and higher temperature properties which are well-known, there is little background information and accumulated knowledge available to the design and application engineers. Consequently, it is necessary to start almost from scratch to study the electrical properties of insulating materials at cryogenic temperatures."
"The meaning and significance of dielectric measurements, specifically dielectric constant and loss, have been presented. The influence of various factors, such as temperature and frequency, on dielectric measurements have been outlined. A synoptic view of the most important measuring techniques and methods from below 60 cps to microwave frequencies has been presented. In this review, the main emphasis has been upon placing each type of instrumentation into the frequency band where its capabilities are most readily utilized. The basic underlying features which determine precision, accuracy and sensitivity are mentioned. A summary of problems underlying electrode and connection errors is given to assist in guarding against excessive measurement inaccuracies. Various areas of this general subject will be covered in detail in following papers."
"Primarily, this paper presents a survey of the more frequently used techniques for determining both the dielectric constant and dielectric loss of solid dielectric materials at test frequencies which fall within the 10 Gc to 80 Gc range. The methods described are most applicable to the measurement of dielectric constant values from 2.00 to 12.00 and loss tangent values from 0.0001 to 0.1000."
"A method and equipment for the measurement of dielectric constant, permeability and losses tan δε and δμ tan in the frequency range from 30 me to 7000 mc was described. Many times in the history of science it has taken many years from the original concept to the development of a generally useful device. The Cathode Ray Tube, invented during the last decade of the last century was a curiosity of the laboratory for more than 30 years before it became a practical instrument. Likewise it is believed that the Material Constants Test Assembly has changed the long-known standing wave indicator from its position as laboratory standard into a powerful industrial and scientific tool."
"It is the purpose of this paper to describe techniques that are being used to determine the dielectric constant and dissipation factor of solid insulators at temperatures up to 500°C. To establish a frame of reference, a summary of the apparatus employed over the temperature-frequency range, and of the circuits employed over the frequency range, is presented in Figure 1. Familiarity of the reader with the circuits shown is assumed, so detailed descriptions of them are not included. The following discussion will cover the construction of cells and secondary electrodes, the measuring techniques, and the rates of heating often used in determining the dielectric properties of insulators in the temperature-frequency field shown. Some problems in making measurements at temperatures above 500°C also are outlined."
"Anyone engaged seriously in the business of performing measurements of dielectric constant and dissipation factor on the large variety of solid electrical insulating materials in use today sooner or later encounters materials which present real problems with respect to the proper choice of electrodes to use. Sommerman(1) has stated that \"it is not an exaggeration to say that electrode problems are encountered in at least half of the dielectric investigations undertaken.\" In many cases troublesome electrode problems can be eliminated by abandoning the use of electrodes of any kind attached directly to the test specimens and resorting instead to a series fluid (air or liquid) gap technique employing a prefabricated electrode system, or cell, consisting of two or more parallel metal plates completely immersed in the fluid medium. Electrical measurements are performed on the cell with and without the flat sheet specimens inserted loosely between the plates. This seemingly unorthodox approach has been in successful and extensive use now for about ten years, and one development from it, viz., the liquid displacement procedure, has provided us with the most accurate, reproducible and rapid method available for the determination of the dielectric constants of materials such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene, etc. It is not intended to imply that the air-gap and liquid displacement techniques are panaceas for all electrode ills. However, their use may extend dielectric measurements to materials that cannot be tested conveniently, if at all, by other methods. These techniques will eliminate the tedious and time-consuming operation of applying electrodes and minimize or eliminate edge-capacitance, stray-capacitance, and lead-capacitance corrections from dielectric constant calculations. In the air-gap method the physical dimensions of the test specimens and electrode system must be accurately known. In the liquid displacement method, particularly when the standard immersion liquid and the material under test have approximately the same dielectric constants, the exact physical dimensions are much less critical ; and when two different liquids having only slightly different dielectric constants are used consecutively in the same test cell the dielectric constant of a given test specimen may be determined without any knowledge of specimen and cell dimensions. However, the dielectric constants of standard liquids used, as well as their temperature dependence, must be precisely known."
"Tests on insulating materials have several purposes: 1. To provide a basis for commercial acceptance or rejection. 2. To provide engineering design data. 3. To develop scientific knowledge and understanding. These purposes are related in some ways. For example, it may be desirable in acceptance testing to control properties important in engineering design. However, it must be recognized that in most respects tests to meet the purposes above must differ in fundamental ways. Acceptance testing should be rapid and reproducible. In contrast, tests to determine the \"life\" of electrical insulation will be long and involve many ambient conditions characteristic of use."
"There is no subject which is so fraught with empiricism as surface flashover. A tremendous amount of work has been done on the subject of breakdown in gases, solids and liquids, but practically all of it is for uniform fields in isotropic systems. When we mix a solid with a gas or a liquid so that the field is not uniform, the amount of surface, the condition of the surface and the disposition of the surface between electrodes are only a few of the variables which complicate the surface flashover problem. In addition to these, we have the geometry of the interface (method of attachment of electrodes), the relative dielectric constants of the two phases (gas and solid) and the electric strength of the gas. Moreover, the nature of the voltage applied (that is its wave shape and time duration) as well as the available power also have large effects."
"Arc resistance by the common usage definition refers to the ability of an insulator to sustain surface discharges, at currents of 10 ma and higher, without electrical or structural damage. Here moisture usually is not a significant factor among the effects, or causes, of these discharges, or arcs. In the case of tracking, on the other hand, the damaging discharges are usually less than 10 ma, and are initiated and sustained by the presence of moisture and dust. Moisture also causes tracking failures along the interior of certain insulators, as well as surface tracks. The life-time of insulation that has both low track and arc resistance, e.g., phenolic resin, can be of the order of months under tracking conditions or may take less than one second of arcing before failure occurs. In contrast to corona effects on insulation, which are due to chemical reaction of the active products of the corona discharges at currents less than 1 ma, the effects of both arcing and tracking discharges are essentially thermal, i.e., they involve high-temperature reactions such as decomposition or combustion."
"Since this paper is directed to the practical electrical designer who uses electrical insulation as only one of several elements in a complete design, it is assumed that he is not familiar with the more theoretical investigations of how and why insulations fail under high voltage stresses. For this reason, in attempting to discuss the subject of Volume Discharges and Treeing - which is a highly theoretical subject - we are approaching it in a very elementary fashion. If this simple approach helps some of you to a better understanding of electrical breakdown, we need not apologize to those who are expert in the area."
"Growing interest in corona resistance testing has resulted in the increasing use of such tests to screen materials and to obtain design data. The significance and usefulness of various test methods, therefore, warrants a critical survey. This review compares data obtained for various test arrangements and conditions to show how variation of any one of a number of factors can markedly alter the life of a material at a given stress and its relative rank. This information can serve as a guide to intelligent interpretation of test results and to the development of methods which correlate with service."
"When discharges occur on the surface of, or in internal voids in, solid dielectrics, chemical changes in the solid and the gas take place and the solid breaks down. In some cases the part played by chemical deterioration is clear. For example, a strained vulcanised natural rubber subjected to discharges in air, cracks due to ozone attack and being cracked will no longer support voltage. More commonly it is not clear if, or how, the chemical and physical processes are related. The uncertainty is apparent in the methods suggested for the measurement of discharge resistance of materials. In a British method(1) the time to breakdown of a sheet placed between rod and plate electrodes is used as a measure of discharge resistance. On the other hand in other European methods(2,3,4) a large area of sample is exposed uniformly to discharge and the weight change or change in another property used to compare one material with another. Artbauer(5,6) thinks that there are objections to both methods but favours a method based on time to breakdown. At an International Conference to mark the official opening of our Laboratories last year, Leroy, Lacoste and Bui-Ai(7) described the apparatus set up for a series of experiments to determine the relationship between discharge parameters and chemical degradation of the solid. Only a few preliminary results were reported. As in previous French work the system is designed to expose a maximum area of sample to discharges so that large amounts of deterioration products are formed to facilitate analysis. The system does not lend itself to measurement of the time to electrical breakdown. At the same Conference the present writers reported(8) some preliminary results using a cell designed primarily for the latter measurement, but arranged so that the chemical changes could also be measured. The object was to try to decide the importance of chemical deterioration in electrical breakdown. This paper describes some of the further work done on this investigation from which tentative conclusions can be drawn."
"Over the last few years, the surge test has become a very common useful tool for analyzing the quality of electrical equipment. Test stands are commercially available for installation on production lines whereby units such as stators can be quickly examined for electrical properties turn to turn, phase to phase, or coil to ground. Usually, the unit under test is compared to a \"standard\" by applying relatively high voltage surges with fast rise times at frequencies of approximately 120 cycles per second with the voltage patterns superimposed on an ocilloscope. Should there be a deviation, the test operator can determine where and why the patterns are not identical and may take corrective action. Other surge equipment is also available where comparisons are not made but pattern deviations are cause for rejection."
"The fact that thermal cycling rate has a definite effect on life values obtained on enameled wires using the AIEE No. 57 test procedure has long been recognized. For each thermal classification of enameled wires AIEE No. 57 has a proposed schedule of cycling times for each test temperature. These cycling times are designed to give each set of samples an average of ten thermal cycles before failure. These are only approximate and assume a certain life-temperature slope. In section 2-2 of AIEE No. 57 the following is suggested concerning cycles: \"Thermal life values obtained from test specimens subjected to an average of less than 8 or to more than 20 cycles at the exposure temperature may not be reliable and should not be used to predict the temperature rating of the enameled wire. Therefore, the cycle times may be increased or decreased during the aging, to assure that the average number of cycles to failure fall within this range. For example, if a set of test specimens has been exposed for 8 cycles and less than half have failed, the exposure time should be increased to the next longer time given in the vertical columns of Table II.\" Experience of people using this test has indicated that a geometric progression of cycling time in cases such as this example, is better insurance against over-cycling samples, i.e., doubling the cycling time with each test. A similar decrease in cycling times can be used when samples are failing too rapidly. It is considered important to standardize on approximately 10 cycles to failure at each temperature for the following reasons: 1. So that data obtained at different laboratories can be compared. 2. So that the slope of the life-temperature curve is not affected by varying number of cycles to failure at the different temperatures tested."
"Great strides have been made in recent years in size and weight reduction of electronic equipment. Insulated wiring and cabling, however, has not kept pact with this work. Wiring, especially, has suffered from a lack of attention, usually being one of the last items of design. Consideration is invariably relegated to a phrase such as \"Oh yeah, I need a couple of leads to go from here to there\". Reduction of wiring diameter can contribute significantly to reductions in overall system weight and size. Although not as popular as the more common avenues of electronic miniaturization such as thin-films, modularization, integrated circuits, etc., wire and cable size reduction can and should compete on an equal basis."
"The designer of conductors today has his choice of many different thermosetting and thermoplastic polymers as the basis for the electrical insulation of conductors. One of the factors which enters into the choice of material for an insulation is the temperature range through which it will remain useful."
"A new type of polymer, composed of ethylene and propylene monomeric units, has recently entered the industrial rubber field. Due to the saturated nature of the polymer chain, this new rubber, ethylene-propylene rubber, exhibits good electrical properties and excellent resistance to heat, weathering, corona and ozone. These properties, plus its flexibility and low cost (26-30/lb), have made it particularly attractive to the wire and cable industry."
"The purpose of electrical insulation is to prevent passage or leakage of electrons from conductors. Insulators are characterized by a scarcity of free electrons in their physical structure and they can be considered as conductors of very high resistivity. Compared with gases, pure non-ionic liquids have the advantage of much greater density so that leaking electrons are hindered from passing by the molecules of the liquid. Solid cellulosic-type insulation also hinders the movement of electrons, but contains voids which must be completely filled with liquid dielectric, otherwise when subjected to an electric stress, these voids will permit gas-phase ionization, which is destructive to cellulose. In modern high voltage compact power transformers and cables the liquid dielectric constitutes an integral part of the insulation."
"Studies have been made of transformers and similar equipment in which various faults have been associated with the formulation of combustible gases. It has been shown there are many reasons for the formation of combustible gases, but not all of the causes are necessarily faults. As more and more emphasis is placed on preventative maintenance of electrical equipment, the need for a thorough understanding of the causes of the gases and their relationship to trouble free operation is necessary. The analysis of the data from a transformer, indicating the presence of combustible gases, must be thorough enough to enable an operator to classify those units with possible faults and those that have combustible gases as a result of contamination from other sources."
"Recent years have seen an incresase in the use of high power electronic equipment requiring larger bank capacity and higher joule content per unit for filter capacitors. A similar increase has been experienced in the energy storage field by the rapid increase in fusion research, wind tunnel test facilities, laser research and metals forming equipment. Here again an increase in joule content, performance and bank ratings has been demanded."
"Recently there has been an increasing demand for organic materials with high dielectric constants. In addition to the novel applications made possible by high dielectric constants, there are two main uses of substantial importance for these materials. These uses are in capacitors and electroluminescent lamps. For capacitors, of course, any increase in the dielectric constant can lead to a reduction in volume for a particular capacitance, or in other words, more capacitance can be obtained from a given volume. It should go without saying, though, that a satisfactory level of volume resistivity, dissipation factor, and dielectric strength must also be maintained. For electroluminescent lamps, an increase in the dielectric constant will lead to greater light output. While volume resistivity and dissipation factor may not be as important in electroluminescent lamps as in capacitors, the dielectric strength, purity, and thermal aging characteristics become very important. Of the materials that have been used in these applications, perhaps the most noteworthy are silicone nitrile and cyanoethylated cellulose. When these materials, and others like them, are compared with cyanoethylsucrose, however, the latter is considered preferable from an economic or a dielectric standpoint or both. In this paper, the physical and electrical properties of this unusual dielectric are discussed, and some potential uses utilizing these properties are pointed out."
"Electric utilities now have an all-time peak interest in the fundamental properties of transformer insulating oils. The history of the choice and development of these oils has been largely empirical and satisfactory, but recent and continuing changes are reducing confidence based on this history. The changes include the use of inhibitors and sealed transformers, higher dielectric stresses and operating temperature, and new sources of crude oils and methods of refining. More knowledge is now needed on the minimum tests necessary to be made on any oil at any time of its service life to indicate its remaining life under its own service conditions."
"A panel of experienced people will explore current thinking on thermal classification of electrical insulating methods and systems. The subject will be discussed from both the supplier and end-user points of view. After the panel members have presented their ideas, members of the audience will have an opportunity to question the speakers on any aspect of the discussion and to express their own opinions on present thermal classification methods and systems."
"Summary form only given. The technology of insulation has accelerated in recent years. The old, time proven insulations have been improved, and new synthetic and natural insulations and composites are frequently appearing. These new insulations add to the difficulty of the designer, in trying to improve his product. His struggles to keep abreast of technological improvements are endless. Present transformer thermal classification is the part of this effort which we will explore in this paper."
"It has been amply demonstrated (1, 2, 3) that exposure to oxygen-containing environments above temperatures of 150°C will cause most of the commonly used electrical insulating materials to deteriorate (see Figure 1). Since many of these insulations are used in hermetic structures, life test data based on air aging could be misleading. The emphasis on space electronics in present-day technologies must also place important stress on performing measurements in a closely controlled environment simulating space conditions."
"There has been considerable confusion for many years as to the significance of thermal classification data for insulating materials. This paper by no means presumes to offer an easy solution to the problem, but merely wishes to discuss the issues and offer suggestions which could lead to an understanding and possibly clarification of the present confusion."
"Summary form only given. As predicted, the revision of AIEE No. 1 \"General Principles Upon Which Temperature Limits Are Based In The Rating Of Electric Equipment\" by AIEE Co-ordinating Committee No. 4 has resulted in certain abuses for thermal rating of insulating materials, systems, and equipment. These abuses are, in my judgment, not deliberate, but rather result from insufficient basic knowledge of the chemical, physical, and electrical considerations involved in the uprating of organic materials to higher temperature of operation and/or the complexities of the physical and electrical structure of insulating systems."
"The insulation field hears much about thermal life, thermal capability, heat aging and various methods of test for determining them. However, a question that usually arises which eventually must be answered is, \"What are we trying to measure?\" In an effort to seek the answer we propose that: 1. The systems tests be spoken of as compatibility tests and that their results be stated as the degree of compatibility between the system under test and some basic system; and that 2. The results of tests on varnishes or compounds and possibly other types of insulation tested alone be stated as \"The Potential Thermal Capability\" of the material."
"I believe the present published methods for establishment of the thermal classification of insulating materials and systems offer a good, practical solution to a problem that has long plagued the designer of electrical equipment."
"The thermal classification of insulating materials has a long history with the first significant consideration of the subject by Steinmentz and Lamme now fifty years old. Fifty years ago, insulation systems were relatively simple. Arbitrary separation into thermal classes defined by description and supported by operating experience was relatively simple. About 15 years ago it became very apparent that the old thermal classification of insulating materials by broad definition was no longer adequate for the extremely wide variety of materials which were rapidly becoming available."
"While considerable progress has been made in the determination of thermal endurance of insulating materials and systems, at times progress seems painfully slow. Perhaps one of the underlying causes for this slowness is that the data obtained from these test procedures often have been misinterpreted and sometimes misrepresented."
"\"Temperature classification\" and \"thermal evaluation\" need to be better understood by everyone in order to avoid abuses and to achieve satisfactory and economical use of electrical insulation in equipment. This can be best achieved by careful reading of AIEE No. 1 and its related appendices (No. 1d and No. 1e). This paper will quote copiously therefrom."
"Much has been said in the past year and a half concerning the limited usefulness of materials thermal aging tests as compared with the apparent utility of systems tests. In addition, many systems people have strongly opposed any attempt at thermal classification of materials as was once thought possible with the standardized test procedures being brought out by a number of working groups within the Committee on Electrical Insulation of the AIEE. This panel discussion will take the position that, with full cognizance of the value of the systems test, there is still a need for: (1) materials testing in certain types and (2) a limited thermal rating framework for these material types."
"Temperature classification methods can be used successfully to compare insulating materials and to rate insulation systems provided sufficient tests are run to show the interrelation that may exist between materials and provided the test methods can be shown to correlate. Tests on materials alone (not in combination) may give false indications of their thermal capabilities."
"In a very instructive article(l) on Space Science by Homer E. Newell, Director of the Office of Space Sciences of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in Washington, D.C., the following quotation is made, \"It has been decided that the United States will press forward vigorously with a manned flight program, with the objective of placing a U.S. astronaut on the moon within this decade. Thousands of people are now working with determination to accomplish this.\" In this article mention is made of some of the extremes of environment to be met by electrical apparatus aboard space craft as it leaves the earth and penetrates interplanetary space."
"Even at this stage of advanced technology it is all too common for design engineers to rely on material manufacturers' literature and claims, on some experience with a similar material to the one intended for use, and on intuition. The most efficient approach to a successful product, however, is still the scientific one. It is quite necessary to have an understanding of the chemistry and physics of the materials of construction that are considered for a new product or design concept. Assuming that this design concept is broadly established, it now becomes necessary to plan on a systematic materials study designed to meet the clearly stated objective. This paper attempts to describe such a project in the development and perfection of a motor used for a high efficiency vaneaxial fan."
"The development of one part powdered epoxy resins for spray and fluidized bed use has given the electric motor industry a new approach to ground insulation. Refinements of the epoxy systems to provide high edge coverage, high cut-through resistance, and no post cure makes them even more attractive to the motor manufacturer. The advantages of integral insulation over conventional ground insulation have been well covered in other publications (1, 2) and will not be discussed here. The acceptance of the epoxy integral insulation system by the motor industry has created the need for an easily automated production process that will produce optimum coating results."
"Epoxy integral insulation applied in powdered form by means of a spray or fluidized bed process to fractional and integral H.P. electric motors is replacing conventional ground insulation at a rapid rate. Since many of these motors with integral insulation are destined for the appliance market, the Underwriters' Laboratories, Incorporated responded to requests for U.L. listing of such appliances by instituting: 1. A test program for determining the suitability and thermal classification of the epoxy integral insulations - to be carried out by the epoxy resin vendor, and 2. a rigid inspection program of the motor manufacturer's insulating process and finished motors. The test procedure drafted by Underwriters' Laboratories for thermal classification of epoxy integral insulation is described in this paper with an analysis of test data determined on a hydrazide quick curing epoxy resin system. The test method developed by the Underwriters' Laboratories in conjunction with resin suppliers to classify integral insulation is patterned to a great extent after the AIEE No. 510 Test Procedure. The test specifies exposure of the insulation specimens to heat, mechanical stress, thermal shock, and moisture representing an accelerated, cumulative deteriorating effect of service on the integral insulation. Periodic voltage checks are used to establish the end point of insulation life."
"Economics of manufacturing has dictated that the indoor housing of process facilities be limited to the minimum possible, that necessary only to protect the products. Where the material in process is housed in pipes, totally enclosed vessels, etc., it does not usually need additional weather protection, so the trend toward completely outdoor plants has become the rule rather than the exception. This has placed resistance to water as an additional requirement on electric motor insulation. Outdoors, this water can be either in the form of precipitation or condensation. It would appear that splashproof or totally enclosed motors would be protected from precipitation, but this just isn't so. Even if other paths are completely protected, a considerable quantity of water will enter a totally enclosed motor via the conduit and terminal box. Diversion of the conduit water and drain holes in the bottom of the motor are necessary to minimize the water level in these outdoor motors. Even these provisions do not keep some water from going through the motors, and insulation failures due to water action are frequent. The usually mild climate and plentiful raw materials along our southern \"Gulf\" coast have made this area attractive for chemical manufacturing utilizing the outdoor plant concept. The extremely severe condensation conditions, coupled with an occasional hurricane and frequent gales with heavy rain brought the water-prone insulation situation into sharp focus."
"One of the first practical industrial applications of electric power some 75 years ago was a motor turning a shaft. Both the magnitude and diversity of motor applications have since had a tremendous growth, and in the more recent years this trend has been increasing rather than diminishing. In many industries, particularly the chemical industry, the environment in which the motor must operate has appreciably changed as new products have been developed and placed in production. Unfortunately, many of these environments have had a detrimental effect on the electrical insulation necessitating either frequent replacement or more extensive protection of the windings."
"The need for weatherproof-chemical resistant insulation systems for form wound pre-insulated motor field coils has received greater emphasis in recent years. This has been due partially to the desire to use lower cost open-frame motor designs and to the advent of new electrical insulating materials capable of withstanding moist and corrosive environments."
"The curable epoxy tape hereafter referred to as Fibremat V was developed primarily for the insulation of form-wound coils. Fibremat V i provides a tough insulating sheath with resistance to most commonly encountered chemicals and solvents, and will retain mechanical and electrical integrity in excess Of 75,000 hours at 130°C as determined by curved electrode tests. The flexibility of the tape before and after cure permits its use in high speed rotating equipment where a more rigid resin would be subject to cracking from vibration and distortion. In the highly cross-linked cured form, the resin is resistant to water, brine, dilute acids, aliphatic hydrocarbons, and some aromatic hydrocarbons. The resin is subject to attack by strong bases, and is swollen by ketones, esters and aromatic hydrocarbons."
"The whole useful life of hydrogen-cooled turbogenerators must be considered in planning generator operation and maintenance practices. Factors to be considered in planning an operating program include cyclic loading, stator and rotor temperatures, core temperatures, differential expansion, expected useful life of turbogenerator, system configuration, etc."
"This paper summarizes data obtained on the voltage endurance and corona resistance of various electrical insulations in sheet and film form. The method of testing and its limitations are discussed. The improvement in voltage endurance and corona resistance obtained by incorporating oriented mica flake in various organic insulation systems is shown."
"The insulation of high voltage stator windings for electric utility generators must have a very high order of reliability. Machines of this category have always been of extreme importance because of their size with the accompanying high capital investment and the dependence of so many things in our society upon their continuous and uninterrupted operation. Lately, the size of these machines, particularly steam driven turbine generators, has increased tremendously, so that units are now being produced with ratings of 500 MVA and more on single shafts. Waterwheel generators are approaching a size of 300 MVA. These sizes will continue to increase in the future and it is almost a certainty that turbine generators will soon approach 1000 MVA, possibly within 5 years. This means that extremely large blocks of power are dependent upon the insulation. Figure 1 is a view in a winding aisle showing parts of a typical waterwheel generator and a turbine generator of the types employed by electric utilities."
"The long range scheduling of periodic maintenance on large turbine generators is of increasing importance with units of larger generating capacities, and the corresponding higher penalty for forced outage time. With larger machine sizes go increased magnetic and mechanical forces, more complex equipment, and more auxiliary equipment, as well as more automation of the entire system. Planned maintenance can reduce or minimize forced outages on these powermakers occurring during peak load periods."
"The construction of a 42,000 KVA, 28 pole, 13.8 KV hydroelectric generator may be a commonplace occurrence in the factories of the large electrical manufacturers of North America. But it is far from an everyday event in a country such as Brazil. In fact, the machine of this rating now being built in G. E.'s new plant in Campinas should be considered an accomplishment of some magnitude for Americans, since it represents the first large vertical waterwheel generator ever built by an American company in Brazil."
"Industrial competition today is placing ever increasing pressures on the manufacturing industry to produce quality products at reduced cost. The market continues to be flooded with variations of the different products, each trying to catch the eye of the buyer either through appearance or some outstanding feature. Imports from foreign countries have contributed to this condition by lower prices through lower production costs."
"When repairing rotating equipment in the repair shop, the problem is often not just replacing what was originally in the unit, but in many cases to determine whether some special environment or application caused the failure - and to correct it so that it will not happen again."
"The loss in production due to sudden unanticipated equipment failures has conservatively been estimated by numerous experts to cost American industry in excess of three hundred million dollars annually. If this figure seems astounding try to imagine what this cost might be in future years when more and more of the sophisticated automated production and processing plants have replaced present production facilities."
"Electric machines include essentially rotating and stationary elements, each of which contains conductors, a magnetic circuit and insulation. The electrical insulation determines the reliability to a marked degree. The insulation structure is complex in nature wherein the various parts are required to withstand mechanical, dielectric and thermal stresses. The nature of the stress depends upon operating conditions, physical size of the machine, the machine component and other design factors. Operating conditions include the type of service such as continuous duty versus cyclic, ambient conditions including possible exposure to contaminating influences."
"Overloads are a major cause of failure with wound armature rotating equipment. The reason for this is: 1. Rotating equipment, because of the nature of its application is often subjected to mechanical or electrical overloads and thus overheating. 2. The insulation system in a wound armature is subject to large centrifugal forces due to high rotational speeds and/or large diameters. This combination of high temperatures and large forces can result in premature failure of the equipment. Often the deciding factor which determines whether a motor or generator endures or fails the overload is the type of magnet wire in the armature. Much has been learned from actual field usage and experience about the suitability of existing types of magnet wires for applications of this type. There have also been a number of test methods proposed to predetermine how a magnet wire will perform in this application. The results of some of these tests agree with actual performance, others do not. This paper is a study of the performance of various types of magnet wire in an actual overloaded wound armature rotating equipment. It also discusses a laboratory test which can explain and predict the performance of a magnet wire in this application."
"This session is devoted to the insulation problems in the manufacture and use of transformers. These problems result from the progress in determining the life of equipment from many viewpoints. New materials and ways of using them, processes, quality control, and corona effects, are illustrated as problems in the papers being presented."
"Coatings applied from powders are now serving many insulating and finish applications, particularly on motors and transformers, and the list of uses is expanding. To meet the needs with products which are strong in the most essential performance characteristics, polyester powders have been specially designed to meet integral insulation and protective coating requirements. They are very well suited in service where long life and outstanding protection against corrosion are required under severe thermal and moisture conditions. Substantial savings through redesign can result when advantage is taken of these high bonding, tough, impact resistant films."
"A unique test method for screening transformer insulation systems was presented in a paper (1) during the 1962 Electrical Insulation Conference. This test method referred to as \"Progressive Temperature Testing\" was based on increasing the test temperature in finite steps until the insulation system fails. The test temperatures and times were selected in accordance with the Arrhenius(2) relationship of the logarithm of life and the reciprocal of absolute temperature."
"In today's electro-atomic-aerospace atmosphere, continued demands are being placed on industry for ultra performance materials. One step forward in our quest for such materials is the development of diphenyl oxide derivatives. The use of the basic building block diphenyl oxide is not new. It has served as a component in Dowtherm ® heat transfer agents for many years. The new accomplishment is the transforming of this known high temperature performance chemical into a usable resinous form with high temperature performance properties. The two resins we will be discussing are the initial result of a continuing effort to develop diphenyl oxide (DPO) resin products. They represent a new family of resins which perform in the epoxysilicone high temperature sphere. Since the exact chemistry of these derivatives is still a subject of patent disclosures, the description of these resins will be confined to \"diphenyl oxide condensation resins having water as the major by-product of the final chemical combination\"."
"This paper presents a comparison of class H resins as applied to dry type distribution and power transformers of 220° C insulation class. The resins evaluated include silicones and a new family derived from diphenyl oxide. The distribution transformers include ratings through 5000 volt class and 500 KVA, and the power transformers include ratings through 15,000 volt class and 10,000 KVA. The applications utilize these resins as varnishes for impregnating coils and core-coil assemblies and as laminating resins for fabrication of insulating tubes. Comparisons are made which show the thermal, mechanical and dielectric advantages of the diphenyl oxide resins over the silicone."
"Today, with the development of switchgear and circuit breakers aimed toward increased ratings while the physical size is steadily becoming smaller, we have to put greater emphasis on our electrical insulation requirements. Because of these conditions, we have to review our requirements with greater care than before and have to give more consideration in the selection of materials and their properties."
"There are three basic areas of insulation in switchgear of today. These are the Bus Bars, Bushings and Transformers. In all cases the insulation must be able to withstand high voltages and have good mechanical properties at temperature ranges of - 40°C to 130°C. It must also be capable of being readily formed into complex shapes and sizes. Most conventional forms of insulations of today do not possess these qualities. Cast Epoxy, however, has all of these properties-and more. Epoxy resins were first developed in Europe over 16 years ago; however, they were not fully developed until about 10 years ago when a leading European manufacturer of switchgear gave birth to a cast epoxy insulated bar type current transformer with embedded primary conductor and secondary winding. Encouraged by this success, they extended this form of insulation to other parts of their switch units. Today the insulation medium of most of their high voltage switchgear is cast epoxy and all new designs of this range of switchgear are based on cast epoxy insulation. As a result of their bold step forward, many switchgear manufacturers in Europe now use cast epoxy as the main insulation medium on their high voltage switchgear. In the United States, the types of insulations most commonly used in switchgear are Porcelain, Bakelized Paper, Impregnated Fabrics and Glass Polyesters. None of these insulants possess all of the following requirements for good insulation: Good Electrical and Mechanical Properties, Non-Hygroscopic, Flame Retarding and being readily formed into complex shapes of any size at low cost. Many of the conventional types of insulation are often combined. As an example, Figure 1 shows an epoxy insulated bus bar disconnect. This unit would have consisted of a metal flange or housing in which is cemented the porcelains. The conductors from the porcelains would be insulated with impregnated paper or polyester tubes. The joint at the bus bar would be insulated with varnished tapes. All of these steps require assembly time to insulate and assemble the parts. The shape of the connecting conductors is also limited because of the problem of insulating bent or curved conductors. With the use of cast epoxy, it is possible to eliminate all of the pre-assembly operations as well as to reduce the overall size of the units. Switchgear designers are also freed from the problem of fitting conventional shapes and sizes into their units. They are able to let their imaginations run wild as long as they design within the electrical and mechanical properties of cast epoxy. Epoxy resins are not a cheap form of insulation. If it is used to replace an existing component without redesign, the cost could prohibit its use. Components should be designed around epoxy insulation. By doing this, a more sound insulation will be achieved together with a reduction in costs and overall dimensions as compared to conventional type of insulation."
"Manufacturers and purchasers of switchgear alike are looking for value and reliability in the insulation materials and systems employed. In an effort to assure these essential qualities, a program for environmental testing of switchgear assemblies has been developed and is described in this paper."
"In many areas of electrical equipment - generators, for example - the constant push toward greater performance levels has made necessary a frequent reappraisal of the materials available for design purposes. This is no less true in switchgear. In the case of arc barriers, the number of available materials has in the past been fairly limited to a group of organic-bonded laminates on the one hand and a small family of moldable inorganic systems on the other. Panels and auxiliary equipment have had a somewhat greater range, but are nevertheless equally pressured to keep an eye on any potentially useful developments. Among these may now be included in mica composition having the frequently-desirable anisotropy of a laminated structure combined with the superior thermal and life properties of a non-resin-based system."
"Presents the front cover of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents page of the proceedings record."
"This Appendix may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Over the superimposed d.c. stress range of 0.04 to 40.0 V/mil, loss tangents are reduced by increasing d.c. stresses in almost a uniform manner. That d.c. and a.c. conductances are equivalent at the high stress levels only, indicates that the loss tangents measured at such superimposed d.c. stresses are indicative of the true state of polarization effected by the d.c. stress. Under such conditions, ε' remains unaffected. Both a.c, and d.c conductance activation energies agree essentially with that for viscous flow. The d.c. current-voltage relationships are in agreement with what has been noted in the recent literature for a similar chemical system and can be interpreted, at least partially, on a theoretical basis."
"We have developed a method which might prove useful for studying the properties of ions in viscous liquids. Results obtained with an “Esso” transformer oil of 0.33 poise viscosity at room temperature are given to illustrate the method."
"As a result of the extensive studies of high-field conduction and flashover in dielectric liquids it is becoming clear that the mechanism of electrical breakdown in such materials is related to the pre-breakdown charge flow. At present it is not known whether the current gives rise to significant heating such that failure occurs due to a thermal run-away1 or whether space-charge accumulation due to electrode blocking can result in intense localized stress regions in which collision ionization can effect catastrophic current amplification."
"The resistivity of polyethylene including voltage stabilizing additives is higher than that of the base material with no additives. In the experimental copolymer, however, the addition of a stabilizer decreases the resistivity. This phenomenon is being further investigated. All of the polyethylenes exhibit an increase in conductivity with increasing applied stress. This characteristic is beneficial in a d.c. cable, since the stréss thereby tends to equalize through the wall, or at least to show less variation than it does in the a.c. case with capacitive distribution. This enhancement of conductivity apparently does not exist for the experimental copolymer."
"Electrical and mechanical properties of commercial high-pressure polyethylene have been studied prior and after irradiation, with technological rather than purely scientific purposes. Most of the measurements were made on 0.1 cm thick samples, cut from a laminate of 0.57 crystallinity."
"The Schottky field enhanced emission equation appears to be applicable to a wide variety of structures. It has the following form, equation where A is Richardson's constant, S the area, φ the work function, d is the separation distance, k is Boltzmann's constant, T is in degrees Kelvin, ε0 the permittivity constant, V the applied voltage, e the electronic charge and εr is the relative dielectric constant."
"Thin film sandwich structures containing a dielectric layer of silicon monoxide approximately 300 to 1000 Å thick between gold electrodes show a low frequency negative differential resistance, Figures 1-a and 1-a'. Hickmott has observed a low frequency negative resistance in a wide variety of sandwich structures."
"The experimental results described above indicate that if somewhere in the liquid phase breakdown conditions are present, the cable insulation will break down. Hence, it can be concluded that for the most desirable extra-high-voltage cable construction, the following material properties are needed to fulfill requirement 1 of the introduction: 1. Use an electrically strong liquid. 2. Use plastics with ε1 ≈ εs. 3. Use thin tapes to decrease the height of the liquid gap."
"The “paper/thin mineral oil” composite dielectric used as insulation in high voltage cables dates back to 1924 when the first hollow core cable (a 130 kv pioneer) was experimentally laid at Brugherio (Milan, Italy). Since then, thanks to continuous investigations and growing experience, each single characteristic of this impregnant has been brought more and more into focus, eventually reaching the at present strictly defined features."
"Cyanoethylated polyvinyl alcohol (CEPVA) polymers are made by reacting acrylonitrile with polyvinyl alcohol (PVA). In this reaction, called cyanoethylation, hydroxy (OH) groups on the PVA chain are progressively replaced by cyanoethyl ether linkages (-OCH2-CH2CN) derived from the acrylonitrile. By stopping the reaction at appropriate times, the percentage replacement of (OH), called the degree of cyanoethylation (D.S.) can be varied from Zero to 100%. The nitrogen (N) content of the resulting polymer is a measure of its D.S.; 14.42% N being equivalent to 100% D.S."
"Solid electrical insulating materials, especially nigh polymeric materials, often show dielectric relaxation phenomena in the range of very low frequencies. In order to study such properties, some very low frequency bridges1,2 have been developed. However, it is tedious to measure the dielectric properties at frequencies below 0.03 cps by the a.c. bridge method. Therefore, it becomes necessary to make use of the method for deducing a.c. characteristics from the absorption current measurement. In this paper, the first, the Hamon's approximate method is re-examined with the view of determining the magnitude of dielectric dispersion and the frequency of loss maximum, and it is shown that the method is applicable to the present purpose without any restrictive conditions given by Hamon. The second, the linearity of dielectric properties in the range of very low frequencies is examined about some liquid and solid insulating materials and the origins of non-linearity are briefly discussed. Finally, several interesting characteristics of polymers are illustrated in order to prove the utilities of very low frequency measurements."
"Several important observations have developed during this study. They may be summarized as follows: 1. Good seal strengths can be obtained with high purity beryllia ceramics. 2. Presence of silica someplace in the system, i.e., either in the ceramic or in the metalizing mix, tends to contribute to good seal strength. 3. Varying the manganese-silica ratio by a magnitude of 3 does not seem to affect seal strength. 4. Seal strength is related to temperature, with lower temperatures producing the best results. 5. Effect of the mixes cited in this study on thermal conductivity are uncertain, but void-free, high thermal conductivity seals can be obtained with the mixes cited."
"Many of the crystals of organic compounds are molecular crystals, which are aggregates of a large number of perturbed molecules (perturbed by the neighboring molecules). In such crystalline states molecules keep their identity while bound to each other through weak attractive forces. Among such crystals are the pure crystals of aromatic compounds, typically polyacenes, Even though these molecular crystals are essentially insulators, the electrical current can be increased a thousandfold by irradiating with ultra violet light in the fundamental absorption region."
"This discussion concerns recent experiments which lend insight into the mechanism of carrier generation. Consideration is given to the actual experimental arrangements and to the author's observations and conclusions."
"It is my experience that most scientists look at organic and inorganic crystals from two entirely different points of view, and they therefore have an intuitive feeling that the motion of electrons through an organic crystal must differ in some fundamental way from that in inorganic crystals. The argument of this paper is that this expectation is incorrect and that, on the contrary, electronic transport in organic crystals proceeds by the same sorts of processes and can be described with the same sorts of theories as in inorganic crystals."
"Using a pulsed photoconductivity technique, the drift mobilities of electrons and holes in anthracene have been measured as a function of temperature, pressure and crystal orientation. The mobility of both electrons and holes is of the order of one cm2/ volt sec and increases as the temperature is lowered, indicating that band theory is applicable. The anisotropy and pressure dependences of the mobilities are consistent with theoretical calculations."
"The electrical conductivities of organic polymeric systems have been the subject of considerable effort, but it has not been possible to correlate quantitatively the observations with chemical and/or physical structures. This report will treat the two main factors controlling the conductivity, carrier(s) generation and mobility, and will emphasize their relative importance in hypothesized mechanisms for organic conductors and insulators. Techniques for measuring this conduction will be discussed and it will be shown that seldom does the measurement reflect a \"true\" bulk conductivity. The lack of physically credible data has minimized progress on the understanding of conduction in organic systems. The application of more reliable experimental methods is beginning to generate data which will prove useful for mechanistic description of electrical conduction in organic solids."
"An accurate determination of the low frequency dielectric constant of a solid specimen is usually made with a guarded electrode. In order to calculate the dielectric constant of the specimen accurately, it is necessary to know the effective area of the guarded electrode, which is greater than the actual area. The correction for this increase in area depends upon the width of the gap, g, between the guard and guarded electrodes, the thickness of the electrodes, d, the thickness of the specimen, t, and the ratio of the dielectric constant of the specimen, ε, and the dielectric constant of the media filling the gap between the electrodes εg. The purpose of this paper is to discuss certain misstatements appearing in the recent literature concerning this correction and to present some new results that elucidate the dependence of this correction upon the various factors cited above."
"Accurate measurements of dielectric properties of materials by the three-terminal air-gap method require accurate knowledge of the area of the electrodes. The two fluid method enables us to measure the dielectric constant of a specimen without knowledge of the area of the cell electrodes, or of the thickness of the specimen, if the electrode spacing and area remain constant during the set of four measurements required. But it is now known that the effective area is a function of the dielectric constant of the specimen being measured by this technique. The problem now is to determine the magnitude of this change of area, and evaluate its effect on the dielectric constants measured."
"The air-gap method of making dielectric measurements is an attractive one because it is not necessary to apply electrodes to the specimen or to measure its area. The disadvantages of the air-gap method are (1) that it can be used effectively for precise measurements only with a guard-ring type of cell (or holder) and (2) that the thickness of the specimen must be measured more precisely than when contact electrodes are used. The second requires that the specimen must be very carefully prepared to a uniform thickness. This means that a three-terminal measurement must be made and such measurements can in general only be made at frequencies of 100 KHz and below."
"The results indicate that the proposed dielectric measuring system can be successfully used to measure ε' (±1%) and ε\" (±5%) of moderately low loss, low dielectric constant disk shaped specimens/and that the method can he adapted to low temperature measurements. A suggested low temperature design is shown in Figure 3. The important considerations are minimum lead length, rigid ceramic mounts between the holder and spacing measuring assembly, plastic foam heat insulation, and a fast and convenient way of inserting and removing the specimen, the reference ball gauge and the temperature measuring thermocouples. Cooling will be accomplished by passing dry nitrogen gas, precooled to a constant temperature, through and around the holder. At -200°C there will be about 4 watts of heat entering the holder chamber, which amount would seem acceptable. No additional problems are anticipated. A more sensitive micrometer system should result in increased precision even at low temperatures."
"A new high temperature, low loss capacitor has been proposed and its properties described. The capacitor exhibits promise in temperature stability, dissipation factor in the range of 100 to 200°C, high corona starting voltage levels, low capacitance drift, and in mechanical properties. The weakness is relatively low dielectric strength and moisture sensitivity of the uncalendered material."
"The breakdown of small spark gaps in air is not generally considered a predictable or controllable phenomenon; statistical time lag and breakdown voltage may vary by orders of magnitude. Typical test data for physically identical 0,002-inch gaps are shown in Figure 1. This represents the state of the art of two years ago."
"This paper describes the results of an experimental study of the electric strength of SrTiO3 single crystals as a function of temperature, geometry, and duration of applied field. The results are somewhat anomalous when compared to simpler dielectrics such as the alkali halides. An unexpected thickness dependence was observed and the temperature dependence was opposite that predicted by the accepted theories of intrinsic breakdown and observed with the alkali halides. In addition the statistical scatter in the results shows a dependence on temperature and geometry. These anomalies can be qualitatively explained by considering the large electrostrictive strains produced at high fields and low temperature."
"When a high voltage gradient is applied to an insulating material and a dielectric puncture results, the failure may occur progressively rather than instantaneously. If a sharp point is used as an electrode, the electric stress adjacent to it is high compared with that of the rest of the stressed insulation. Dielectric failure begins at this point and progresses to the other electrode. With such a nonuniform field the growth of the failure channel can be observed in a transparent insulation. The rate of progression of the failure can be adjusted to any desired value by control of geometry and stress. Because of their shape, the incomplete failure channels are referred to as \"dendrite\" or \"treed\" These phenomena suggest the development of research test methods to compare the behavior of insulating compounds."
"With High Voltage Engineering Corporation's development of the Insulating Core Transformer power supply, the use of insulation at high levels of d.c. gradient became mandatory. Very little information is available as to the ultimate d.c. dielectric strength of insulating materials, and, as standard measurements (ASTM-D149) are not applicable in these areas, a program was initiated to obtain data on various thermoplastic materials."
"It has already been reported1 that the electric strength of argon liquid with steady voltage depends on the nature of the electrodes. In particular the strength is strongly influenced by the anode as well as by the cathode surface when oxygen is present as an impurity. The present investigation extends the earlier work by considering the electrode effects in more detail."
"There are several reasons for studying the electrical behavior of gases at high pressure. Since the strength increases as the pressure is raised there is obvious industrial interest, but there is also great interest in determining whether the Townsend mechanisms of breakdown and Paschen's law are maintained as the gas density increases. The increased strength also leads to the possibility of field emission and other electrode effects. Further if the gas density is sufficiently high there is the possibility of linking these investigations to corresponding studies of the liquid phase as Young1 and Sharbaugh and Watson2 and others have shown."
"This paper concerns flashover studies in total darkness in dry air on right angle cylinders of Pyrex and glass with pulsed voltages."
"Experiments have demonstrated that one minute spark through a puncture in a dielectric film on the anode can trigger a series of pulsed discharges which terminate in sparkover. Further work is in progress to study the exact conditions which result in sparkover and to determine the mechanism involved."
"The plasma torch, at least in its basic concept if not in its experimental realization, is a straight-forward idea and contains no new physics. An ionized gas is placed in the magnetic field of the workcoil of an induction furnace and this field acts on the gas much as it would on a metal - currents are induced in the gas and resistance to this current produces heat. There are, of course, differences between a gas and a metal and consequently some experimental problems in keeping a flowing gas conducting and the torch stable."
"Large gaps exist in our present knowledge of the conditions which influence the operating life of insulations. Further work should be done to determine the following: (a) decrease in life with respect to voltage; (b) decrease in breakdown voltage as a function of temperature; (c) reduction in life caused by mechanical stress (vibration, shock, etc.); (d) the effect of temperature on item (c); (e) reduction in life as a function of humidity; (f) the effect of temperature on item (e); (g) reduction in life as a function of radiation; and (h) the effect of temperature on item (g). Once this data is available, realistic test codes can be written and accurate insulation life prediction will be possible."
"It was demonstrated that the room-temperature dissipation factor at 1000 cps correlated with the room-temperature tensile strength of a cast epoxy material for wide variations in the cure cycle and the formulation, and that the correlation was significant below the 1% level. Thus, tan δ measurements appear to he a promising means for monitoring the tensile strength of the material. Tan δ measurements also appear to be promising for monitoring the ablation weight loss of the material. Barcol hardness and specific gravity were shown to be poor indicators of variations within the material. It was felt that tan δ measurements could possibly be used in place of the heat distortion test. It is recommended that the use of electrical measurements be considered in similar applications involving other materials."
"Within the past few years, aircraft wire fires have occurred wherein the associated wire protective devices did not operate. This paper summarizes the main points of the research completed to date. Although this hazard is newly identified, it does not readily occur. Nevertheless, it is believed to have always existed to some degree."
"The purpose of this paper is to present the results of a heat age study conducted at 204°C and 238°C on certain properties of silicone rubber considered important in an application of this type. These properties include: durometer, shrinkage, weight loss and compression set. The type specimens utilized in the evaluation were transfer molded buttons and bars. The specimens were heat aged for a period of 1000 hours in air circulating ovens."
"Presents the call for nominations for the PTGAP Administrative Committee."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"Presents information on APS chapter events and meetings."
"Presents listings of APS chapter officers by city and state."
"Presents information on upcoming APS events and meetings."
"Presents information relevant to APS journals and transactions."
"Presents listings of APS publlished articles and authors in January 1963."
"Presents listings of APS publlished articles and authors in the field of communications in January 1963."
"Presents listings of APS publlished articles and authors in March 1963."
"Presents listings of APS publlished articles and authors in the field of communications in March 1963."
"Presents information on the 1962 Proceedings of Symposium on Electromagnetic Theory and Antennas."
"Presents the table of contents and papers presented at the Proceedings of Symposium on Electromagnetic Theory and Antennas that was held in Copenhagen, June 25-30, 1962."
"Briefly discusses the installation of a 150-foot parabolic antenna by the U.S. Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories."
"Presents the professional activities and work-related events of select APS members."
"Briefly reports on the topic of kilomegacycles and its properties."
"Presents the address of the new editor for this issue of the publication."
