"The double-Kelvin transmission line is formed when two layers of dielectric and two layers of resistive material of uniform width and thickness are placed on top of a conductive layer. The open-circuit impedance function and voltage transfer function for the two-port formed by this device are derived. The conditions for real-frequency zeros in the transfer function are developed and a locus of line parameters yielding lines with real-frequency zeros is given. The general case for the transfer function of the double-Kelvin twoport when connected in series with a linear and passive impedance is considered. Experimental verification of the analytical results are shown for three physical realizations of the double line using lumped-element circuits, thin-film circuits and parallel-plate circuits."
"This paper presents several procedures for the synthesis of various transfer functions by means of networks containing positive resistances, positive capacitances, and a minimum number of ideal tunnel diodes (represented by a parallel combination of a positive capacitor and a negative resistor). Use of tunnel diodes is shown to allow realization of arbitrary transmission zeroes by means of grounded RC tunnel-diode networks. The tunnel diode may be employed either to improve the gain obtainable by passive realization techniques or to synthesize transfer functions that are notRCrealizable. In addition to a cascade synthesis technique to realize right-half-plane transmission zeroes, a method is presented to realize any voltage transfer ratio with unrestricted transmission zeroes by employing a single tunnel diode."
"The short-circuit collector current of many silicon transistors is proportional to the exponential of the emitter-base voltage over 9 decades of collector current (10^{-11} ato10^{-2} a). Such a transistor may be connected as a three-terminal feedback network in an operational amplifier to obtain accurate logarithmic transfer response over a dynamic range of 9 decades."
"This paper is concerned with the analysis, design, and physical embodiment of a sample and hold circuit for use in a high speed, high performance (9-digit) PCM system. A precision bilateral gate employing gallium arsenide diodes is at the heart of the circuit. Subnanosecond recovery time, low capacitance (<1 pf), and large forward conductance characterize the gate diodes. Switching of the gate is accomplished at about a 12 Mc/sec sampling rate by a fast driver circuit. To prevent excess current drain from the signal source a constant current source is switched in by the driver to dominate charging of the holding capacitor when the difference between the input and held voltages is large. As the input and output signals approach correspondence, RC charging from the signal source predominates. The approximate dual mode operation of the gate permits a piecewise linear analysis applicable to transmission and switching performance. An equivalent block diagram for the sample and hold circuit is developed that contains linear filters and zero memory nonlinear networks. Nonlinear distortion is evaluated for a bandlimited white noise probe. To approach an over-all system performance limited largely by quantizing noise, the sample and hold circuit must be designed to introduce minimum signal impairment. This necessitates switching in less than one nanosecond and maintenance of the held waveform flat to within about one part in 5,000. Achievement of these difficult requirements is assured through careful analysis, design, and embodiment and has been verified by experiment."
"This paper considers necessary and sufficient conditions for the canonic realization of a reactance functionZ(s)in terms of cascaded nonsymmetric LC lattice sections defined in the paper. These conditions are stated in terms of the requirement that ifZ'(s)is the derivative ofZ(s)with respect tos, thenj\\omega^{2} Z'(j\\omega) Z'(\\omega) = Z (\\omega) Z(j\\omega)must have a real positive root\\omega = \\omega_0. Extensions of these conditions to one-port, RLC networks are also considered."
"A method is proposed whereby any polynomial can be approximated in an equiripple manner by a rational function. The properties and construction of such a rational function are discussed. Some of the advantages of the proposed form are: 1) approximations with less than the maximum number of ripples can be obtained, 2) the location of the error extrema within the approximation interval can be specified, and 3) polynomials more general than a constant can be approximated. Several examples are used to illustrate the theory."
"A new dimension to the time-domain synthesis problem is proposed. In particular, the objective is to find a realizable signal that approximates a given distribution (ie., generalized function). A solution is then presented, several convergence criteria are discussed, and some examples are given. A feature of the present technique is that, if the Laplace transform of the given distribution is known, the realizable approximating signal can be written down without any computation; it only requires values of the Laplace transform at various points in its region of convergence. The method also yields a convenient technique for \"visualizing\" those distributions that cannot be plotted. Since ordinary locally integrable functions are special cases of distributions, the technique is significant for the customary time-domain synthesis problem as well."
"This paper presents circuit models for calculating the switching time of transistor blocking oscillators operating in the nanosecond time domain. The accuracy of the original theory proposed by Linvill and Mattson is tested using transistors with increasing alpha cutoff frequency. It is found that this theory gives close correlation between measured and calculated switching time for low-frequency transistors; however, for high-frequency units, differences as large as an order of magnitude exist. A new model is presented which adequately describes the oscillator performance with high-frequency transistors. Although large signals are involved in the circuit's operation, a large-signal transistor model is necessary only during a description of initial turnon. Switching time minimization is studied using the new models by examining the sensitivity of the oscillator switching time to variation in circuit model parameters. Graphs which show theoretical and measured sensitivity to parameter variation are presented. Three blocking oscillators have been constructed and tested to experimentally verify the accuracy of the new models. Measured results demonstrate that the equations derived from the new circuit models are quite adequate for calculating switching times of blocking oscillators in the nanosecond region."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of obtaining an insertion-loss function having a preassigned equal ripple in the pass band, and satisfying attenuation requirements with a maximum possible margin over the stop band. A major problem is involved in choosing attenuation poles so as to maximize the minimum of the difference between the attenuation function and the attenuation specification function. The existence and uniqueness of an optimal solution to this min-max problem are demonstrated in this paper. A simple optimality criterion is established as a necessary and sufficient condition, and this clarifies the nature of the problem. An iterative numerical procedure, suitable for digital computers, is supplied with proof of convergence. An illustrative example is also included."
"The feasibility of interconnecting many identical stages of low-Qlow-gain band-pass amplifiers to constitute a high selectivity filter is studied. The mathematical problem of obtaining the narrowest bandwidth and the highest rejection ratio, for a given number of stages is formulated. A solution is given for two classes of networks where the optimum properties of Chebyshev polynomials are applicable. Examples for the optimum combination of band-pass stages, low-pass stages, and the output sensors of a semiconductor delay line are given."
"This paper considers the feasibility of simultaneous multicommodity flows with specified values in a capacity-limited communication network. A class of \"bi-path networks\" is defined and some basic topological properties of such networks are derived. It is shown that a bi-path networkBsatisfies a requirement matrix\\bar{R}if, and only if, the value of each simple cutset inBis no smaller than the corresponding cutset value in the \"requirement network\"R. This result can be readily extended to the case with time-varying requirements. The optimal synthesis can be solved using linear programming techniques if linear cost can be assumed."
"In a classic paper by Guillemin,[ E. A. Guillemin, \"New methods of driving-point and transfer impedance synthesis,\" Proc. of Symp. on Modern Network Synthesis, Polytechnic Inst. of Brooklyn, N. Y., vol. 5, p. 119; 1955.] the synthesis of a dissipationless LC \"zero-section\" filter which has quadruplet zeros of transmission was demonstrated. Guillemin's procedure involved the factorization of (1) below. In this paper an alternate process for the realization of such a zero section is presented. The computational processes involved in this method are simpler than those required in Guillemin's method because factorization of (1) is not required."
"This paper briefly reviews the distributed communication network concept in which each station is connected to all adjacent stations rather than to a few switching points, as in a centralized system. The payoff for a distributed configuration in terms of survivability in the cases of enemy attack directed against nodes, links or combinations of nodes and links is demonstrated. A comparison is made between diversity of assignment and perfect switching in distributed networks, and the feasibility of using low-cost unreliable communication links, even links so unreliable as to be unusable in present type networks, to form highly reliable networks is discussed. The requirements for a future all-digital data distributed network which provides common user service for a wide range of users having different requirements is considered. The use of a standard format message block permits building relatively simple switching mechanisms using an adaptive store-and-forward routing policy to handle all forms of digital data including digital voice. This network rapidly responds to changes in the network status. Recent history of measured network traffic is used to modify path selection. Simulation results are shown to indicate that highly efficient routing can be performed by local control without the necessity for any central, and therefore vulnerable, control point."
"This paper is a parametric study of active satellite repeater communications links in a jamming environment. Under heavy jamming conditions with an earth coverage satellite antenna, the communication effectiveness of the link is presented as a oneparameter family of curves. A crucial parameter which is a figure of merit of the link isPD^{2}/T, wherePis the power radiated by the active satellite repeater,Dis the diameter of the receiving dish andTis the receiving system noise temperature. Jamming-limited and thermal noise-limited conditions are identified and their implications are discussed."
"In this communication, a family of sampling formulas are developed which have better convergence properties than the standard formula based on amplitude samples taken at the Nyquist rate. Sampling is done at higher than the minimum rate and a sampling function, whose Fourier transform has cosine tapered skirts, is used. Suitable choice of the taper results in a formula with no \"crosstalk\" at the sampling instants. Interpolation between samples generally requires fewer samples than required by the standard formula. Tables and curves for several cases are provided."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A receiver which employs coherent, or synchronous, detection must have knowledge of the phase of the received signal. In general, the receiver acquires this knowledge from sighals received previously over the channel. The result of this measurement process is a noisy phase reference which is then used by the receiver in the detection of the incoming signals. In this paper the effect of using baud decisions to direct the phase measurement process (decision-directed measurement) is investigated by means of Monte Carlo computer simulation of a coherent, binary communication system employing either orthogonal or phase-reversal signaling. The results are compared with those obtained from similar systems using nondecision-directed measurement. Analytical verification of the computer results is provided for particular cases. Error rates are given at several signal-to-noise ratios. The central conclusion of this study is that detection using a phase reference obtained through the decision-directed technique outlined herein results in system error rates which are generally lower, at all signal-to-noise ratios, than error rates of corresponding nondecision-directed phase measurement schemes. A \"run-away\" phenomenon, in which the receiver by committing errors loses the reference phase and never regains it, is not encountered."
"In this paper, we present an analysis of the performance of a model of the Differential Phase Shift Keying (DPSK) system. The method employed consists of deriving the test statistic for choosing between any two phases when an arbitrary phase is transmitted. The characteristic function of the test statistic is derived, and from this, the decision probability, i.e., the probability of choosing between any two phases conditional on the transmitted phase, is expressed as an integral. Curves are drawn of this probability applicable to anym-phase system. An approximate expression is also derived which requires only the well-tabulated error function integral. The probability of a character (phase) error is upper and lower bounded based on the geometric interpretation of the decision probabilities. For a specified phase coding, we also relate the probability of a binary digit error to the decision probabilities. The exact expression for the probability of a binary digit error in a four-phase system is derived."
"In radio channels both time-selective and frequencyselective fading effects distort the transmitted signal. The present paper determines the effect of time and frequency selective fading upon the binary error probabilities of incoherent matched filter receivers employing postdetection diversity combining. General analytical results are specialized to the case of phase-continuous FSK and a Gaussian distribution of scattered power vs delay and Doppler shift. For this case families of curves of error probability are presented as a function ofSNRand data rate with the spread factor and order of diversity as family parameters. It is shown that an optimum data rate exists at which the binary error probability is minimized. For a wide range of cases of interest this optimum data rate is approximately two to four times the geometric mean of the fading bandwidth and correlation bandwidth of the channel. In the frequency division multiplex of a number of binary data streams on an SSB carrier, the selection of the above optimum data rate for each stream will result in a minimum over-all binary error probability for a specified bandwidth occupancy of the multiplex group."
"This communication extends some earlier results [ibid., vol CS-10, pp. 425-435, December, 1962], on the performance of inhibited error-correction decoders. This extension was made necessary by the fact that an important new type of an inhibited error-control decoder has recently become available. The characteristic feature of these new error-control decoders is the correction of a class of errors which can be adjusted (in real time if desired) to include alternative specified patterns of either random, burst, or both random and burst errors together with detection of a corresponding class of uncorrectable errors, such that either the correction operation or the decoder output can be inhibited when doubtful. Because of this special characteristic, these decoders are called \"detecting random-burst\" (DRB) decoder"
"A solution to the problem of increasing the bandwidth of a VLF antenna without decreasing the efficiency is to automatically tune the antenna to the transmitter frequency. Automatic tuning is achieved by means of two nonlinear inductors connected in series with the antenna tuning coil. The average inductance of these inductors are made to vary in accordance with an error signal derived from the phase difference between the antenna current and transmitter voltage such that this phase difference is minimum. This feedback system automatically resonates the antenna to the transmitter frequency. A small-signal transient analysis shows that the bandwidth of this feedback system is limited to\\omega_{a}/4where ωais the bandwidth of the power amplifier that drives the nonlinear inductors."
"A multichannel airborne communications system which provides 15 voice frequency channels on a single RF carrier between airborne terminals via radio relay aircraft has been developed, produced and is now operating. In this system, UHF radios, frequency division multiplexer sets, and cordless switchboards are used to obtain transcontinental, telephone-type communications."
"The received signal is assumed to consist of a fading replica of the original signal plus Gaussian noise. An adaptable fading model is constructed as follows. First, a certain short-term fading distribution (Rayleigh, singular or Rice) is assumed. Then the mean power of this short-term distribution is allowed to possess a long-term variation. The statistics of this variation are assumed to be describable by some gamma distribution. This suffices to derive the binary element error probabilities for a number of receiver types. Particular emphasis is placed on the noncoherent FSK. The performance of more significant ideal receivers is displayed in analytical and graphical forms. Let us select a fixed value of signal-to-noise ratio, possibly a large number. It is shown that the choice of a single parameter suffices to give any error probability up to the extreme value of one half. Such a channel, therefore, can be arbitrarily bad, no matter what the signal-to-noise ratio. It is conjectured that the effects of this peculiar fading, possibly more than the non-Gaussian character of atmospheric noise, may be chiefly responsible for intolerable error rates on fading high frequency radio circuits. For the purpose of utility, it should be noted that the nonfading shortterm model is mathematically most tractable."
"The performance of digital signals may be significantly affected by the presence of plasmas in the propagation path. The purpose of this paper is to analyze the effects of a plasma medium on pulsedRFwaves and to assess the resultant degradation in communication performance. It is shown that pulse signals traveling through a dispersive medium are distorted both in time and space due to the frequency dependence of the medium's constitutive parameters. Distortion causes successive pulses to smear onto each other giving rise to intersymbol interference in the case of digital signals."
"The well-known difficulties of HF in polar regions have spurred studies on means of improving arctic communications. The studies have proceeded in two directions: 1) optimum circuit design, irrespective of frequency and 2) means of improving HF circuits. For long-haul circuits, the former study indicated that serious consideration should be given to submarine cable between Europe and North America via the Arctic Ocean. The latter study concludes that a grid of closed-loop, oblique-incidence, sweepfrequency sounders together with rapid switching techniques has potential."
"Recent technological developments in HF radio have increased its reliability and accuracy to a point where it rivals other media for long-distance data transmission. Economic considerations should justify growth in the application of HF circuits despite the development of new methods for transmission of intelligence."
"This paper considers the performance of a class of digital communication systems wherein a uniformly distributed stationary process from an analog source is sampled and quantized and transmitted by means of a generalized form of pulse-code modulation (PCM). It is shown that output signal-to-noise ratios may be obtained which increase exponentially as a function of the channel signal-to-noise ratio in the bandwidth of the source. Lower bounds on the maximum exponent for an optimized system are obtained for conventional PCM, for coded PCM with no coding delay and for coded PCM with arbitrarily large delay. Improved performance is obtained at the cost of considerable expansion of the modulated bandwidth over the source bandwidth. Expressions for the bandwidth expansion for these systems are also obtained. Mention is made of the similarity of these exact results for digital systems to recent approximate results for analog modulation systems."
"A recent approach to the problem of digital communication over fading transmission paths is the development of the frequency differential system. This method employs binary phase reversal keying of a sinusoid together with the simultaneous transmission of an additional unmodulated sinusoid at a closely spaced neighboring frequency. The additional steady tone is used to establish reference models at the receiver for the correlation detection of the modulated signal. This paper examines the performance of the frequency differential system in the presence of noise and fading wherein the model for the fading signal path assumes Gaussian statistics for the received signals and a certain proportionality among the auto- and cross-correlation functions of the modulated and unmodulated signals as they appear at the receiver. Particular emphasis is placed on the asymptotic error probability which is approached as received signal strength is indefinitely increased. An important part of the paper is the derivation of a conceptually \"optimum\" receiver (in the maximum likelihood sense) for the reception of the frequency differential binary signals. This optimum receiver is shown to be free of the \"bottoming\" or asymptotic error behavior at high signal-to-noise ratios. In addition, a procedure is outlined for the best diversity operation of the elementary binary channels using minimum error as the criterion. A number of numerical examples are presented for representative fading and noise conditions which give quantitative descriptions of the elementary channel performance in noise alone, noise and fading, and dual diversity with noise and fading. Finally the performance of a truncated form of the optimum receiver is similarly described quantitatively in the presence of noise and fading."
"Time varying multipath channels produce a form of fading known as frequency selective fading. The presence of frequency selective fading on the transmission channel causes intermodulation distortion to appear at the base-band output of frequency modulation systems. In addition this frequency selective fading causes phase and amplitude fluctuations to appear on demodulated subcarriers. This paper derives for the first time probability density functions and distribution functions for intermodulation distortion and subcarrier phase fluctuations as a function of the delay power density spectrum of the channel. The derivations involve the use of a canonical channel model called the power series model which is particularly useful when the transmitted signal bandwidth is less than the correlation bandwidth of the channel. Another novel feature of the analysis is the inclusion of the effects of diversity combining."
"Intermodulation distortion measurements were made on traveling-wave tube amplifiers to determine the suitability of this tube type for use in single-sideband (SSB) frequency division multiplex transmitters. It was found that coupled cavity tubes exhibit better intermodulation distortion properties (by a factor of 5 or 6 db) than helix tubes. By employing a direct narrow-band feedback loop around a helix TWT, intermodulation distortion can be reduced by the amount of available loop gain. Both third-order distortion and noise-power ratio NPR measurements were made as a function of TWT output power. By using feedback techniques, it appears that a TWT ground transmitter could be made with sufficiently low distortion to satisfy CCIR requirements in the overall ground-spacecraft system without the use of compandors."
"Phase reversal keying (PRK) with coherent detection is becoming increasingly popular for use in binary data communication systems. Coherent detection of double sideband-suppressed carrier signals requires precautions to avoid inadvertent reinsertion of the local carrier 180° out of phase with the suppressed carrier, as this would convert every demodulated 1 to a 0 and vice versa. Some of the previous solutions to this 1-0 ambiguity problem are reviewed and a new solution based on properties of error correcting codes is outlined briefly. It is shown that the performance penalty imposed by the coding solution is negligible. Performance curves are presented to illustrate the efficiency of the scheme."
"Error data from about 350 hours of 1200-baud data transmission tests are used to evaluate cyclic error detection codes. For polynomials of low degree (<7), the ratio of undetected erroneous messages to total erroneous messages is inversely proportional to the period of the coding polynomial. In a commercial synchronous operation, the typical optimum block length (>4,000 digits) is such that a Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem polynomial requires an excessive number of check digits when its period exceeds the block length. In this case, codes aimed at burst detection are considered superior. A figure of merit is defined and used as one of the criteria for polynomial selection. This figure is obtained, on the basis of these tests, for primitive, LRC, multiplex, fire, and other polynomials. For a typical error detection and retransmission system, transmission efficiency, turn-around time, and number of check digits are related to the data obtained from the tests."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Advances in technology are causing many technical disciplines to merge. This is also true of optics and electronics which today often meet in the same system. The present paper is meant to serve as an introduction to analyzing classical optical components in communications and data processing systems and also as a practical aid in applying these techniques by collecting the most important data required and filling some of the gaps."
"The author describes how to derive the average cross-correlation as ⩾ [-1/(n-1)] (average signal energy), where the averaging is over the ensemble of signals. In the important special case in which all signals have the same energy E and all the cross-correlations are made equal to R, this result reduces to the constraint R ⩾ -[E/(n-1)]."
"A new method of coding complex signals based on 3-unit (+1,0,-1) quantization of their slopes, similar to the equalslope approximation used in network synthesis, and the resultant modulation schemes have been investigated. Using some compression and equalization, the optimum SNR for sinusoidal signals is found to be 25-34 db for the PRF of 20-60 kc. When feedback is used from a local receiver to the input, the SNR is improved by 10-12 db and the dynamic range is about 25 db with acceptable SNR. With complex signals, the SNR deteriorates by about 8 db, but for narrow-band signals the quality is good even without feedback. The over-all characteristics of the systems are better than those of\\Delta-Mand\\Delta-\\Sigmamodulation."
"A mathematical model which utilizes queuing theory is devised for estimating the storage requirements of a message switching computer. Since the storage needed for a message is proportional to the message length, the familiar derivation of a queue distribution in terms of the number of messages is not applicable. Instead the composite queue, resulting from a number of sending lines, is developed in terms of fixed size units. This is normally distributed with mean and variance given as functions of the load factors of the sending lines. Occurrences of machine failures due to insufficient storage capacity are then shown, on certain assumptions, to be exponentially distributed. The method involves bold simplifications at a number of points with resulting errors which are moderate and in the direction of safety. The application to concrete problems is illustrated."
"When two or more frequency modulated signals are transmitted simultaneously through a nonlinear device, intelligible crosstalk from one signal to another is a potential problem. Such a situation arises in connection with the multicarrier use of satellite transponders. In this paper, intelligible crosstalk arising from transmission vs frequency deviations followed by amplitude-to-phase (AM-PM) conversion is considered. The AM-PM conversion characteristics of the transponder are represented by a single constant coefficient determined through a simple measurement technique. Crosstalk ratios for an arbitraryNcarrier system are derived and experimental verification is presented for the two-carrier case."
"In this paper the properties of the total loss function of exclusive alternate route communication networks, the realizability of the networks, and the existence region of optimal allocation of channels are investigated. A practical procedure for solving this optimization problem is suggested. This principle is followed by illustrative examples showing the practical procedures and the advantage of alternate route method (even exclusive) as compared with direct route method."
"It appears not to have been widely recognized that intermodulation distortion of a SSB-AM signal will be generated by AM-PM conversion effects present in amplifiers (such as traveling wave tubes), as well as by output-input nonlinearity. When the SSB-AM signal is carrying multichannel telephony this can be an important source of distortion. In the present paper, a formula is developed relating intermodulation distortion to AM-PM conversion level. The theory is also applied to two-tone testing, in order to allow comparison with experiment. The experimental results are found to be in satisfactory agreement with theoretical predictions."
"The peculiar requirements of a military communications satellite system as distinguished from a commercial one are examined. The effects on the system of requiring the system to operate with transportable ground stations, to be jam resistant, and to degrade gracefully are discussed. The choice of orbit inclination and altitude along with the number of satellites is shown to be a function of booster payload capability, geometric coverage, and the communications power budget. The effect of altitude on Anti-Jamming is also considered. It is shown that the choice of a communications satellite system is critically dependent on the reliability of the booster mission, the possibility of multiple launching, and the mean time-to-failure of the satellite. A booster mission for a medium-altitude system is shown in detail, as is the injection and random dispersion of satellites into a common orbit. Typical communications link calculations are shown to demonstrate the effects of key parameters on performance. A short discussion of the dependence of performance to weather, especially for very low temperature receivers, is given. The growth of satellites from a spin to gravity gradient stabilization without serious changes in either dispenser or spacecraft is described. The implications of this growth to system performance are outlined. The paper is in general terms without reference to specific spacecraft or booster data or other information that is classified."
"The ferrite limiter is a device which has the property of independently limiting two or more RF carriers if they are spaced by several megacycles from each other. This property may have utility in communication satellites as a multiple access tool or for minimizing the effects of jamming signals. The introductory section describes the device, its limiting action, and mode of operation in a commercial or military communications satellite. The body of the paper summarizes the measurements taken to determine the communications performance of the device. Specifically, measurements covering the steady state and dynamic bandwidth, the limiting action for one and two FM carriers, the phase linearity, and the crosstalk between two FM carriers are presented. The measured performance of the device was in reasonable agreement with performance predicted from a simplified analytic model. Measurements found the device to be essentially distortionless for a single wideband FM signal. With two carriers present, the limiting factor of performance was found to be coherent crosstalk."
"A method is presented for the solution of network programming problems through the iterative execution of the same algorithm for each station of the network. At a given station, the algorithm requires data only from adjacent stations of the network. The theory of the method is developed through the use of electrical models of network programming problems. The techniques should be useful for the communications message-routing problem and similar cases in which the disadvantages of relying on a computation performed at a master station must be avoided."
"In this paper, the synchronizing of a coherent receiver with a transmitter is investigated. It is assumed that the receiver knows the exact nature of the arriving signal, except its carrier frequency and arrival time. These, however, are known to be within some bounds. The receiver must then search through this frequency and arrival time space and find the signal in the shortest average time. The receiver is only required to find the carrier frequency within some\\Delta fand the arrival time within some\\Delta \\tau. Thus, the frequency-time space is quantized into a number of cells. It is assumed that the receiver has a detector that tests each cell for some time and then decides that the signal is or is not in that cell. It is first assumed that the receiver knows the exact value of the SNR, and that the signal is equally likely to be in any part of the frequency-time space. For this case, it is found that the receiver should test each cell in the space and if, at the end of the complete scan, the signal is not found, the same test should be repeated over and over again until the signal is found. It is then assumed that the SNR is not known. If an a priori probability density of the SNR is given, an optimum synchronizing procedure may in principle be obtained, but in general it is difficult to obtain. If however, no a priori probability density of the SNR is given, then a synchronizing method is found that is approximately two times as long as the synchronizing method for the SNR known exactly. Thus, the penalty for no information about the SNR is approximately a factor of two in time."
"In digital communication systems using binary phase modulation and differentially coherent detectors, it seems reasonable to suspect that errors tend to occur in pairs. The intuitive arguments are plausible, since these receivers obtain their reference from past bits. To put these arguments on a firmer ground, an analysis of this phenomenon was undertaken. It is shown that when the cause of errors is additive Gaussian noise the ratio of double-errors to single errors is less than 25 per cent when the SNR is larger than 5db. As a matter of fact, this ratio approaches zero as the SNR increases without bound. This analytical result was verified experimentally using a practical data set. The system was also tested using isolated impulses as the disturbance instead of Gaussian noise. For this disturbance most errors occurred in isolated pairs."
"Upon the advent of the space age, we find these TRANSACTIONS along with its sponsoring Group being reborn into a broader and brighter future. It is with no feeling of regret, but with one of great elation, that the Guest Editor now reports the demise of the IEEE Transactions on Communications Systems and the birth, in the next issue, of the IEEE Transactions on Communications Technology."
"By the use of the proper combination of angle modulation and amplitude modulation, it is possible to generate a wave which may be detected without distortion on a conventional FM detector, but which has all its energy concentrated on one side of the carrier. A (SSB-FM) transmitter has been constructed by implementing each part of the mathematical equation for this wave. The signal generated by this transmitter was found to have approximately two thirds of the bandwidth of a conventional FM signal with the same deviation index. The amplitude modulator is required to have response to dc, and a considerable increase in transmitted power is necessary during modulation."
"Being quite narrow, the bandwidth of low-frequency transmitting antennas is often insufficient for modern communication requirements. Some physical reconstruction of the existing antenna, or damping of the output circuit may be used for broadbanding. In this paper, a method of synthesis for broadbanding coupling networks is shown, together with curves relating the Chebyshev and Butterworth types of responses to the network. An illustrative example is given for use with a solid-state transmitter with a very low output impedance."
"To the nlembers of the IEEE Communication Technology Group we pledge our cooperation in making the pages of this technical journal available for the dissemination of worthy and well-phrased ideas, the sharing of new insight at the frontiers of knowledge, and the acknowledgment of accomplishnlents for the benefit of mankind in the area of communication technology."
"Pseudorandom scanning has been ingenuously used by S. Deutsch [\"Narrow-band TV uses pseudorandom scan,\" Electronics, vol. 35, pp. 49-51, April 27 1962] to reduce television frame rate and hence bandwidth. In this communication we shall consider the use of pseudorandom scanning in transmitting still (rather than motion) pictures. We assume thathe picture is transmitted through a onedimensional channel. Pseudorandom scanning is one way of obtaining a onedimensional function from the twodimensional picture. Another way, which is often used in practice at the present, is sequential scanning, in which the picture is scanned along horizontal lines sequentially from top to bottom. We shall compare the effects of these two scanning methods on the received pictures for certain channels."
"The impulse-noise cancelling device recently described by W.L. Black [IEEE Trans on Comm. Systems, vol. CS-11, p. 506; December, 1963] has in principle two noteworthy properties that he did not mention. First, the canceller does not fail completely when two noise pulses overlap in time, since the residual d.isturbance, if the two pulse responses are very different in magnitude, is ideally of the order of magnitude of the smaller pulse response. Second, complete cancellation requires that the two auxiliary channels be clear channels free of interference. If interference is present, there i13 a residuum, after cancellation, of the order of magnitude of the interference, and if the interference is of the order of magnitude of the desired signal in the signal channel, the canceller at best is not very much better than a simple (reliable) noise limiter. Proof of these properties follows."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In recent years there have been numerous studies of reception or communications systems for the demodulation of signals which are received with additive gaussian noise. Many of these studies have been based on the work of Youla. In FM modulation the signal is subjected to linear filtering (pre-emphasis) prior to modulation and it is not immediately apparent how to apply the work of Youla directly. Linear filtering prior to modulation is also used in many other situations which occur in practice (for example, SSB AM can be produced by a combination of linear operations on the signal), and it is therefore pertinent to extend Youla′s work to this case. The purpose of this communication is to point out that Youla′s work can be extended in a straightforward way to cover modulation schemes in which filtering prior to modulation is employed. The results have been known for some time but apparently are not widely available."
"A synchronization system for use with noisy digital signals and a theoretical analysis of its operation is given. The system uses bit-by-bit correlation of the random bit stream input to determine synchronization error. The contention is that any periodically varying signal may be correlated period-by-period to find relative period synchronization. No knowledge of the information content of the signal is required. As conceived, this system is applicable to any random function which has periodicity. Since it uses correlation, it will enable synchronization in relatively low signal-to-noise ratio systems. The paper is a comparative analysis of periodic crosscorrelation detection vs. periodic integration of a diphase (Manchester) coded signal of fixed period and random digits."
"The transversal or time domain filter provides one approach to equalization of digital data transmission systems. Automating such an approach depends on finding a systematic method of setting the parameters (i.e., the multipliers) of the filter. In this paper a heuristic theory of the equalization obtainable by transversal filters is described. Based on this theory, a steepest-ascent hill-climbing algorithm is derived. Numerical results obtained using the algorithm are given for various transmission facilities, along with results obtained using a simplified nonoptimum but noniterative scheme. The theory also indicates that an additional improvement in performance is obtainable if a variable phase intercept is available. Thus a second element is introduced into the overall equalizer to produce a controllable but constant phase shift across the transmission band. Finally, the effect of inaccurate tap spacing is considered, and shown to produce generally small errors, and the problems in applying the results to multilevel vestigial sideband are discussed."
"In some control problems where human decision constitutes part of a feedback loop and the decision maker is remote from the plants, the corrective error signals are transmitted in the form of messages via a single communication link. Clearly, a queue of messages may be formed and the problem arises as to how rapidly the system outputs can be corrected. Consider the case of a number of independent plants so remotely controlled. Each of the n inputs constitutes a channel. An automatic sorting mechanism which connects the communication link to the inputs of the plants receives and channels the messages. This paper considers two cases: 1) The sorting mechanism examines only the first message in line, causing all messages behind to wait if the specific channel required by the first message is busy, even if another message in line is addressed to an idle channel. By \"busy\" it is meant that the output of the specific plant is being corrected as a result of a previous message. This case is novel. 2) The sorting mechanism searches the queue until it finds a message addressed to a channel that is presently idle. Under the assumptions of exponentially distributed service time, negligible sorting time, and Poisson distributed output errors, this paper uses a generating function approach and presents the queue size and waiting time distributions to provide statistical information concerning the time lag in the feedback loop."
"In recent years there have been numerous studies of reception or communications systems for the demodulation of signals which are received with additive gaussian noise. Many of these studies have been based on the work of D.C. Youla [\"The use of maximum likelihood in estimating continuously modulated intelligence which has been corrupted by nolse,\" IRE TRANS. ON INFORMATION THEORY, vol. PGIT-3, pp. 90-105, March, 1954]. In frequency modulation (FM) the signal is subjected to linear filtering (pre-emphasis) prior to modulation and it is not immediately apparent how to apply the work of Youla directly. Linear filtering prior to modulation is also used in many other situations which occur in practice (for example, SSB AM can be produced by a combination of linear operations on the signal), and it is therefore pertinent to extend Youla's work to this case. The purpose of this communication is to point out that Youla's work can be extended in a straightforward way to cover modulation schemes in which filtering prior to modulation is employed. The results have been known for some time but apparently are not widely available. We consider the case where one signal is sent over one communication channel. Extensions to more than one signal and more than one channel appear to be straightforward."
"In the design of many digital receiver systems, practical design considerations may dictate the use of envelope detectors and RC integrators. This paper analyzes the improvement which can be gained by the insertion of a nonlinear transformation between the envelope detector and the RC integrator. The characteristic curve of the optimum nonlinear transformation is determined and is found to yield an improvement of approximately 2.5 dB over the range of operating conditions analyzed. The form of the optimum transformation isy=\\frac{K_{0}}{K_{2} + I_{0}\\frac{x}{\\sigma\\sqrt{2_{\\gamma}} + K_{1}where K0and K1are arbitrary constants and K2depends on the input signal-to-noise ratio γ and where σ2is the noise power at the input to the envelope detector. The performance of a suboptimum nonlinear transformation composed of a two-level quantizer (e.g., Schmitt circuit) is also analyzed and is found to yield a 1.5 dB improvement when adjusted to give the best performance. The best performance is achieved over a wide range of operating conditions when the threshold of the two-level quantizer is adjusted so that noise alone would cause a quantizer output of \"one\" 15 per cent of the time and \"zero\" 85 per cent of the time."
"This communication describes a \"Dialed Connection\" teleprinter switching system designed to operate with machines not equipped with a stunt box (device used to provide control functions on late model teleprinters). The answer back code for old model teleprinters was accomplished by generating each code at the switching center. The term \"old model teleprinter\" refers to those machines which will not accommodate a conventional answer back mechanism. The system enables small private networks to automate while retaining existing station equipment."
"The advantages attendant to the use of pre-emphasis and de-emphasis networks in a PCM television system are examined. The optimum pre-emphasis network is obtained by maximizing the ratio of peak-peak signal to rms weighted noise with the coder input constrained to prevent overload. The results show that for a system using a 12-Mc sampling rate the weighted quantizing noise in the video band can be reduced about 3.7 dB, which corresponds to adding half a digit. This particular figure is based on the assumptions that quantizing noise is subjectively equivalent to thermal noise and that we have a reasonable estimate of the video signal spectrum. Networks approximating the optimum pre-emphasis and de-emphasis networks have been constructed and the performance with these networks compared to that without pre-emphasis (and de-emphasis). A visual comparison of the received pictures shows the improvement, particularly in breaking up contours."
"Three methods of analysis of a communication network in which the communication links are assigned finite probabilities of failure are presented. The methods are applied to the computation of the terminal reliabilities for all pairs of nodes. The terminal reliability between a pair of nodes is defined as the probability that there exists at least one path with these nodes as termini. The first method requires the examination of the set of all subgraphs of the graph that represents the network. The second method examines the set of all subgraphs that are not connected and the third is based on the Monte Carlo method."
"The objective in voice communication circuit design is to deliver adequate acoustic power to the listener's ear in the presence of incidental circuit noise and thus permit satisfactory conversation between the talker and listener. The ranges of volumes applied to the circuit and the range received at the listener's ear in general are the same. The average received volume is essentially the average transmitted volume displaced by the net loss of the connecting circuit. The circuits between the talker and listener must carry the maximum volume without serious overloading. The minimum volume talker must be maintained at a high enough volume so that the listener will have an adequate signal-to-noise ratio to carry on a satisfactory conversation. The signal-to-noise for higher volume talkers will be greater by the difference in volume, which means the circuit is better than it needs to be for satisfactory conversation. It is suggested that the volume range be reduced by applying volume regulators to each long distance circuit. In addition, the peak-to-rms ratio of the signal is reduced by applying peak limiting. The average volume transmitted is raised to obtain the same overload expectancy. The increased signal power improves the signal-to-noise ratio. The improvement can be used to increase the signal-to-noise ratios in marginal circuits, or to reduce the cost of providing the service in new installations. It is shown that constant volume regulators applied to the present long haul plant will improve the poorer 10 per cent of the circuits by 15 dB or more."
"Digital data dynamic transmission systems which employ asynchronous time multiplexing are introduced with the experimental equipment of one of the systems. It is possible to attain dynamic matching between information sources even with time-varying parameters and transmission lines, by searching a time slot for each information signal block only when the subscriber has an information signal block ready to be transmitted. For the experimental system, the transmission delay time and the rate of channel busy time are derived by analytical methods and computer simulation under the specific conditions. By adding a priority transmission function to the experimental system, the system becomes capable of handling both on-line traffic and offline traffic. If proper sizes of buffer memories are chosen, it is possible to transmit various informations from various information sources being endurable against overload traffic."
"The combined effects of time delay and the action of a particular type of echo suppressor have been evaluated during a controlled experiment. Users performed a highly structured task designed to approximate real conversation either over a normal, control circuit or over one having 620 ms of delay and fitted with an echo suppressor. Little difference was noted in user reaction to, and acceptance of, the experimental circuit compared with the control circuit."
"For more than 80 years the telecommunications industry has been working to bring the art of transmission and switching to the point where it could provide top quality service to everybody over a big, reliable, basic network, and do it well. This basic goal has been largely achieved, but the job is never complete: customers' sights keep rising; communication is increasingly important to the national economy; the industry itself must continue to grow in order to stay healthy and vigorous. This means constantly improving the basic instruments of communication, providing a great variety of service options, and staying abreast of consumers' changing tastes and purchasing habits. Data communication, electronic switching, Touchtone calling, communications satellites, etc., are helping to achieve these ends. Continued success depends upon the industry's own creative ability and the degree of freedom it is accorded by the governmental agencies which regulate its activities."
"In planning for the first transatlantic telephone cable (1955-56) two systems were considered, the two-cable, flexible repeater, 36-circuit system developed by A. T. & T. and the single cable, rigid repeater, 60-circuit system developed by the British Post Office, primarily for shallow water. The American system, which more readily overcame the problems associated with laying repeaters in armored cable at ocean depths, was used for the main Atlantic crossing; the British system, more economical in its concept, was used between Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. As early as 1951, work on an armorless deep-sea cable with a torsionally balanced strength member at the center had been initiated in the British Post Office and when, in 1957, it was agreed between the British and Canadian Governments to provide a \"high-capacity\" telephone system between the two countries, the new British cable with rigid repeaters was adopted. In 1958 a Commonwealth Communication Conference evolved plans for a \"round-the-World\" cable similar to CANTAT. As soon as CANTAT was completed in 1961 work began on a transpacific cable (COMPAC) between Vancouver and Sydney via Hawaii, Fiji and Auckland; this was opened for service in 1963. The next sections (SEACOM) are now under construction; the Singapore-Jesselton, Hong-Kong links will be completed this year, Queensland-New Guinea, in 1965 and the closing link in 1966."
"At the end of March 1964, the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation (NTT) had 8.6 million telephones (5.5 million subscriber lines) and 15.2 million circuitkilometers of toll trunks. There are still 1.3 million unfilled telephone application's and there is also a strong demand for complete nationwide subscriber dialing. In order to meet these demands, NTT established a series of five-year expansion programs. On the other hand, all telecommunication services in Japan, such as local and long distance telephone, telegraph, data transmission service, etc., are presently showing remarkable improvement in line with salient technological developments of various electrical communications media."
"The new nations of Africa have unique telecommunications problems which result primarily from the recent history of the continent. Currently the paramount needs are for skilled personnel and for adequate long-distance communications. The training of personnel, especially those to fill top-level positions, must be treated as a number-one priority. The traditional step-by-step evolution of long-distance communications cannot be followed; instead, means for accelerated progress to meet the needs of the jet age must be found. The development of communication satellites could be of far greater importance to Africa than to the highly developed areas of the world."
"The distinctive character of each major national telecommunications operating agency in Europe is analyzed followed by a brief survey of the national networks and of their interrelation. The most typical transmission and switching systems are introduced, and a summary of the most recent developments is presented. This rapid survey of telecommunications in Europe shows that the political conditions have been influential in the development of national networks which each have their own individuality. This variety of equipments, systems and methods has been harmonized to a degree by action on the part of Consultative Committees, by contacts between agencies and by liaison between the suppliers. This multiplicity of conditions is in itself a source of valuable experience and supplies a wealth of information for future planning. The trend is towards a greater interchange of knowledge and experience between the entities involved, leading undoubtedly to more uniformity of concepts and practices. This is all the more timely as the European network will progressively operate on a fully automatic basis, subscribers reaching their correspondents by direct dialing for all calls."
"Discusses the Fields of Interest of Committees and defines the Fields of Communications Technical Committees. With the merger of the IEEE Conununications Division and the IEEE Communications Systems Group into the IEEE ComnunicatioTne chnology Group, a new era has begun for communication engineers. Among the problems that them erger drafters had tos olve was the allocation of fields of interest to the Technical Committees within the new Group. Each committee was assigned to a specialized field, which is allowed to expand, contract, divide, or conlbine, as changing conditions warrant. Any statement of the fields is true only for an interval in our dynamic technology. The following statement provides a general view of the present fields of the Communications Committees. It should be understood that some nmtters presented for comtnit,tee action overlap into the jurisdiction of other committees, both withiu and outside of the Group. These are generally handled by joint action. The statement is intended to serve as a guide for those who wish to work with or present material to a committee. A prospective confercnce paper or a manuscript that may be considered for Transactions publication would be typical items."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The purpose of this correspondence is to point out that the performance of a square-law diversity combiner with M branches is the same as that of a majority-count combiner with the same branch SNR and with (2M-1) branches."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The word \"ingenuously\" in the first sentence of the above correspondence (Ibid., vol COM-12, Sep 1964, pp 105-107) should have been \"ingeniously.\""
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"It is convenient to use a 0-dBm sinusoidal test tone to set the deviation of an FM radio transmitter. It is of interest to know the peak frequency deviation produced by the composite talker signal, relative to the deviation assigned to the 0-dBm test tone. This is necessary to design the equipment with the proper RF bandwidth. If the RF bandwidth is too small, the system will be overloaded and distortion will be produced. If the RF bandwidth is too wide the receiver noise level will be increased. This will cause an unnecessary increase to the amount of time below threshold. The Holbrook and Dixon load factors allow for a practical receiver design, the utilization of which is demonstrated by an illustrative problem. In a particular example the 1.0-Mc/s bandwidth is the limiting parameter and this determines the design value of the test tone frequency deviation. In another system the limiting parameter may be a minimum value for the carrier-to-noise ratio or the voice channel SNR. The inter-relationship of the various receiver parameters is demonstrated here, and design procedures can be evolved from it for any specific requirements."
"The transmission path of an electronic switching center utilizing time division multiplexing, its associated contact control circuits, and contact memory are discussed. Line, interhighway, signal injector and highway discharge switches are incorporated in this transmission network. The design of an accurate and flexible transmission measuring device was necessary so that some of the established transmission characteristics could be satisfactorily measured. The transmission characteristics were thus proven to be well within specified limits."
"The theory of the transmission of digital data by frequency-shift methods has recently aroused new interest as a result of the increased requirements for frequency band conservation in telemetering and pulse-code modulation (PCM) applications. Assuming random 8equences of binary FM signals in the form of two equally probable, alternative frequencies for \"mark\" and \"space\" with continuous phase transition, the power density spectrum for a large ratio of carrier frequency to bit rate has been derived in closed mathematical form. As one of the surprising results it has been noted that a peak to peak deviation of about 0.6 to 0.7 times the bit ratlee ads to a particularly efficient crowding of the spectrum near the carrier frequency, resulting in a high efficiency of transmission in terms of occupied bandwidth. For many applications a quantitative expression for the cumulative band occupancy is needed which can be derived by integration of the power density function, and evaluation in terms of percentage of total signal power within given band limits. The following covers the results of auch an integration together with an assessment of the effects of pre- and postmodulation band limitation with linear phase Gaussian response filters. As one of the main conclnsions to be drawn from the calculations presented, it is found that in conventional digital FM transmission 99% of the signal power can be confined within a total bandwidth of 1.1 to 1.2 times the bit rate if the peak to peak deviation is kept below a maximum value between 0.6 and 0.7 times the bit rate, depending on the amount of pre- and postmodulation filtering."
"Digital communication systems utilizing wide-band carriers require a coherent reference for optimal data processing. This reference may be either locally generated or transmitted simultaneously with the data. The latter system completely avoids the synchronization problem of locally generated reference systems but is degraded by the fact that two receivers are required, excess system dimension must be used, and the transmitter power is diluted by having to transmit the reference. This report is a study of a general transmitted reference (TR) system, with the primary objective of finding bounds on these restrictions. It is based upon geometrical considerations using the fact that a transmitted reference system can be described by vectors in, and linear transformations upon, anN-dimensional Euclidean space. In this way it can be shown, for example, that the dimension of the transmitting channel must be greater than that of the space of carrier signals for unique operation. This increase in dimension need be only slight in the noiseless case, but an advantage is gained by increasing the dimension in noisy operation. An equivalent expression for output SNR is obtained in terms of norms of signal vectors and a comparison is made with that of a locally generated reference (LGR) system. It is shown that a TR system always operates with at least a 3-dB poorer SNR than that of an ideal LGR system, with the bound increasing to 6 dB if the transmitter is power limited, and gets progressively worse as the transmitter power to noisepower ratio decreases below 0 dB. Some curves are plotted to show these relationships quantitatively."
"Signaling is simplified by the adoption of a universal numbering plan. Addressing between centers and from subscriber keysets uses the same inband v-f combinations. Supervision on trunks is accomplished with single frequency tones. For subscribers on local metallic lines advantage is taken of the 4-wire phantom for dc loop supervision and battery feed to normal subscriber instruments. Protection against fading or interruption of the trunk transmission path is achieved by a unique interlocking of all addressing and supervisory signals. Simulation is minimized by using a special grouping of v-f combinations and timed single frequencies."
"A new method for the transmission of intelligence by means of a signal having certain correlation properties has been evolved. The theoretical and practical aspects of this concept are presented. An important advantage of these techniques is that for a fixed performance criteria, considerably higher speeds are possible compared to the presently known methods. In addition, the implementation is simple and straightforward. An unusual property of these techniques is the capability of error detection without the introduction of redundancy into the original data. Finally, expressions for spectral distributions and error performance as well as methods for practical implementation, including the errordetection process, are presented."
"The system described here provides centralized twoway transmission measurements on two-way dial trunks and on one-way incoming dial trunks from remote offices to a control office."
"The common control equipment of an electronic switching center is described with reference to a block diagram. The progress of a local call is traced. The additional routines required to handle trunk traffic priority calls and stored address operation is then explained. The implementation of some memory and logic functions is highlighted."
"Two recent papers [by J.J. Bussgang, and M. Leiter, \"Error rate approximations for differential phase-shift keying,\" ibid., vol CS-12, Mar 1964, pp 18-27 and J.G. Proakis, P.R. Drouilhet, Jr., and R. Price, \"Performance of coherent detection systems using decision-directed channel measurement,\" ibid., vol CS-12, Mar 1964, pp 54-63] presented test statistics for an optimum Differential Phase-Shift Keying (DPSK) receiver. In this correspondence the authors show that these test statistics are equivalent."
"A set ofNorthogonal signals is constructed with a modulated carrier takingNpossible phase values, and the whole class of such sets is described with a coding procedure that employs a permutation ofNintegers. These signals are used for communication purposes, and it is shown that there exists a simple matchedfilter detector with a coding and decoding scheme that is unaffected by a phase shift and a Doppler frequency shift on the channel."
"A method is presented for determining long-term reliability curves for received signal levels and combined signal levels due to diversity in a scatter communications link. The incoming signals are assumed to be faded and have a Rayleigh distribution. These reliability calculations may be made for any specific time interval or all hours. The method accounts for various orders of diversity, types of signal combining, nonlinear receiver characteristics below threshold, and median variation of the received signal. A concept and method for determining effective diversity reliability curves is also included. The effective diversity arises from the use of a squelch in a receiver located at threshold for improving SNR's."
"Analytic representations for the a,mplitude distribution of impulsive noise have generally been presented as numerical approximations to experimental data. While this provides a satisfactory solution to design problems, it is of some interest to consider a simplified physical model of the impulsive noise sources affecting narrow-band receivers, and to compare the results witht he empirical models. In proposing the following model, four characteristic assumptions apply to ther eceived noise: 1) The disturbance is of short enough duration so that the receiver. 2) Separate responses do not overlap in time. 3) Response amplitude is defined as the absolute maximum voltage occuring at the measuring point in the receiver during the given complete response. 4) A response is only considered to be an impulse noise response when its amplitudee xceeds a certaint hreshold value. The model seems to satisfy a degree of physical intuition and may thus serve as a support to the experimentally formulated approsirnation models."
"It is the purpose of this note to present a derivation of the signal-suppression threshold of a frequency doubler. The assumed input is a sinusoid in Gaussian noise. The results will not be substantially in error for narrow-band modulated signals."
"In this paper, the conditions a dither signal must meet so that the quantizer noise can be considered independent of the signal are derived for a quantizer having a finite number of levels. An infinite class of dither signals which satisfy these conditions is given. It is seen that the most useful member of this class is one whose probability density function is uniformly distributed over a quantizing interval. It is also shown that a necessary and sufficient condition for the noise n(t) to be independent of the signal x(t) is that a measurable quantity, called the \"D\" factor, be zero."
"Radar, communications, and ranging systems can use pseudonoise modulated carriers. The extraction of information from the carrier requires the synchronization of a pseudonoise waveform at the receiver for correlation detection. For initial synchronization, the receiver must examine all possible time positions of the incoming pseudonoise waveform. In serial search the time difference between the pseudonoise modulation on the carrier and the pseudonoise waveform generated at the receiver is linearly varied. A continuous decision process determines when synchronization has been achieved. With additive white normal noise interference, the probabilities of false alarm and false dismissal during synchronization for coherent and incoherent detection are computed. The results are dependent on carrier power, noise per unit bandwidth, and search rate."
"This paper presents an analysis of the throughput rate R and undetected block error rate ρ for each of three basic types of retransmission logics: 1) send and wait for confirmation, 2) send continuously repeating each individual unconfirmed message, and 3) send continuously repeating each unconfirmed message together with those which followed it. Formulas for R and ρ were obtained in terms of the probability of detected block error and the probability of misinterpreted confirmation or retransmission request. Several options for interpreting garbled service information were considered and the corresponding formulas for R and ρ were obtained. Block diagrams are presented which show the possible sequences of events and their probabilities for each type of logic. Analysis of the third logic required models based on seven-state and ten-state Markov processes. Tractable formulas were not obtainable in closed form but only as solutions to matrix equations. Approximate formulas for R and ρ were derived for this case. The results of this paper are used in a companion paper to compare the performance of forward error correcting codes and retransmission systems under various channel conditions."
"The performance capabilities of several retransmission systems are compared with each other and with conventional errorcorrecting codes in hypothetical channels exhibiting independent or dependent errors. These evaluations are based on the analysis in the companion paper which admits errors in the feedback channel and undetectable errors in either channel. The basic problem of deciding whether to use retransmission or forward error-correction for a particular application is investigated. The areas of relative superiority based on throughput rate R and uncorrected error rate ρ for each type of error control are determined for a wide range of codes and channels. It is shown that in almost all burst error cases and in independent error channels with low error probabilities, retransmission sytsems are superior to forward error-correcting systems in both throughput rate R and undetected error rate ρ. In independent error channels with high error rates forward error correction shows substantial improvement over retransmission provided that extremely high reliability is not required. It is shown that in designing a retransmission logic, the decision to interpret garbled messages bearing service information as retransmission requests lowers the throughput rate slightly but improves the reliability considerably. The problem of selecting one of the basic retransmission logics for a particular application is also considered. The systems characteristics of the logics were seen to be the prime consideration in many cases since the differences in R and ρ are generally not substantial."
"The problem of the evaluation of RF spectra of waves frequency or phase modulated by random noise is of great importance in the design of trunk radio systems. The system designer is particularly interested in the tail region, from the point of view both of bandwidth requirements and of interference considerations. As a consequence, a considerable body of work has been published, and it is disheartening to the commentor to find that Dr. Abramson, in his above-named contribution [ibid., vol CS-11, Dec 1963, pi3 407-414], ignores virtually all the existing detailed treatments. Especially is this so in so far as one of the papers that might have been cited appeared in the same journal as did his own paper, not so very long ago. Spectrum evaluation in practical cases is liable to run into difficnlties, and Dr. Abramson's paper gives, perhaps, a misleading impression as to the universal application of his approach."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A sufficient condition for stability of a class of sampled-data feedback systems containing a memory-less, nonlinear gain element is obtained. The new stability theorem for the class of systems discussed requires that the following relationship be satisfied on the unit circle:\\Re G^{\\ast}(z)[1 + q(z - 1)] + \\frac{1}{K} - \\frac{K'|q|}{2} | (z - 1)G^{\\ast}(z)|^{2} \\leq 0. In this papers the stability criterion embodied in this theorem can be readily obtained from the frequency response of the linear plant. This method is essentially similar to Popov's method applied to the study of nonlinear continuous systems. Furthermore, Tsypkin's resuits for the discrete case are obtained as a special case whenq=0. Several examples are discussed, and the results are compared with Lyapunov's quadratic and quadratic plus integral forms as well as with other methods. For these examples, the results obtained from the new theorem yield less conservative values of gain than Lyapunov's method. Furthermore, for certain linear plants the new theorem also yields the necessary and sufficient conditions."
"Theorems are developed for difference equations analogous to those developed by Zubov for differential equations. These theorems show that it is possible to construct Liapunov functions for a certain class of sampled data control systems that will give the entire domain of asymptotic stability. They also give necessary and sufficient conditions for asymptotic stability in the large for this class of control systems. In addition to giving stability information, the Liapunov function obtained from the construction procedure gives information about the performance of the system since all points having a certain value of\\upsiloncorrespond to a constant value of\\prod \\min{i=n}\\max{\\infty} (1 + \\phi(x(i)))where φ is a positive definite quadratic form chosen to measure the performance of the system. Methods of solving for the Liapunov function are considered. An approximate technique which is particularly applicable to digital computer solution is considered in detail. Two other methods involving infinite products and infinite series are also considered."
"An analytic study was conducted to develop a quantitative expression for the errors due to quantization (round-off) in digital control systems. An upper bound on the error in the output that was caused by quantization became available for two different sampling rates by describing a typical digital control system in terms of its state variables. The amount of the error introduced in the output by any one quantization operation was found to depend upon the sampling rate, system time constants, and the form of the controller chosen for system compensation. For a third-order plant, preceded by a zero-order hold circuit and compensated by a controller that provided a response dominated by a closed-loop pole pair with a damping ratio of 0.7, the error due to quantization was determined to be approximately ten times the value of the quantizing level. The error was reduced to six times the quantizing level by increasing the sampling rate by a factor of 2, to 20 per second. The results of the study furnished a convenient procedure for analyzing quantization in a digital control system and led to a specification on the precision required in the digital controller and the necessary encoding equipment."
"In this paper a rigid missile (booster) guidance and control system is synthesized by means of an advanced control optimization technique called the Parametric Expansion Method. It was developed by Dr. Charles W. Merriam III of the General Electric Research Laboratory, Schenectady, N. Y. The results obtained are evaluated in a digital simulation of the missile dynamics and compared with those obtained using a similar system which was synthesized by the more conventional means of root locus."
"This paper considers the problem of interplanetary guidance in the presence of random injection and measurement errors from the point of view of minimizing the expected value of the square of the control effort to meet a prescribed terminal accuracy. It is shown that the optimal control signal is a linear function of only those components of the predicted miss whose terminal covariance is specified. A one dimensional model which approximates the terminal phase of an interplanetary trip is considered in detail. Computer results are given showing the comparison of this solution with the minimum effort theory developed recently by Breakwell and Striebel [1] on the requirement for the expected amount of velocity corrections. An analytical expression is given which shows that the present design is about 13 per cent more costly in so far as the terminal portion of the expected velocity requirement is concerned."
"This paper presents a linear-adaptive design technique intended for the very severe parameter variation problems encountered in lifting re-entry vehicles and in flight control of modern aircraft. The technique is illustrated by means of a detailed application to the pitch axis stability augmentation system of the X-15. The problem is to obtain satisfactory vehicle response to command inputs and disturbances, despite the extremely large variations in vehicle parameters, which are encountered when Mach number varies from 6.0 to 0.2 and altitude varies from 160,000 ft to ground level. The given time domain specifications are translated into approximately equivalent frequency response restrictions, enabling the design details to be executed in the frequency domain. This results in the maximum economy in the gain and bandwidth of the system loop transmission. The design is verified by finding the time responses for some of the extreme conditions. The practicality of the design is discussed in terms of the gain and bandwidth demands on the compensating networks, the higher order airframe dynamics and the effects of any overdesign on the system saturation tendencies."
"This paper seeks to consolidate in one place several diverse articles and contributions, with the objective of emphasizing the coming importance of step motors in the field of control engineering. Main topics include the theory of operation of the synchronous inductor motor, its performance characteristics, an improvement in the derivation of the transfer function for a generalized step motor, and a review of the current status of step motors."
"A coordinate transformation in the incremental phase plane is introduced which facilitates the design of sampled-data control systems in which there is a simple non-linearity. Use of these coordinates permits the slope of a boundary specified by the nonlinearity to be directly related to a simple gain term in the transformed system. A realizable form of compensation is shown to evolve in terms of the system variables. By using the transformed coordinates, it is possible to identify intersample oscillations which are undetectable in the original coordinate system. Examples are presented to illustrate the method."
"The problem of estimating state variables and parameters is considered for discrete-time systems in the presence of random disturbances and measurement noise. The solution of the linear problem is given and an approximation technique is developed for nonlinear systems. A dynamic programming formulation of the estimation problem is also developed."
"This paper discusses the optimum control of distributed parameter systems with time delays which are governed by a set of partial differential-difference equations. The technique of dynamic programming is used to derive the functional equations associated with optimization. Specific results are derived for linear systems with quadratic performance index. Also, an explicit condition for the complete null controllability of linear systems is given. The paper concludes with a discussion on the approximate solutions for the minimum energy control of a simple linear parabolic system with a time delay."
"An iterative procedure is derived for computing time controls for regulator systems described by vector differential equations of the form\\dot{x}=Ax+buwhereAandbare constant|u| \\leq 1. The iterative computational procedure is based on the parameterization of the minimal time control in terms of the initial conditions of the system's adjoint differential equation. A function is derived relating the initial state of the system to the adjoint system's initial conditions and to the time required by the optimal control to drive that state to zero. Mapping properties of this function, on which the control computation depends, are discussed. To demonstrate the results of this computational procedure, an example is included in which a time-optimal control for a fourth order system with two pairs of complex roots is computed."
"A class of self-optimizing systems which continually alter their parameters to reduce a mean-square performance criterion is described. The change in each parameter is determined from an error gradient in parameter space computed by cross-correlation methods which are independent of signal spectra and require no test signal or parameter perturbation. Applications of this technique to both open-loop and closed-loop systems are included and it is shown that a combination of such self-optimizing systems is a possible solution to the adaptive control problem. Computer simulation results are included to demonstrate the practicality of the proposed systems."
"A solution to the control synthesis problem is presented for plants with constrained-control inputs and with state equations which may have variable coefficients, but are linear in the state variables and control inputs. The control is dual mode with a classical linear controller, designed to be insensitive to plant variations, used for small signals. Techniques are presented for reducing these plants to dominant two-state channels. Auxiliary controllers are applied to each channel, which are adaptive to the coupling between channels, as well as the variable plant parameters, in obtaining a minimal-time response when the signals are large. The instrumentation for the required adaptive bang-bang controllers is developed."
"The paper investigates the stability of feedback systems with one nonlinear element whose input-output characteristic is contained within a sector of the input-output plane. The results are applicable to any nonlinearity within a given sector and the conditions for global asymptotic stability are necessary if the exact analytic description of the nonlinearity is not available. The conditions for asymptotic stability are related to the Routh-Hurwitz and Nyquist stability criteria for linear systems."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An experimental single-axis, time-optimal attitude control computer was designed and built using digital differential analyzer (DDA) techniques. A relatively simple digital implementation of the control functions was obtained while holding the computational errors within predetermined limits. To evaluate the capabilities, limitations and accuracy attainable in digital implementarion of such a system, tests were conducted in which an analog computer was used to simulate the dynamics of the controlled vehicle. It was shown that the digital control system performed its function properly, providing a true time-optimal control, and that the computation errors were kept below the design limit. The primary concern of this paper is to show how basic DDA techniques can be used to implement the control functions required in attitude control of a space vehicle and to present the system characteristics resulting from such a design approach. Techniques used for reducing DDA computational errors are also given consideration. It will be seen that the truncation errors can be minimized and limited to a zero-averaged error to prevent hysteresis or drift effects. Unlike truncation errors, round-off errors cannot be completely eliminated and can cause localized irreversibility of computations (hysteresis effects). In spite of this, harmful drifts or accumulated errors are not produced because of the closed-cycle nature of the control problem as viewed in the error phase plane."
"A study is made of the problem of absolute stability or \"Lur'e problem\" in the case of a sampled-data control system containing one integrator in the loop. By the second method of Liapunov, a frequency-domain inequality is obtained which is shown to be a sufficient condition for the absolute stability of the class of systems under investigation. This inequality improves inequalities of similar type which have been obtained by means of the Popov approach."
"Linear control processes are considered under the following optimization criteria: 1) minimization of the terminal error and 2) minimization of the required time (T) to reach a desirable state. The constraint on the control vector(u(t))is considered to be\\int\\liminf{t_{j}} \\limsup{t_{j+1}} u'(t)Qu(t)dt \\leq c_{j} j = 1, 2, ... mwhereQis a positive definite matrix, andt_{j} < t <t_{j+1}represents any given interval contained in the interval0<t<T, and cjcan be considered as the available energy during that interval. A condition of optimality has been obtained which can be used analytically. Furthermore, a numerical procedure is developed for determination of the optimum control vector."
"A linear system with a cost function that is quadratic in the control and terminal position error is given. The initial state is unknown and noise-corrupted observations are taken. Due to the cost of taking the observations, they are limited to a given number. Using the tools of optimum stochastic control theory, the optimum timing of the available observations is determined (minimizing the expected value of the loss function). For the cases considered, the locations can be determined a priori, and do not depend on the values of previous observations. Graphs of the optimum observation locations for several scalar cases are given. Graphs of the true cost, as a function of the locations of the observations, are also given for several scalar cases. The change in cost for small variations from the optimum location is usually not significant."
"The objectives of this paper are to give a self-contained presentation of the subject of \"controllability\" and \"observability\" (concepts due to Kalman) developed in a simple yet general and rigorous way; to introduce these concepts in terms of the output as well as in terms of the state; and to point out and illustrate some of the subtleties which exist in the time-varying case."
"A frequency domain criterion is formulated to prove global asymptotic stability of feedback control system with more than one nonlinear element. The input-output characteristics of the nonlinearities are confined to sectors of the input-output planes. Sufficient conditions for global asymptotic stability are derived in terms of a number of inequalities equal to the number of nonlinear elements."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problem of identifying the plant dynamics is an important part of adaptive control. This paper deals with the application of the quasi-linearization method to identify the differential equation governing the dynamical behavior of a linear or a nonlinear stationary plant. Examples are included to illustrate the method."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A construction method is introduced by which one can obtain the positive feedback system closed-loop poles directly from the corresponding negative feedback system closed-loop poles for certain second- and third-order cases. Corresponding systems are defined as systems which differ from each other only in the feedback polarity. Restrictions which must be imposed on the systems are summarized in Conclusions."
"Statistical estimation theory is applied to derive effective techniques for measurement of the pulse transfer function of a linear system from normal operating records obscured by additive noise. It is shown that the problem is equivalent to that of fitting a hyperplane to a set of observed points with random errors in certain coordinates. A method of Koopmans is applied to obtain generalized least squares estimates which are also maximum likelihood estimates when the noise is white and Gaussian. The estimates of the coefficients are obtained as the components of the eigenvector corresponding to the smallest eigenvalue of a matrix equation involving the sample auto- and cross-correlation functions of the input and output records and the covariance matrix of the corresponding noise components. Expressions for the sampling variances and biases are given. The properties of the simpler standard least squares estimates are also considered. The appropriate modifications for nonwhite noise are described."
"The subject of this paper is the optimal control of linear plants whose coefficients and whose reference signals are random processes. The discrete-time as well as the continuous-time problems are treated and some fairly deep-seated distinctions between the two are pointed out. Special emphasis is placed on control over long periods of time. A set of assumptions is laid down under which the transition to infinitely long periods of operation is tractable. It is shown that a discrete-time plant is controllable, in the sense that the rate of the mean-squared error remains finite, only when certain necessary and sufficient conditions are fulfilled by the statistics of the plant parameters."
"Worst case error analysis using Pontryagin's Maximum Principle is considered for a dynamical system described by a set of differential equations with a separable forcing function. The forcing function is assumed unknown except for bounds on its magnitude. The problem is to determine the maximum value of a given performance criterion. For a wide class of systems the worst forcing term is shown to be \"bang-bang.\" An iterative machine computational algorithm based on the Maximum Principle equations is suggested and analyzed."
"The paper presents a technique of linearization of a memory-type nonlinearity with a Gaussian input by applying the concept of \"complex describing function.\" The quasi-linearized transfer function for the nonlinearity with the statistical input is termed \"complex equivalent gain.\" The magnitude of the complex equivalent gain is defined as the ratio of the rms value of the output correlated component to the rms value of the input of the nonlinearity while the phase is assumed to be frequency independent. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the complex describing function for a memory-type nonlinearity is a limiting case of complex equivalent gain where the input to the nonlinearity is a simple sine wave. Finally, a closed-loop control system incorporating a memory-type nonlinearity and impressed by a Gaussian input is analyzed by using the proposed quasi-linearization technique. The results obtained from an analog computer study of the system which agree closely with the results of analysis are also presented."
"When the signal component of the input to a linear unity feedback sampled-data system is additively contaminated by a relatively wide-band noise process, it has been shown previously that the mean-square values of the true and apparent error quantities are minimized by essentially the same value of loop gain. This paper presents an investigation into the stability of a proportional-rate extremum regulator, which utilizes this fact to establish the optimum gain setting from finite estimates of the measurable mean-square apparent error. Assuming a parabolic operating characteristic, the stability and dynamic behavior of the adaptive loop is studied using path tangent curves in the incremental phase plane. The ability of the regulator to establish the optimum gain setting for a given system is verified experimentally for a number of different operating conditions. In addition, the experimental results show that the transient disturbances generated by the corrections to the gain parameter may adversely affect the regulator stability if they exist over a sufficient fraction of the measurement period."
"A common automatic gain control system is analyzed for a white Gaussian noise input and the effects of the noise on the gain of the system are found. Relations are found between the parameters of the system and the mean and variance of the gain, and the parameters are determined that will reduce the ripple caused by the input noise to a minimum."
"The conventional calculus of variations solution of the fixed terminal point regulator problem implies the use of time-varying feedback in the controller. In systems with linear plants such a controller calls for gains that approach infinity as the time approaches the terminal time. An alternate, mathematically equivalent, solution is proposed in this paper. This solution expresses the optimum controller in terms of a sum of time-variant feedback (control law) and a forcing term (control function). Since the feedback gains remain constant and the control function is finite for all positive time, such a solution is physically realizable. The control law also guarantees asymptotic stability even after the terminal time has been reached."
"Several time-optimal velocity control laws are described for a spinning space vehicle. It is shown that several laws, rather than a unique law, result from the non-normality of the system. Given initial pitch and yaw body rates, a control system is defined that will drive these rates to zero in minimum time."
"The Lyapunov functionVand its time derivative\\dot{V}are expressed in matrix form byx'Sxandx'Tx, respectively, whereSandTcontain elements which involve the state variables, andx'is the transpose ofx. A given fourth-order nonlinear system is characterized by\\dot{x}=A(x)x, whereA(x)contains nonlinear elements. Simanov's problem is extended to a fourth-order system whose nonlinearity is a constrained function of two state variables."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The theory of moment stability of random linear systems is extended to systems containing stationary, possibly correlated, Gaussian random parameters with rational nonwhite spectra. Sufficient conditions for the stability of the moments of the system are derived. Several stronger results are obtained for some restricted systems."
"The error detector in a certain sampled-data servomechanism, whose controller computes two simple, coupled, and first-order difference equations, periodically estimates the sign of the difference between the output of the difference equations and the input to the servo. Noise occasionally causes the servo's error detector to misestimate the sign of this error. If the error detector misestimates the sign of the error too often, the error can randomly walk into a region in which the error detector makes completely unreliable reports, thereby preventing the servo from ever locking onto its input and nulling the error. This paper shows how to calculate the probability that the servo will fail to lock onto its input, for any pair of initial values of the error and its first time derivative and for any finite number of iterations of the two difference equations, provided that certain probability distributions of the error detector's sign estimates are known."
"Two theorems with applications are presented in this paper. It is shown that a particular application of the second method of Lyapunov yields the time optimal solution to the feedback design problem for a class of systems satisfying conditions of Theorem 1. Theorem 2 can be used to design a class of feedback systems satisfying any given settling time in terms of initial perturbations of the plant."
"This paper describes a linear servo with time-varying parameters, whereby Doppler navigation is accomplished with a single-scanning radar beam. Exact, closed-form expressions have been derived to describe the servo response for certain restrictive conditions, and a digital computer program has been written to cover a more general class of solutions. Interpretations of analytical and numerical results are included."
"A new point of view for the parameter variation problem in linear multivariable systems is proposed. The output deviations due to parameter variations for an open-loop realization are related by a sensitivity matrix to the output deviations due to parameter variations for a closed-loop (feedback) realization. Using a time-domain integral of the square of the error as a performance index, frequency-domain criteria involving the sensitivity matrix are derived. The criteria are sufficient for insuring that the feedback realization is less affected by parameter variations than an open-loop realization having the same nominal transfer characteristic. Furthermore, the criteria are independent of the integration interval involved in the performance index. A numerical example shows how the criteria may be used in designing multivariable control systems."
"This paper presents a short survey of control systems employing Poncelet's principle, better known as the principle of invariance. Control systems based solely on the principle of invariance as well as those combining both feedback control and invariance principles are described and critically analyzed."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This communication provides a graphical technique for the construction of the equation\\ddot{x} + \\phi (\\dot{x})g(x) + \\psi (\\dot{x})h(x) = 0. This technique can be carried out with, at most, two triangles and a compass and is suited to the construction of phase plane trajectories of nonlinear second-order differential equations."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Given a body subject to quadratic drag forces so that the positiony(t)and the applied control thrustu(t)are related by\\ddot{y}(t)+a\\dot{y}(t)|\\dot{y}(t)| = u(t), |u(t)| \\leq 1, the controlu(t)is found which forces the body to a desired position, and stops it there, and which minimizes the costJ=\\int\\liminf{0} \\limsup{T}\\{k + |u(t)|\\}dt. The response timeTis not fixed,k > 0, and|u(t)|is proportional to the rate of flow of fuel. Repeated use of the necessary conditions provided by the Maximum Principle results in the optimum feedback system. It is shown that ifk\\leq 1, then singular controls exist and they are optimal; ifk > 1, then singular controls are not optimal. Techniques for the construction of the various switch curves are given, and extensions of the results to other nonlinear systems are discussed."
"A simple method is presented for obtaining the time response of any time-invariant linear system for zero or nonzero initial conditions and for inputs which can be expressed analytically. The method, in addition to its use in obtaining total solutions, is also useful in engineering education and industrial practice in learning how the basic types of transfer functions contribute to total system dynamics. Furthermore, as one's experience with this method increases, competence is gained in estimating the form of the total solution from an observation of the system transfer function and time input."
"Design procedures are presented for the compensation of linear multivariable-feedback systems. The design objectives which are noninteraction and low-order compensators are obtained by state-variable feedback. Aqth order plant withminputs andmoutputs whereq>mis treated. All the state variables are assumed to be available and measurable. It is shown that it is often possible by state-variable feedback to obtain noninteraction without an increase in system order. When the determinant of the plant transfer-function matrix has right half plane zeros the state-variable feedback method cannot be used to obtain noninteraction since the resulting compensated system would be unstable. It is shown that it is not possible to change these right-half plane zeros by either the well-known transfer-function design methods or by the state-variable feedback method. A combination of both transfer-function and state-variable techniques is discussed and shown to lower the order of the compensators required for the compensation of certain systems."
"A general form of area inequality is used to develop a frequency domain criterion for absolute stability of single-nonlinear sampled-data (SNSD) systems. By reductions of the general form to specific area inequalities, it is suggested that all known and some new frequency domain criteria applicable to different subclasses of SNSD systems may be derived as special cases. One of the latter involvingq < 0is investigated to determine its significance and general applicability to SNSD systems. An example of a SNSD system with dead zone is used to illustrate some of the results presented."
"A predictive system was described by Chestnut, et al. [4]. The purpose of this work is to increase the types of plants which can be controlled by such systems by making the fast time model adaptive, and to experimentally compare the random signal behavior of the resultant system with various other types of controllers. These controllers include a relay controller adjusted to switch when the error is zero, and a linear controller. According to the criteria of the minimum integral of the absolute error, the adaptive predictive controller delivered the most satisfactory-responses for second- and third-order systems."
"The application involves two solid-state transmitters, separated in space but moving with respect to one another. One in an interrogator and another in a transponder, reduce peak power by simultaneously transmitting to each other a maximum pulse width equal to the varying transmission time between them. Although difficult to visualize or to analyze intuitively on a continuous basis, system operation may be determined approximately from error-detector difference equations, state variables, flow graphs, and discrete transforms. As shown, interrelated control loops exist. One, a phase-lock loop, equates both transmitted pulses in width and in time; another, a range-track loop, equates both pulse widths to the transmission time. Statically and dynamically these loops differ, and their design for a required system performance is described. Examples illustrate the performance of the control loops, and the occurrence of this type of control problem in other applications is discussed."
"Vibratory drive, vibratory output instruments for sensing angular rates, such as tuning forks, potentially offer certain advantages over conventional gyroscopes. The theoretical performance of these devices has not been realized experimentally because of zero-rate errors attributed to mass unbalance, driving force unbalance and other imperfections. By separating the driving and sensing frequencies through a process called double modulation, obtained through an additional rotation or vibration of the basic sensing element, zero-rate errors may be diminished. Theoretical and experimental evidence in support of the double modulation concept is presented. A tuning-fork type of instrument has been used in the initial experiments and a substantial improvement over the performance of the same instrument without double modulation has been realized."
"The objective of this paper is to describe the use of the direct method of Lyapunov together with an inverse transformation process as a basis for determining the stability domain and for estimating the stability boundary of the null solution of a set of autonomous difference equations which describe the dynamics of a class of discrete-time control systems. Two theorems are developed which give sufficient conditions for the existence of an asymptotic stability boundary, which is a hypersurface enclosing a simply-connected domain, provided that a Lyapunov function\\upsilon(x)exists in a neighborhood of the origin. The proofs of these theorems indicate that an original subdomain of asymptotic stability, obtained by using a Lyapunov function, can be enlarged by applying an inverse transformation to the boundary of the subdomain. The inverse transformation is defined from the given set of difference equations as giving the state at thekth instant in terms of the state at the (k+1)th instant. The exact boundary of asymptotic stability is theoretically obtained in the limit by carrying out the inverse transformation an infinite number of times. Analogous to the work on stability, two theorems give sufficient conditions for the existence of an instability boundary which is a hypersurface surrounding a simply connected domain that includes the origin. It is shown that a known domain of instability found by using a Lyapunov function can be increased in size by applying the inverse transformation to its boundary. An important property of this approach is that each time the inverse transformation is applied, an enlarged region of known asymptotic stability or instability is found. In addition to giving stability information, the successive plots of the boundaries can also be used to give the settling time of the system."
"The principle of contraction mapping is well established in mathematics. It has been used in control theory and its application to control systems considered as recursive processes has been investigated. The principle is valid for nonlinear systems and can be used to establish stability in nonlinear control. Also, because the existence of a solution can be obtained by a recursive algorithm, the principle can be used in adaptive or learning systems to generate a desired output function recursively. In this paper, after reviewing the background and recent results on the application of contraction mapping to control systems, the principle is applied to aircraft terrain following. Next, a scheme is presented for a learning model, involving the control of a system with undetermined parameters. In conclusion, the connection between a discrete iterative process and a continuous operation is discussed."
"In vector-matrix representation, input constraints for a completely controllable, linear system are imposed by constraining the input vector to belong to a compact, convex subset, Ω, of its vector space. Precise definitions are given for the maximum region of recoverability and the maximum region of teachability. Both regions depend on three parameters; the final or initial state, starting time, and terminal time. General properties of both regions are given. Three theorems are presented. The first gives a necessary and sufficient condition for the maximum region of recoverability to be the whole state space. The second relates the maximum region of recoverability and the maximum region of teachability for constant systems. The third theorem relates the maximum region of recoverability (for infinite travel time) for a \"totally unstable\" (all eigenvalue real-parts positive) constant system with the maximum region of recoverability (for infinite travel time) for the general constant system. Computational results for the maximum region of recoverability for the constant case are presented."
"The problem of reticulating (partitioning) a multivariable control problem is investigated. An iterative process is suggested, where each subprogram is solved successively under the conditions imposed by the solutions of the other subproblems through the interactions of the original control problem. For a special case, it is shown that the rate of convergence of this process is a function of how the reticulation is made. This yields a quantitative measure of reticulating which is then used to determine the optimal reticulation."
"The problem of optimizing linear-stationary control systems subject to quadratic performance indices and bounded control effort constraints is studied. This problem was first proposed by Letov [1]. His solution, however, has been found to be valid only in some special cases [3]. In this paper, necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of the optimal control laws of the saturation type are developed. It is shown that the weighting factors in the performance index have to be chosen in a particular manner, and the plants have to satisfy certain conditions to yield an optimal saturation type control law. As the weighting on the control effort in the performance index is decreased, the optimal solution approaches a bang-bang type singular control."
"Synthesis of optimal guidance approximations is undertaken by means of a perturbation theory approach and a scheme for obtaining linear, quadratic and higher order feedback approximations to the optimal control presented. Mechanization is carried out in terms of state deviations from an optimal reference trajectory with the comparison point along the reference selected so that the state comparison is approximately transverse. A simple example is treated analytically, linear and quadratic feedback expressions obtained, and some digital computer simulation results presented which permit a comparison of system performance and accuracy between various approximations."
"A method of designing nonlinear controls for stationary plants is presented in the paper. The objective of the design is to produce soft-saturation-type constraints on certain state variables, such as velocity or acceleration. This is accomplished by formulating the problem as an optimization of a nonquadratic performance index. A sequence of suboptimal controls is then obtained. Although this sequence converges to the exact optimum solution, the procedure is stopped when the complexity of the resulting non-linear controller exceeds the design considerations of cost, size, and/or reliability. Experimental results of an actual design clearly indicate the desired velocity saturation effects."
"This paper compares the adaptive and disturbance attenuation properties of the linear feedback system with those of the self-oscillating-adaptive system (SOAS). The purpose is to permit the designer to decide, in any specific problem, which of the two systems is preferable. In minimum-phase plants, the system sensitivity to feedback transducer noise is used as the basis for comparison. In nonminimum phase plants an additional consideration is the sheer realizability of system specifications. Due to the absence of a rational, quantitative design procedure for the SOAS, it was first necessary to develop one. This is presented for the single loop SOAS using a bistable element, and without limit cycle identifier and gain changer. The procedure may be easily applied to other kinds of nonlinear elements. The relative superiority of the linear system and the SOAS depends on the following factors: ratio of extreme output plant must deliver to maximum acceptable limit cycle amplitude, the severity of the disturbance attenuation problem, the actual extremes of parameter variations and acceptable tolerances, and the magnitude and frequency distribution of feedback transducer noise. In some problems the critical factor is the response of the SOAS nonlinear element to high-frequency noise. The problem areas in which the SOAS is superior may be increased if a minor loop is added around the nonlinear element. The possible advantages of adding a limit-cycle identifier and a gain changer to the SOAS are also considered."
"A general identification system is studied for an important class of realistic, time-varying processes. This class consists of those in which the process is nominally known, and the statistical characteristics of its varying parameters and of the environment are also known. The expression for identification error in terms of the spectral properties of the parameter variations and of the output transducer noise is developed. Optimization procedures are given to minimize the perturbation-correlation system's mean-square identification error."
"Stability of a linear system having a sinusoidally varying physical parameter is determined by studying the characteristic equation to the system. Conditions for asymptotic stability are derived from theorems of Floquet, Cauchy, and Poincaré. These lead to an infinite determinant, approximated by a finite determinant, from which conditions on the physical parameters for stability are determined. Experimental results on two systems show the validity of the approximation, and also indicate that a vibratory element can induce stability in an otherwise unstable system."
"The conventional solution for the optimal control of a linear-stationary regulator with quadratic performance index and fixed terminal time leads to a linear control law with time-varying gain coefficients [1]. In addition to the usual disadvantages of time-variable controllers, some of the time-varying gain coefficients approach infinity as the specified terminal time is approached. In the present paper, it is shown that the optimal control for the above problem can be expressed in the form of a time-invariant non-linear control law. Certain parameters in the nonlinear control law are functions of the initial time and initial state of the system. The conventional time-varying linear control law can be obtained directly from the time-invariant nonlinear control law. The results of the present paper are applicable to a more general class of optimal control problems involving linear and nonlinear systems. Two examples are given to illustrate the method."
"This paper treats the problem of optimal control of a typical distributed-parameter system governed by a heat conduction equation. The problem is to minimize, the deviation of the temperature distribution from the assigned distribution at a given time. Two methods are shown for the solution of the optimal control problem. One is the variational method, and the other consists of reducing the problem to a linear or nonlinear programming problem. Upon use of the variational technique, Fredholm's integral equation of the first kind is derived as a necessary condition for the optimal control. By replacing the minimization of a functional by the minimization of a function of many variables, numerical solutions can be obtained by using the technique of linear or nonlinear programming."
"It has been suggested by Rosenbrock [8] that a method to improve the over-all control of a complex process like a distillation column is to use a theory based on matrix algebra to adjust the dynamic response of the process to some required response before applying conventional control. The development has the main drawback that a very large number of control and measurement variables are required. Practical considerations require that these be reduced. The method suggested is quite generally applicable to any linear multivariable system. It is shown that, when only a limited number of variables are used for control and measurement, the maximum improvement possible can be estimated from asymptotic considerations. Further this limit on system performance is dependent only on the process and the number of variables available for control and measurement, not on the control system details. The theory was applied to a linearized model of a five-plate binary distillation column and the lowest natural frequency was increased by a factor of five. This paper includes neither details of how this system of control would be realized practically nor what is the desired response of the system before applying conventional control. This is a preliminary survey of the prospects for this system of control and with the encouraging answers obtained it will be worthwhile pursuing the method further."
"An examination is made of some effects of rigid-body elastic-mode coupling on the longitudinal dynamics of a highly-flexible delta-winged aircraft. In particular, the influence of the coupling on the automatic control system's ability to provide preselected short-period dynamics is investigated. Also, a brief check is made of the sensitivity of the dynamics to small errors in elastic-mode shape. The coupling is shown to be quite severe, precluding the establishment of approximate control element gain values with only a rigid-body dynamic analysis. In addition, very high accuracy is needed in determining elastic-mode shapes, since the strong coupling renders the dynamics objectionably sensitive to small errors in elastic-mode shape data."
"The method of dynamic programming is applied to the problem of the optimum guidance of an interceptor designed to intercept a target capable of random maneuvers. A cost is associated with any final miss distance and with the interceptor maneuvers, and, because of the randomness of the target motion, the cost is also a random variable. By assuming that the cost components are quadratic functions of their arguments and by utilizing the ensemble average of the cost, a relatively simple closed-form expression for the control and for the average cost is obtained. It is found that the optimum system is stable and well damped, and that the effect of the random maneuvers is relatively small."
"Synthesis through linear optimal-control theory is applied to two types of model-following systems. Although the two system concepts are fundamentally different, the optimal-control theory in both cases generates constant feedback gains which modify the plant dynamics so that the resultant system response approaches that of the model. Each synthesis method produces an optimal-control law that has a closed-form solution and minimizes an integral quadratic performance index involving both system errors and control motions. The first type of model-following system is generated by incorporating the model only in the performance index. The integral square error between the model and the system is minimized by one term in the performance index. The basic idea in this system is to alter, by the feedback, the coefficients in the equations of motion for the plant so that these coefficients approach those of the model. The feedback control obtained from this method depends on the solution of the matrix Riccati equation, and also on a product of constant matrices. For an infinite weight on the error term in the performance index, the solution of the Riccati equation approaches zero. The second type of model-following system incorporates the model as part of the control system, and places it ahead of the plant as a prefilter. The difference between the model output and the plant output is minimized in the performance index. The resulting system has not only feedback gains for the plant state variables but also feedforward gains for the model state variables. Evaluation shows that the feedback gains are independent of the model, and are exactly those which would be obtained for the normal regulator problem. The feedforward gains depend on both plant and model."
"The problem of minimal fuel thrust programming for the terminal phase of a lunar soft landing mission is shown to be equivalent to the minimal time problem for the mission. The existence of an optimal (minimal fuel) thrust program for the problem is then assured by appealing to existence theorems for time optimal controls, and the optimal thrust program is developed by application of the Pontryagin maximum principle. It is shown that the optimal thrust program consists of either full thrust from the initiation of the mission until touchdown, or a period of zero thrust (free-fall) followed by full thrust until touchdown. An approximate switching function which is adequate for a large number of cases is derived, and a preliminary system design is presented."
"The approach to control system design discussed in this paper has as its purpose the more effective utilization of optimal control theory for the development and the evaluation of practical system designs. Rather than specifying initially a single performance index (or an arbitrary scalar function of several indices), the performance bounds relating the various competing performance requirements of the system are first evaluated using optimization techniques, so that the ultimate trade offs achievable between these requirements are well understood. These performance bounds then form the basis not only for a more meaningful specification of optimum system performance, but also for the evaluation of sub-optimal designs which are developed from approximations of the optimal control strategies, from previous designs, and from the experience and insight of the designer. The specific example of the satellite attitude control problem is used to illustrate this design approach. Performance bounds between control fuel expenditure and control time are obtained over a range of initial conditions. Using this information and the knowledge of the form of the minimum-fuel control law, a simple feedback control design is developed which is superior to either the well-known minimum-time or the minimum-fuel solutions, both from the point of view of achieving on-the-bound performance which represents the best compromise between these competing performance requirements and from the point of view of practical implementation. The final portion of the paper describes the computer-aided design program which has been undertaken to extend this design approach to more complex control problems."
"In the mechanization of the switching curve for single-input, time-optimal control of a linear plant, unavoidable physical limitations lead to an actual switching curve which deviates significantly from the optimal. If the desired system operation is the reaching of the origin of the state plane, nonoptimal operation can result in either a constant steady state different from the origin, a chatter point, or a limit cycle. In this paper, only the limit cycle is assumed to constitute tolerable system operation. Hence, a class of nonoptimal switching curves is defined, any member of which is classified as a chatterfree switching curve. Both an upper and a lower bound are derived for the resultant limit cycle when a chatterfree switching curve is used for the bang-bang control of either a two-dimensional plant with distinct real poles or a two-dimensional plant with complex conjugate poles. Existence of a nontrivial lower bound demonstrates the existence of a limit cycle. The optimal switching curve with a switching time delay is cited as an example of a chatterfree switching curve. The upper and lower bounds may be evaluated numerically in practice by a simple graphical construction."
"In this paper, a general class of stochastic estimation and control problems is formulated from the Bayesian Decision-Theoretic viewpoint. A discussion as to how these problems can be solved step by step in principle and practice from this approach is presented. As a specific example, the closed form Wiener-Kalman solution for linear estimation in Gaussian noise is derived. The purpose of the paper is to show that the Bayesian approach provides; 1) a general unifying framework within which to pursue further researches in stochastic estimation and control problems, and 2) the necessary computations and difficulties that must be overcome for these problems. An example of a nonlinear, non-Gaussian estimation problem is also solved."
"An approximate method is presented for solving optimization problems. A truncated series of exponential functions is used to approximate a desired state variable or output of a system. Integral-square error is used as the criterion to be minimized. The coefficients of the series are determined in such a way that the error index is minimum, subject to the physical constraints imposed on the system. In this way, the dynamic problem is converted into a static one. The resulting problem becomes a general problem of mathematical programming which may be solved either by digital or analog computers. Once the coefficients of the approximating signal are determined, the input control signal is determined through the relationship of the process dynamics of the system. This approximate method of optimization is simple, and possesses the important advantage of requiring less computer time than exact optimization methods."
"A new describing function called the Elliptic Describing Function (EDF) is defined which allows the waveshape of a limit cycle to be determined after the amplitude and frequency have been found. The application of the EDF is nonrigorous mathematically but is justified by examples. The technique is based on the fitting of the nonlinear characteristic-whatever its shape so long as it is single-valued, odd-symmetrical, and frequency-independent-by an odd cubic polynomial. Considerable evidence exists which justifies this seemingly drastic approximation. Three examples are given illustrating the errors involved. Comparisons are made with the ordinary DF and new RMS DF for two examples and with a total of six DF's for a third. The results are encouraging."
"A study is made of the destabilizing effects of variations in a system's parameters. It is shown that the sensitivity function provides a quantitative measure of the system stability relative to a parameter. These measures, the parameter gain and phase margins, are multiloop generalizations of the familiar gain and phase margins in the servo literature."
"This paper presents a learning technique for obtaining a model of a finite memory nonlinear process using only the input-output operating record. The model obtained simulates the process cause-effect relationship rather than the detailed structure of the process. As such, it is a \"black box\" model which can be used as a fast-time model for least-time control of the process. The learning technique used is similar to the technique of feature detection used in pattern recognition. Certain features of the input waveform\\alpha_{1}, \\alpha_{2}, ... , \\alpha_{N}are observed, along with the quantized output levelsy_{1}, y_{2}, ... , y_{m}. From these observations the lower-order probability distributionsP[\\alpha_{j}/y_{i}]are obtained. These lower-order probability distributions are used to approximate the higher-order distributionsP(\\alpha_{1}, \\alpha_{2}, ... , \\alpha_{N}, y_{i}). By incorporating these higher-order distributions into the equations of decision theory, the process output for a given input can be obtained."
"An adaptive procedure is described and demonstrated which causes a reduction of the mean-square error of a linear stationary random process, without explicit knowledge of the characteristics of the process. The procedure is recursive and, at every step, involves the simultaneous adjustment of an arbitrary number of parameters in a feedback compensator. The adjustment is based on estimates of the error gradient in the space of the adjustable parameters."
"This paper describes an identification technique which is a practical approach to on-line impulse response identification for linear systems in the face of noise and in the presence of a normal operating signal. The technique is a digital form of cross-correlation utilizing a discrete interval binary test signal. Experimental results for first-second- and fourth-order systems are included."
"Servo systems in which reference and feedback signals are subtracted suffer from two weaknesses; their sensitivity to common-mode noise and the partial dependence of their accuracy upon signal magnitude. It is shown that if the subtraction process is replaced by division, improved performance can result. The required division circuit is synthesized from a simple resistive attenuator after noting that a voltage e1may be divided by a second voltage e2if the attenuator's shunt resistance is caused to vary properly with e2. The functional relationship between these quantities is expressed mathematically and the parametric resistor's\\upsilon-icharacteristic is analyzed. Results indicate that a semiconductor diode can be used to match the required function over a wide voltage range. Design problems are discussed, and experimental data from measurements on a prototype circuit are presented and compared with theoretical performance."
"Parameters are determined for an autopilot that is required to stabilize an elastic launch vehicle and simultaneously provide aerodynamic load reduction in the presence of wind disturbances during the boost phase of flight. The vehicle model considered is aerodynamically unstable. Two methods of investigation were employed, 1) Digital frequency response studies at specific flight conditions and 2) Analog study of system response during the flight trajectory. The two independent approaches complement each other. Control gains and compensation dynamics that meet single-axis stability requirements are determined. Stability analyses take into account a flexible airframe at particular discrete locations on the trajectory. These gains are then incorporated in an analog simulation to determine vehicle response through the entire trajectory."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Aizerman's method for investigating asymptotic stability in the large, which was extended by Kodama to encompass nonlinear sampled-data systems, is further extended in this paper. The concept is developed with specific reference to pulse-width-modulated feedback systems, but the method is applicable to a more general class of nonlinear discrete-time systems. The significant difference between the class of systems treated here and the class treated by Kodama is that in the latter class the nonlinear factor is a scalar, whereas in the former, it is a vector. This difference is not trivial; the presence of the vector nonlinearity requires a substantial change in the procedure for determining the range of a parameter over which the system is asymptotically stable in the large. By application of the method presented in this paper, one can obtain a sufficient condition for asymptotic stability in the large of pulse-width-modulated feedback systems. The method is not limited to cases in which the poles of the transfer function of the plant are real and/or simple and the result obtained, at least in those cases investigated to date, is not highly conservative."
"The objectives of this and the companion papers following are to introduce and explain new concepts for the design of transmission line circuits which will theoretically provide frequency-independent performance. All of the circuits are constructed according to log-periodic design principles. As with the corresponding log-periodic antennas, these circuits may be designed to give essentially frequency-independent performance over any desired finite bandwidth. Particularly useful circuits to be described are three-port constant phase difference circuits and four-port hybrids."
"A schematic diagram of the constant phase difference circuits to be discussed is given in Fig. 1. It consists of two similar two-port log-periodic circuits with their inputs connected in parallel."
"The four-port circuits to be discussed are actually eight-port circuits with pairs of ports connected in a balanced manner. Thus, it may be necessary in some applications to use frequency-independent baluns, such as those described in the preceding paper, to feed the hybrid. Since the coupled outputs of the log-periodic octaline junctions are equal in magnitude and either in phase or out of phase, the circuit behaves as a magic T. Log-periodic quadra line hybrid junctions, for which the coupled outputs are 90/spl deg/ out of phase, will be the subject of a future paper. The log-periodic hybrids should find wide application in wideband search, ECM and monopulse tracking systems. As will be discussed, these circuits are best suited for the frequency ranges from 50 Mc to 10 Gc."
"Low-pass constant-k filters and exact insertion-loss filters of the Butterworth or Tchebycheff types have long been used as prototype sections for bandpass filters in the microwave region. Such filters having LC ladder structures can be readily transformed into coupled-cavity bandpass microwave filters. Such basic low-pass prototypes having monotonically increasing rejection characteristics will contain many circuit elements when sharp cutoff characteristics are required. The introduction of m-derived sections, or the synthesis of prototype filters exhibiting Tchebycheff ripple characteristics in the stop band, reduces the number of elements. These filters are no longer simple ladder networks and, when transformed to yield bandpass or band-reject characteristics, contain complex arrangements of circuit elements which cannot be readily realized as a microwave structure."
"The major problem in the design of multichannel filters is that of obtaining a network that separates a given frequency band into n-channels with minimum insertion Ioss and a low VSWR at the input port. The complexity of the structure is determined by the allowable width of the crossover regions between frequency bands and the required isolation between bands."
"For each mode of propagation in waveguide, there is a critical (cutoff) frequency below which waves do not propagate. In practice, it is preferable to restrict the propagation to a single mode. If the dominant (TE-11) mode in circular waveguide is to be utilized, other modes may be excluded by operating at frequencies below the cutoff of the next mode (usually the TM-01). Thus the ratio of the TM-01 cutoff frequency over the TE- 11 limits the waveguide's useful bandwidth. This ratio is 1.31 for uniform filling, and may be increased to 1.41 by a dielectric lining in the waveguide. A much greater ratio can be achieved by periodically loading the waveguide with discs of high dielectric constant, as shown in Fig. 1. The waveguide diameter is decreased to raise the cutoff frequency of the TM-01 mode, and the dielectric discs are inserted to lower the TE-11 cutoff frequency. As will be shown, the discs have relatively little effect on the TM-01 mode."
"Several laboratories in Europe and the United States have recently become interested in the TM/sub 11/ mode in cylindrical disk-loaded waveguide. This interest has been stimulated by the realization that the TM/sub 11/ mode exhibits interesting and useful properties when made to interact with charged particle beams. Whereas the TM/sub 01/ mode in cylindrical disk-loaded waveguide has been used for years to give cumulative longitudinal interaction with an electron beam, as, for example, in traveling-wave tubes or linear accelerators, the TM/sub 11/ mode is found to exert a transverse force on particles traveling along the direction of propagation."
"This paper describes some results of a theoretical study of the propagation characteristics of a number of periodic circularly cylindrical structures loaded with axially magnetized ferrimagnetic material, as shown in Fig. 1."
"In January 1960, a ferrite switch was described which had very attractive characteristics. These included an \"off\" insertion loss of 60 decibels and an \"on\" insertion loss of under 0.1 decibels. The name given to the switch was the tetrahedral junction ferrite switch. Figure 1 is a sketch of the switch. The ferrite rod is centrally located along the longitudinal axis of the junction. The switch is turned \"on\" and \"off\" by the application and removal of a magnetic field which is generated by a magnetizing coil. The length of the rod is the same as that of the junction with one-inch tapers extending into the input and output waveguides for matching purposes."
"Among the several papers which have appeared in the literature pertaining to the ferrite junction circulator, those of AuId, Bosma and Butterweck have seemed to us to be the most helpful in obtaining an understanding of the device. There have, however, been some points needing clarification, which we shall attempt to cover in this paper."
"Theoretical consideration of the junction circulator has taken the form of group-theoretical treatment of the characteristic modes of symmetrical junctions and analysis of the spatial configurations of the modes under certain simplifying assumptions regarding the structure of the junction. Although a considerable advance in the quality of Y-junction circulators has taken place during the same period, it has not been possible to apply the results of the theory to the design effort. The mechanical improvements, which include the shaping of the ferrite, use of composite dielectric-ferrite elements, addition of tuning elements at the ports and, in stripline versions, shaping of the center conductor, have increased the complexity of the device to the point where existing simplified theoretical models can serve at most only as a qualitative guide."
"Ferrite circulators that have been built in the past fall into two categories: non-symmetrical, distributed-parameter type, such as the Faraday rotation and differential phase shift circulators; and the symmetrical, abrupt discontinuity type, such as the \"Wye\" junction circulator. This paper describes a third type, which has both the properties of symmetry and a distributed interaction region. As such, it is believed that this type of circulator has potential for quite large bandwidths."
"Phonons have been generated and detected at 70 kMcps using piezoelectric surface excitation in single-crystal quartz. Echoes are observed from multiple reflections of acoustic waves in a quartz rod excited by a microwave pulse. The temperature dependence of the relative attenuation of several acoustic modes has been measured from 4.2/spl deg/ to 25/spl deg/K. Previously, experiments using the surface excitation of acoustic waves in solids have been carried out up to 24 kMcps."
"Since the proposal of a method of coherent spin wave excitation by Schlomann and its verification by Eshbach, an interest in the use of coherent spin waves has arisen."
"The ability to delay microwave signals and, in particular, to electronically control the delay, is exceedingly important in certain electronic systems. There has been considerable activity in this field recently, much of it centered about fixed-delay techniques using acoustic waves, and variable-delay techniques using combinations of acoustic waves and spin waves, in various single-crystal materials. This paper describes the operation of a new kind of delay device--a two-port electronically variable delay line utilizing pure spin-wave propagation in single-crystal yttrium iron garnet. Particular advantages of this device are transmission-type (two-port) operation, delay continuously variable from zero to several microseconds by means of the magnetic field, and no critical dimensions or surface finishes."
"The application of yttrium iron garnet in microwave devices has been associated with electronic tuneable filters and low-level power limiters. The characteristics of YIG exploited in these components is the extremely narrow Iinewidth of the material in the region of ferromagnetic resonance."
"This paper concerns a solid-state modulator that uses both a crystal diode and a ferrite, which is particularly useful as a high-speed pulse modulator for millimeter waves."
"There have been many schemes devised to detect phase shift at microwave frequencies. Most of them are capable of high accuracy when measuring a steady state phase change. The problem becomes a little more complex when one desires to monitor phase when it is varying with time, where the time intervals may be in the order of a few microseconds. The double probe method has been adapted to measure phase modulation, but falls short in two instances: a) the range of phase change is limited, i.e., up to 90/spl deg/; b) the technique is difficult to adapt to measurements at millimeter wavelengths, The \"zebra-stripe\" Wharton microwave interferometer is capable of handling wide dynamic phase shifts, but here again we find a disadvantage in that a large number of fringe shifts, caused by very large phase changes, make it cumbersome to resolve the phase vs time contour. Another scheme by Osborne presents the phase vs time as a polar plot, where timing pulses appear as dots on the display. Multiradian phase shifts are again difficult to resolve."
"Oversize waveguide has recently been used successfully to develop a variable attenuator, directional coupler, phase shifter, and a duplexer at 330 Gc. Use of oversize waveguide results in lower loss components at millimeter and submillimeter wavelengths. Filter structures using quasioptical techniques in oversize waveguides are described in this paper."
"In 1959, E. T. Jaynes suggested that resonant, multiquantum processes could provide an efficient method of frequency conversion at high frequency and high powers. This conversion is mediated by a gas or solid composed of molecules having a strong electric-dipole absorption at a frequency /spl Omega/. Such a system can resonantly absorb energy from an electromagnetic field at all odd subharmonic of /spl Omega/. The /spl omega/ /spl ap/ /spl Omega/ /(2n + 1) subharmonic absorption is said to correspond to a 2n + 1 quantum process. The excited (driven) molecular system has electric dipole moments at all odd harmonics of the drive /spl omega/. The resonant dipole moment at a frequency (2n + 1)/spl omega/ /spl ap/ /spl Omega/ generates an electromagnetic field resulting in the frequency conversion process proposed by Jaynes. Here we report theoretical calculations and experimental observation of this multiquantum frequency conversion in a traveling-wave structure."
"Summary form only given, as follows. This talk will review some of the important devices and techniques available for optical reception, particularly in possible future optical communications systems. An exhaustive survey of all the existing or proposed photo-devices will not be attempted. Rather, some hopefully instructive comments will be offered on such key topics as: optical heterodyning; optical heterodyne receivers vs laser amplifier receivers; synthesis of special optical networks; and linear or coherent detection vs quantum counting."
"At present, the most promising technique for demodulating frequency-modulated (FM) light is to convert the FM signal to an AM signal; the AM signal can then be demodulated by a microwave photo tube, photodiode, or other means. This paper deals with the discrimination process, i.e., the conversion of FM light to AM light. In particular, we describe several discriminators composed of birefringent crystals and polarizers."
"Photodetectors for the detection of microwave-modulated optical radiation have recently received increasing attention. Passive microwave photodiodes (containing no negative resistance or other gain-producing mechanism) have been recently developed and some experimental work has been presented on active parametric photodiodes. An active photodetector is one in which a gain-producing mechanism, such as a negative resistance, appears."
"The contemplated application of laser radiation include optical systems which are similar to present microwave RADAR and communication systems. However, to provide the degree of sophistication presently obtainable at microwave frequencies, it is necessary to have high-performance optical components. One approach to the design of laser systems is to employ waveguide-type components, analogous to those presently available at microwave frequencies. This paper discusses single-mode, macroscopic, optical wave guide which is proposed as a construction medium for the fabrication of optical components. The term \"macroscopic\" implies that the waveguide dimensions are at least an order of magnitude greater than the wavelength of light, which is considered sufficiently large to permit fabrication with reasonable tolerances."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Present and future high-power microwave systems impose stringent performance requirements on circuits for switching, duplexing, attenuating, and phase shifting of transmitted power. These control functions are achieved either with purely mechanical microwave circuits, or by utilizing the interaction between microwave circuits and nonlinear materials such as plasmas, ferrites and semiconductors. The high-power limitations of such control circuits will be reviewed with particular emphasis on their relative performance characteristics and on anticipated improvements in performance in the near future."
"The rapidly increasing number of high-power transmitters are creating a serious problem in radio frequency interference. A large part of this problem is the emission of harmonic and other spurious frequencies, which can be eliminated without affecting the signal bandwidth of the transmitter. Various types of filter have been investigated both analytically and experimentally; this paper will review some of this work. The intention is to compare different situations and different filters, rather than to treat any one filter in detail."
"A previously reported high-speed microwave spark gap switch is triggered with a flash of intense ultraviolet light, but requires the applied rf power Ievel to be close to the self-breakdown value of the gap. For this reason, the reliable use of the u-v triggered switch is restricted to rf pulse widths which are less than the formative time for an rf discharge (0.25-0.50 microseconds)."
"The subject of this paper is the generation and measurement of high-power nanosecond pulses of microwave energy. The technique involves the sudden release of energy stored in a standing wave in a linear resonator with a resultant gain in peak power over that used to charge the resonator. Alternative techniques using traveling-wave resonators and other circuits have not achieved equivalent power levels, and are inherently limited by greater losses, complex circuitry, and lack of power gain. The key to this technique is the ability to switch in less than a nanosecond by using a triggered high-pressure gas discharge gap. The apparatus was constructed for use at X-band frequencies to study breakdown of gases on a nanosecond time scale."
"This paper presents the results of a study of bends for oversized rectangular waveguide having cross-sectional dimensions in the range between 1.5 and 2.5 free-space wavelengths. It is expected that waveguide having these dimensions will be able to transmit 50 to 100 kw of average power at X-band without water cooling. The transmission of at least 5.0 megawatts of peek power at X-band without pressurization is also a design objective."
"A new type of solid state high-power limiter, which utilizes the large-signal nonlinear characteristics of ferroelectric materials, has been developed. Experimental 218 Mc units have handled peak input power levels in excess of 25 kw while yielding saturated output power levels of about 300 watts and a small-signal insertion loss of 0.5 db. The limiter consists of a symmetrical, loop-coupled, capacity-loaded, coaxial line cavity as shown in Fig. 1. A large portion of the capacity loading is provided by the ferroelectric pellet. Due to the large amount of capacitive loading yielded by the very high dielectric constant ferroelectric material, the cavity length is well under a quarter wavelength. An electric heater is located outside the cavity, but near the ferroelectric pellet, in order to bring the pellet temperature within a few degrees of its Curie temperature. Figure 1 also contains an expanded drawing of the region near the ferroelectric peIlet. The power handling capability, saturated power output level, and small-signal insertion loss are determined by the radius (r/sub f/) and height (d/sub f/) of the ferroelectric pellet. High-voltage breakdown in this region is retarded by coating the lateral surfaces of the ferroelectric pellet and its supporting brass posts with corona dope. The entire assembly is also filled with sulfur hexafluoride gas (SF/sub 6/) as a further precaution against high-voltage breakdown."
"In the Stanford Linear Accelerator, power at 476 Mc is transmitted by a two-mile coaxial line parallel to the accelerator structure. At 30 points along the length of this coaxial line, separated by 333-1/3 feet, a few watts of power are coupled out and multiplied by varactor diode sextuples to the accelerator operating frequency of 2856 Mc, This power is then amplified and transmitted to the accelerator structure to provide acceleration to the electron beam."
"The objective of the work described here was to develop a system-oriented closed-cycle cooled parametric amplifier using a commercially available cooler. The desired characteristics were: tuning range, 7.0 to 8.0 Gc; instantaneous bandwidth, 20 to 30 megacycles; effective noise temperature, about 70/spl deg/ Kelvin including the uncooled X-Band four port circulator. The compatibility for use, at a later date, of more complex multistage coolers to allow cooling of the circulator and parametric amplifier combination, was also an important consideration."
"The tunnel-diode video detector to be discussed is shown in Fig. 1; it consists of a diode mount and a ferrite isolator. The isolator is necessary because the tunnel diode is biased into its negative resistance region. The diode mount was designed for operation at the C-band frequency range of 5.4 to 5.9 Gc. This mount is tunable in order to accommodate diode replacement, and its rf bandwidth is adjustable between the limits of roughly 30 Mc to 700 Mc for selected diodes."
"The technique used to obtain an all-solid-state local oscillator at 68.5 Gc consisted of driving a varactor harmonic generator chain with a transistor-power amplifier. The source was a crystal-controlled transistor oscillator in a temperature-compensated oven yielding a stability of three parts in 10/sup 6/ at a frequency of 44.596 Mc. Alternatively, an external stable source with a 4 milliwatt, 50 ohm output may be used to drive the exciter-power amplifier. The exciter-power amplifier contains a buffer amplifier, a tripler and appropriate power amplification to yield 14 watts at 133.789 Mc from two 2N2876 transistors."
"The design method described here establishes the desired gain at band edges and relies on the symmetry of the circuit reactance characteristic to maintain the gain over the entire band. A design for the 4 Gc to 5 Gc band resulted in a theoretical peak gain of 13 db when the gain at band edges was set at 11 db. Another design for the 5 Gc to 6 Gc range had a peak gain of 15 db."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Modern microwave diodes owe much to transistor techniques, materials, and understanding. In contrast to the older point-contact diodes, still universally used in microwave receivers, the new units operate by means of a variety of new principles which were not available until transistor techniques were applied."
"A paper accepted for presentation at the 1964 International Solid State Circuits Conference describes a two-stage, L-band parametric amplifier with a gain of 19 /spl plusmn/ 0.25 db over a 20% band, and a 1.5 db noise figure in the 15% band of interest. The achievement of maximum performance in a parametric amplifier of this type depends critically upon the characteristics of the associated circulators. It is felt that a discussion of the techniques used in the design of the circulator package for this amplifier might prove helpful to other designers in the field."
"There has been increasing interest in the past few years in methods for obtaining microwave power derived for vhf sources by means of single-stage multipliers of higher harmonic order. While such a method is less efficient than a cascade of varactor doublers and triplers, the reduced complexity and increased versatility will often mitigate the additional vhf drive power required. A single-stage high-harmonic-order multiplier usually consists of an input matching network and output cavity or bandpass filter. The input and output of single-stage multipliers are usually terminated with linear loads, whereas varactor chains are often difficult to align due to the nonlinear interaction between stages. An additional advantage of the single-stage multiplier is the possibility of employing prime harmonic numbers."
"The appeal of a phased array antenna is well recognized in the search for a radiator whose power is not limited by the finite capacity of its component subradiators--only their number--and whose beam may be steered at high speeds and even subdivided into multibeams. Numerous methods are proposed to control the phase of the coherently energized subradiators and thus steer their resultant beam. Microwave, two-port, electronically switchable phase shifters used in series with one or more radiator elements and using PIN switching diodes for control are frequently recommended. Previously, the problems in implementing such a device have been the achievement of high power capability and low insertion loss."
"Summary form only given. This paper reviews the latest solid state techniques in terms of oscillators, amplifiers, detectors, switches, and limiters."
"The reflex klystron oscillator is very widely used as a frequency-modulated oscillator in modern microwave radio links for telephone and television communication systems."
"A narrow-band waveguide switch has been designed in WR-137 waveguide which will handle a power level in excess of 8 watts. When passing a signal, this switch has an insertion loss of less than 0.5 db, but when it is \"turned off\" it has an insertion loss of greater than 80 db over a minimum bandwidth of 10 Mc. The switch is designed using PIN junction diodes in band elimination filter sections."
"The recent emergence of diode phase modulators makes certain systems realizable which were previously impossible or impractical because of the high modulation power required to obtain high-speed phase control. Systems benefiting from this new diode phase shifter technology include high-speed electronic antenna scanners and phase modulation RADARs. It was as part of an effort to develop a video frequency phase modulated RADAR that the task reported here was undertaken. The system requires a phase shifter that can be switched between 0/spl deg/ and 180/spl deg/ phase shift in 20 nanoseconds or less. The amplitudes in each phase state must be equal and the switching transient should be small. Additional flexibility is allowed the system if the phase shifter is broadband. Other requirements on the phase shifter such as power limitations depend on the diode, and are not considered here. The purpose of this task is to find a suitable technique to satisfy the system requirements using presently available diodes. The new technique reported here has application to variable phase control as well as binary phase control."
"The circuit shown in Fig. 1 has the useful property that the impedance looking into the input remains matched if the two outputs are terminated in matched loads regardless of the value of Z, whether it be reactive, real or even negative. This statement is conditional on the requirement that the value of Z be identical in two locations. The division of power to the two outputs is not independent of Z but is controlled by it. Obviously, if Z is reduced to zero, output #1 will be shorted out and no power will appear at that port. In the converse, if Z is infinite, output #2 is shorted out by the open-circuited quarter-wavelength stub."
"The TR Tube Dilemma. The present-day TR tube, through constant improvements, has approached a point where basically all parameters, with the exception of one or two, can be optimized. The designer, at best, can satisfy a specific rigid requirement only at the expense of another. This typically involves a \"trade off\" in performance with respect to such characteristics as crystal protection, life, recovery time or power handling capability."
"Presents an index of the institutions whose authors' papers are published in the conference."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents a map of the conference venue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An exact method for the design of band-stop filters which adapts synthesis techniques due to Ozaki and Ishii is discussed. This method places no theoretical limit on the width of the stop-band, although, for practical reasons, different (but equivalent) circuit configurations are used for stop-bands of different widths.These configurations include a form having open-circuited shunt stubs separated by lengths of line; a second form using resonators which are separate from the main line but parallel to it, so that coupling takes place by way of fringing fields; and a third form in which the resonators are attached directly to the main line, but are folded parallel to it so that coupling is both by direct connection and by fringing fields. Easy to use formulas are given for the exact design of band-stop filters from low-pass prototype filters and equations are given for converting from one form of filter structure to any of the other equivalent forms. The experimental results of trial designs are presented."
"A means has been found which enables one to make negligible the complicating effects of posts and shunting cartridge capacitance usually present in microwave diode circuits. This simplification permits the representation of the diode by a simple equivalent circuit and the determination of the effective diode parameters from transmission measurements. Parameters so obtained at X band (8.2 to 12.4 Gc) are compared with audio frequency bridge measurements. Measurements at M band (50-60 Gc) of a new 800-Gc cutoff frequency varactor are also described. This varactor has zero bias junction capacitance in the 0.016 pf range and spreading resistance on the order of 12 /Spl Omega/. It is expected to extend the useful range of parametric devices well into the millimeter region."
"Two tunnel-diode amplifiers for the frequency ranges 2 to 3 Gc and 3 to 4 Gc are combined with hybrids and low-pass filters to provide an octave bandwidth amplifier. The amplifier design is based on band-pass filter techniques. The gain exceeds 10 db over this band with noise figure better than 4 db."
"Microwave breakdown near a hot surface in a waveguide system was studied to determine its dependence upon the thickness of the adjacent film of hot gas and its associated temperatures. The effect of the variation of the film thickness with the flow rate of the bulk of the gas was of particular interest. To carry out the theoretical analysis, a more general breakdown equation was derived to account for the temperature gradients. Experimental results supporting the theory also are presented. The study shows that, although the breakdown threshold of a waveguide system is lowered by the presence of a hot surface, a sufficiently rapid flow of the bulk gas tends to restore the threshold as a result of the reduction in the thickness of the film of hot gas. This effect occurs in addition to that reduction resulting from cooling the surface."
"The use of a focussed Fabry-Perot resonator at microwave frequencies for plasma diagnostics is discussed. It is shown theoretically that improvements in sensitivity in the measurements of the properties of transparent plasmas and dielectrics of two to three orders in magnitude can be expected. Losses have been neglected. It is indicated that under certain circumstances, refractive index changes in the gaseous environment may be significant. A method of measuring these changes is included. The extension of these techniques to the optical part of the spectrum is discussed and is shown to be promising. Experimental results, obtained with the use of a cavity at 70 Gc, are presented and appear to confirm the main predicted features."
"A detailed account is given of the experimental investigation which has led to the design of 4-port circulators at frequencies from 2.5 to 25 Gc. The complex behaviour of these devices is clarified by establishing the modes of circulation in any particular waveguide passband. The modes are defined in terms of the static magnetic field (H) required, the microwave frequency (f) and the direction of circulation. The shape of the mode characteristic depends upon the ferrite/brass configuration in the center of the junction and the mode charts are given for two possible ferrite arrangements. The fixed-field bandwidths of the two configurations are, respectively, 2-4 per cent and 4-8 per cent. The performances are: isolation (ports 1-4) >20 db, cross-coupling (ports 1-3) >20 db, VSWR <1.2 and insertion loss (ports 1-2), respectively, <0.5 db and <1.0 db for the two configurations. The tunable bandwidth depends upon the mode of circulation and varied from 5 to 15 per cent. The positions of the modes in the waveguide pass-band can be adjusted by changing the diameter of the center ferrite/brass post. This shifting of the center frequency is described in detail for both ferrite arrangements and, for particular modes of circulation, figures are given of the frequency shift per 0.001\" change in ferrite and brass diameter."
"In this investigation, an entirely different approach is taken toward the development of a \"self-stabilized\" paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectrometer system which eliminates the usual low-power klystron oscillator, electronic frequency stabilizing equipment, and the complex superheterodyne detector without sacrificing loss of detection sensitivity. This system which is known as an oscillator spectrometer consists of a microwave amplifier containing a sample-carrying network element in the positive feedback loop. The microwave device oscillates at the network's central resonant frequency with essentially instantaneous frequency stability. Expressions relating the change in power level and frequency of oscillation as a function of the change in the network attenuation and phase at magnetic resonance are derived. The system's ultimate sensitivity is determined by analyzing the noise within the oscillator loop. In general, the noise that limits the detection of the resonance signal is principally that generated by the amplifier, and thus a simple video detector can be used. The sensitivity of this spectrometer was found to be comparable with that of the conventional bridge type spectrometer."
"A conceptually new type of contactless multichannel rotary waveguide joint is described. Power handling capability without pressurization exceeds that of the associated waveguides. Electrical features include elimination of impedance and phase variations with rotation, exceptionally low loss and power leakage. Operation is possible over a 10 per cent frequency band with a maximum VSWR of 1.15. Experimental results on a C-band model are given. Both electrical and mechanical design features are presented for a compactly folded design for operation at multimegawatt peak powers."
"An exact design procedure for band-stop filters is used to design a transmission-line filter with one point of perfect match at a fundamental frequency and one point of infinite attenuation at a harmonic frequency. This design method is based on the mapping of the response of a low-pass prototype into that of a transmission line filter. Here a three-element Chebyshev filter is chosen as the prototype and the otherwise general procedure is adapted for the special case of rejection of the second harmonic."
"The simplified boundary-value problem of the circular strip-line Y-circulator is stated and, following experimental results, is solved approximately. The circulation parameters are calculated and discussed. The frequency characteristics are evaluated and a general method for broadbanding the device is presented. From the calculated and measured field distribution, an explanatory description of the circulation mechanism is given. Finally, other possible solutions and the features for use at UHF are discussed."
"A theoretical study of the properties of \"constant-phase\" two-ports is presented which leads to a simple experimental synthesis technique for a broad class of microwave band-pass filters. \"Constant-phase\" two-ports consisting of modified step-twist-junctions are employed in experimental multiple cavity direct-coupled filter configurations which have the unique property of continually adjustable bandpass characteristics and fixed center frequency. These experimentally obtained characteristics are predicted from the theory."
"Proper design of the diode-resonating circuit is seen to be extremely important if large bandwidth is desired in a varactor-diode parametric amplifier. Cases where there is one resonance of the diode-resonating circuit at a frequency between the frequencies of the signal-input and the sideband resonances are examined in some detail. It is shown that the frequency of this intermediate resonance can greatly influence the bandwidth capabilities of an amplifier design, and the optimum frequency for such a resonance is given for upper-sideband up-converters. The optimum frequency of such a resonance is greatly different if the diode is resonated in series than it is if the diode is resonated in shunt. It is believed that the same results would also apply for lower-sideband up-converters and nondegenerate parametric amplifiers. Some upper-sideband up-converter designs were worked out and their computed responses are given including the effects of all of the parasitic elements of the diode. Bandwidths of the order of an octave are obtained. A systematic sign procedure is given for wide-band nondegenerate parametric amplifiers which use the diode parasitic resistance as the idler termination. Some designs of this type were also worked out and their computed responses (includlng effects of all diode parasitic parameters) are presented. Bandwidths as large as 33 per cent are obtained depending on the peak gain and operating frequency range."
"A general procedure for the design of multiplexer having contiguous channel frequency bands is presented. Using this procedure, the individual channel band-pass filters are designed from low-pass prototype filters having a resistive termination at one end only. The use of parallel-connected band-pass filters designed in this fashion, along with a susceptance-annulling network, is shown to be capable of giving a nearly constant input conductance across the operating band of a multiplexer. A three-channel design example using comb-line band-pass filters was worked out and its input admittance and attenuation characteristics were computed. This design was also constructed and tested. The computer and experimental results demonstrated the validity of the theory."
"Modem network theory procedures, based on Ozaki-Ishii synthesis techniques, are reviewed for application in the design of TEM mode microwave networks using parallel coupled bars and/or series and shunt stubs. The circuit equivalences and identities obtained are theoretically valid over the entire frequency spectrum and lead to several physical configurations having identical response functions. These equivalent circuits often allow simplification of the physicrd circuitry and realization of both broad and narrow bandwidths. The problem of practical circuit configurations is discussed from the viewpoint of bandwidth and circuit element values. Neglecting multiple responses, TEM low-pass, high-pass and band-pass butterworth filters are shown to offer steeper bandedge characteristics than those of corresponding lumped element filters. The use of complementary filters to match a source and load over a wide frequency range is outlined and TEM realizations of these complements are obtained. A simple procedure for obtaining element values of butterworth complements is described. An analysis of parallel coupled filters is made and a simplified equivalent circuit is obtained. An exact synthesis procedure for parallel coupled bar filters and their equivalent forms is given. Construction details and experimental results are described for two filters which use series stubs."
"A universal X-band waveguide detector has been developed which offers the possibilities of a broad-band untuned detector with a stable frequency characteristic. The wall-current detector is a reflectionless two-port with an insertion loss, less than 0.05 db, no extra phase-shift, a sensitivity of about 10 mv/mw and a frequency characteristic which repeats within /spl plusmn/0.1 db over the 8.2-12.4 Gc band for any 1N26. This performance made it possible to flatten the output of a Hewlett-Packard sweep oscillator (as seen by another wall-current detector) within /spl plusmn/0.15 db over the whole X band. As a result many frequency-dependent measurements can now be done automatically with reasonable precision. Plotters and reflectometers will be simplified, resulting in a higher precision. Circular and ridge waveguide types have also been made. The latter seems very promising for an ultra broad-band detector. A sum detector and a difference detector have been made. They can be used for phase-sensitive detection, zero measurements, etc. The wall-current detector can easily be scaled down to mm waves."
"Equivalent expressions for the electric permittivity and magnetic permeability tensors of artificial dielectrics are derived. These are expressed as functions of particle dimension, shape and density and also as a function of the incident electromagnetic beam direction with respect to the orientation of the particle. Only the case of a uniform density of equally oriented particles is considered. The results are valid in first order for prolate and oblate spheroids. Spheres and dieks are obtained as limiting cases."
"The cavity consists of a half-wavelength or wavelength of strip-line, short-circuited at both ends, and open along the sides. For measurements of dielectric and magnetic properties of samples, it has two apparent advantages over the more usual coaxial line method: the sample is simpler in shape, and it can be inserted without dismantling the cavity. Perturbation formulas are obtained for the frequency shift and change of \"Q\" on inserting a sample into a position of zero electric or zero magnetic field. The \"Q\" of the cavity in the absence of a sample is calculated by a perturbation method. The limiting sample size for a given accuracy to be obtained is also discussed."
"Mathematical analyses of multisection coaxial cavities predict the possibility of shifting one of the spurious resonant frequencies (present in all coaxial cavities) to a desired frequency, thus allowing one cavity to do the work of two. The specific problem considered in this paper is the design of cavities to resonate a terminating capacitance (e.g., tube capacitance, \"varactor\" capacitance) at two harmonically-related frequencies, with the additional requirement that the two frequencies remain very nearly in the desired ratio despite wide variations in the magnitude of the terminating capacitance. (As one obvious application, a cavity meeting these requirements would make possible an inherently-aligned single-cavity frequency multiplier.) Curves based on computed results for specific cases are presented. Experimental cavities constructed according to the predicted designs have exhibited performance which is in very close agreement with the analysis, thus verifying both the validity of the method of analysis and the feasibility of the desired result. Application of the same techniques to other and more general problems (e.g., single-cavity mixers, voltage-tunable filters) are suggested."
"In this communication, a review of the noise performance of traveling-wave masers (TWM) is given. It is shown in particular that when the gain per unit length of structure is low, the equivalent noise temperature of the TWM can become appreciable."
"When building a crystal frequency multiplier to generate harmonics in the millimeter region, one may improve conversion efficiencies by one of two basic techniques: selecting an improved nonlinear junction, or improving the physical and electrical environment of that junction. This communication will describe an in-line frequency multiplier designed to facilitate changing semiconductors and whiskers to evaluate their efficacy in generating the third and fourth harmonics of a 22-Gc drive signal. In addition, the test results on several different semiconductors will be presented."
"J. H. Richmond has given the WKB solutions for the field distribution of surface waves on inhomogeneous, isotropic, plane layers. It is the purpose of this letter to extend his work to include a simple anistropy in the dielectric constant by considering a diagonalized relative permittivity tensor with components /spl epsi//sub x/(x), /spl epsi//sub y/(x), and /spl epsi//sub z/(x). The geometry is the same as before except that a perfectly conducting plane is now positioned at x = 0. For easy reference we have used the same notation as Richmond, except where specified otherwise. Compactness in notation has been achieved by expressing the integrations from 0 to x and by considering the x variations outside the slab to be exp {-a(x-a)}."
"The Michelson type, Fabry-Perot type interferometers are often used in the field of ultramicrowaves; the latter replace conventional cavity resonators in the millimeter, submillimeter wave rauge."
"The following correspondence is a report of the experimental results that have been obtained with a single-varactor-diode frequency multiplier. This circuit is a times sixteen ( x 16) single-stage varactor multiplier operating from 350 to 5600 Mc. The high efficiencies predicted theoretically for singlestage, high-order varactor multipliers are now being achieved with these practical circuits. They should have wide application in microwave systems where reliability and size are major considerations."
"The purpose of this communication is to report a unique method which eliminates difficulties encountered when observing a microwave pulse of high energy transmitted through a plasma. It has become increasingly important to observe the characteristics of low-pressure plasmas being irradiated with high power microwave pulses. Knowing the time dependency of electron density during the time in which the high power pulse is irradiating, the plasma gives an insight into recombination, diffusion, degree of ionization, etc."
"Nag and Das have recently made a theoretical study of microwave propagation in a semiconductor-filled rectangular waveguide when the semiconductor has a time dependent carrier density. They have assumed /spl epsi/ and /spl sigma/ to be time dependent in the wave equation for the TE/sub 01/ mode wave and obtained a solution for the electric field E/sub x/ by perturbation techniques for small changes in carrier density. An equivalent propagation constant can be obtained for Germanium and Silicon by solving the wave equation for E/sub x/, assuming no time variations in /spl epsi/ and /spl sigma/, and then later inserting their dependence. This is an implicit physical assumption in an earlier work of Jacobs, et al."
"The following paper is felt to be of interest to workers in the microwave measurements field: B. E. Rabinovich, \"Method free from mismatching errors for measuring the loss of attenuators, \" Izmeritel'naya Tekhnika, no. 3, pp. 44-47; March, 1962."
"In the course of designing band reject filters, one must often determine the unloaded cavity Q(Q/sub u/) required to achieve a predetermined maximum rejection. This situation is analogous to that of determining the Q/sub u/ required to give a specific midband loss (due to dissipation) in bandpass filters."
"A gated traveling wave amplifier or klystron amplifier can be used to produce pulses from an essentially CW source. In the case of the TWT amplifier, rise times as short as a few millimicroseconds have been observed. This communication points out how millimicrosecond RF pulses have been produced using an inexpensive mercury contact switch installed in the center conductor of a coaxial line. The first use of a mercury contact switch for discharging a transmission line to generate rectangular dc pulses was reported by Garwin. Such pulsers based on this switch are now commercially available. With an appropriate transmission line configuration using the switch in the center conductor, RF pulses can be generated from a CW source. With reference to Fig. 1, the switching element from a Western Electric 276 mercury contact relay was removed and installed in the 3/8-inch center conductor of a 50-/spl Omega/ rigid transmission line. The active element of the switch is caused to move from one set of contacts to the other by a 60 cycle magnetic field. Fig. 2 shows the complete assembly. Reading from the bottom up, we have, first, the switch assembly, with a solenoid for actuating it, connected to an RF generator; then a section of variable length line so that a current maximum of the standing wave pattern may be placed at the switch contacts; then a section of line with a side arm T for the output signal; above this is a variable short."
"In reviewing the literature on the subject of modulated surface wave antennas, we came across the paper \"Propagation on Modulated Corrugated Rods\" by C. C. Wang and E. T. Kornhauser in which the authors study, both theoretically and experimentally, slow-wave propagation on modulated corrugated rod structures excited in the circularly symmetric TM mode."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"The International Conference On Microwaves, Circuit Theory, and Information Theory, will be held at the Akasaka Prince Hotel, Tokyo, Japan, from September 7-1 1, 1964. The Conference is sponsored by the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan, with support from a large number of other organizations including the IEEE and URSI."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Wentzel, Kramers and Brillouin (WKB) approximation is used to solve the wave equations for propagation of guided waves in rectangular waveguide containing an inhomogeneous dielectric. The simplest form of anisotropy is used to characterize the relative dielectric constant, i.e., it is assumed that the relative permittivity tensor is diagonalized with respect to the waveguide coordinants. Each of the elements of the relative permittivity tensor is allowed to vary continuously across the broad dimension of the waveguide. The TE/sub nm/ and TM/sub nm/ cases are analyzed for the instance of completely filled guide, while the TE/sub no/ modes are considered for slab-loaded guide."
"Thin-film bolometers have been developed for measuring the total (unwanted) power that could be transmitted in any or all possible modes and at many frequencies above the normal operating band. The bolometer is a thin metal film which is placed so that it intercepts all the power flowing down the waveguide. When the power in the fundamental frequency is filtered out and only power at higher frequencies remains in the waveguide containing the bolometer, then it can be used to measure the total spurious power emitted by a high-power transmitter above its fundamental frequency band. Measurements have been made up to 15 Gc in S-band waveguide. A variety of materials and shapes were tested and the bolometers were shown to be capable of measuring equally well several different modes and frequencies separately and in combination."
"The optical maser is treated in the manner of a Fabry-Perot resonator with an active medium. Five layers are considered: air, reflector, active medium (ruby), reflector, and air. General equations are derived using the method of boundary value problems in which it is assumed that incident coherent radiation falls normally on the surface. It is suggested that the presence of lossless one-quarter wavelength reflectors will enhance the amplification of the device in that less pumping may be required for a given length of ruby. The role of the reflectors in oscillation conditions is shown to be of importance. Methods are indicated for the calculation of amplitude and phase for an idealized amplifier."
"This report describes how the useful (single-mode) bandwidth of circular waveguide can be significantly increased by using a smaller diameter with dielectric lining. The increased bandwidth results from an increase in the ratio of the cutoff frequency of the second, or TM-01, mode over that of the dominant, or TE-11 mode. A cavity test is described which permits the measurement of mode separation for any thickness of dielectric lining. A lining with a dielectric constant in the vicinity of 4 appears to be near optimum for maximum single-mode bandwidth. For a dielectric constant of 3.8 (fused silica), the greatest mode separation is obtained if the dielectric cross section has about 0.44 of the area of the entire cross section, in which case the useful bandwidth is about doubled (perhaps increased from 8 to 16 per cent, if the entire band is to clear the TE-11 cutoff frequency by 20 per cent). Over the useful bandwidth of such a waveguide, the guide wavelength may be calculated approximately by the simple waveguide formula in terms of the equivalent dielectric constant, as determined by the cavity measurement. Applications which would benefit from increased dominant-mode bandwidth in circular waveguide include rotary joints carrying circular polarization, rotary attenuators and phase shifters, and array radiators."
"Double frequency oscillation was observed in a waveguide mounted tunnel diode circuit, due to the frequency dependency of the waveguide's distributed parameters. A general analysis of the frequency dependent diode load is made and conditions of oscillation are formulated. The analysis is extended to a 1N3219A diode mounted in a tapered RG-52/U waveguide used as an oscillator. The load impedance to the tunnel diode is derived with the diode mounted at the center of the waveguide. A numerical example involving the RG-52/U waveguide mount is presented verifying the existence of double frequency oscillation and exemplifying the oscillation conditions stated. Off center diode mounting is examined. It is concluded that the waveguide mount's distributed parameters are highly frequency dependent at the center of the guide and thus double frequency oscillation can exist when a tunnel diode is mounted at that point. With the diode mounted at any other point, only one oscillation frequency can be observed. The frequencies of oscillation of a waveguide mounted tunnel diode oscillator are determined only by the real roots of the resistive component of the total tunnel diode load impedance."
"The properties of the impedance and scattering matrix describing waveguide discontinuities are examined; both propagating and evanescent modes are considered. It is shown how different normalization conditions for the normal mode solutions in the guide affect the impedance matrix. A suitable choice of normalization always leads to a symmetric imaginary impedance matrix for a lossless structure. The scattering matrix is no longer symmetric or unitary.The simple relationship S=(Z- U)(Z+U)/sup -1/ is shown to hold only under special normalization conditions. Next the matrices describing a plane of lossless obstacles arranged in a periodic array are examined. A different type of normalization condition must be used here, since the normal modes are orthogonal in the conjugate sense (biorthogonal). Although the structure is reciprocal, none of the matrices is symmetric. A suitable normalization leads to a skew-hermitian impedance matrix and to a unitary submatrix of the scattering matrix corresponding to propagating modes."
"Surface waves guided along a metal rod which is surrounded by a concentric isotropic plasma sheath are investigated for both the principal and the higher modes by employing a rigorous formulation. It is shown that all these modes exhibit a high frequency cutoff phenomenon; the two first modes propagate down to dc, whereas all the other modes possess a finite low frequency cut off and thus exhibit band-pass characteristics. Backward wave propagation is shown to exist when the plasma sheath is thin; dispersion curves are calculated and compared with previous data obtained by means of quasi-static approximations whose limitations and inaccuracies are also indicated. All the results are derived for the plasmaclad rod being placed either in free space or in a dielectric medium, and the dispersion features for both situations are represented in terms of universal curves."
"Experiments with open periodic structures are presented which show a large change in transmission at the transition from allowed to forbidden regions. At the boundaries of the forbidden regions, the radial distribution of the fields of a wave impressed upon the structure changes from one corresponding to slow-wave propagation to a field distribution corresponding to radiation. At these boundaries, the local field shapes do not change very much. However, at the boundary a large decrease in transmission through the structure is found, but with little change in input VSWR; this implies a change from real characteristic impedance to about the same value of radiation resistance. This behavior suggests applications to sharp cutoff absorptive filters."
"The correlation radiometer is a system in which two antenna-receiver systems are employed, the outputs of the two systems being correlated electronically. This paper studies the two basic types of correlation radiometers, the intermediate-frequency correlation (IF) type and the video-frequency correlation (ENV) type. The SNR's, the minimum detectable temperature sensitivities, the effects of receiver gain and phase fluctuations and the uses of the two types are studied. A comparison of the various characteristics of the two types of correlation radiometers with the same characteristics of the Dicke-type radiometer is made."
"Two types of beam waveguides are discussed in this paper, the iris-type and the lens-type. Both appear applicable to guided long distance transmission of light with theoretical losses of less than 1 db/km. However, there are problems concerning their practicability which require experimental investigation. Such problems are the alignment of the irises or the lenses, the effects of turbulence and stratification of air along the light path, and the required tolerance in the construction of the lenses. Since the lens-type guide offers a simple possibility for compensating misalignments, an experimental waveguide of this type has been constructed, having a length of approximately 1 km and comprising 10 iterations. The light path is enclosed by a 4 inch aluminum pipe which is supported within a 6 inch aluminum pipe. The first series of experiments which is reported in this paper indicated that there are no serious alignment problems. However, it was found that the effects of turbulence and air stratification are usually very severe and it appears necessary to provide an evacuated light path to obtain constant transmission conditions. It was also found that the available lenses add considerably higher iteration loss than expected. This increased loss was primarily caused by inadequate surface coating. A theoretical study of beam propagation in a misaligned lens-type guide is included in the Appendix."
"The present paper describes theory and experiments on the observation of nanosecond carrier pulses in the microwave region. The advancement of microwave nanosecond techniques requires measurement of waveforms which is more accurate than conventional methods. The measuring method described here was developed to satisfy this requirement. The new method, using a synchronous or heterodyne detector, gives accurate and complete information on nanosecond pulse waveforms in the microwave region. Applying this method, we constructed an experimental system to generate and observe the nanosecond pulses in the 11-Gc region. The over-all rise and fall time and delay resolution of this system are as small as 0.5 nsec. Pulse modulators, detectors and filters were measured or adjusted with this experimental system. The experimental results are described in this paper. The pulse generation and observation system developed here is expected to be useful for measuring and adjusting microwave nanosecond pulse devices with accuracy."
"A hole in a common wall is used to provide coupling between two resonant cavities (k=coefficient of coupling) or between two waveguides (x or b=normalized reactance or susceptance) or between cavity and waveguide (p=loading power factor of cavity). Referring to either side of a thin common wall, the field intensity in the center of a small hole is 1/2 what it would have been at that location on the wall. Between two equal regions, the coupling (k, x or b) by magnetic or electric field is expressed as 1/4 the ratio of the effective volume of the hole over the effective volume of each region, by duality (Booker's principle), the effective volume (related to the polarizability) of an aperture in a thin wall is identified with that of an analogous thin body in a uniform field. For a resonant cavity loaded by coupling to a waveguide, the loading power factor is p=kx; this theorem is proved by reference to an equivalent network. Various cases of coupling by two-dimensional and three-dimensional fields are formulated in terms of area or volume ratios, especially between pillbox resonators (rectangular, circular, or coaxial-circular) and between rectangular waveguides with common side walls or top and bottom walls. The effective area or volume of a small hole in a thin conducting wall is given for various symmetrical shapes, in a magnetic or electric field."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"It is natural to pause, after a year as editor of these transactions, and to try to sum up what has happened, note any trends that seem to be indicated, and make some guess as to the future. In some cases, an observation time of one year is not sufficient to determine a trend. For example, the growth of the transactions as noted by the previous editor, D. D. King, in January 1963, seems to have leveled off, if one compares the 563 pages of 1963 to the 624 pages of 1962. However, a similar drop occurred in 1961 with 596 pages compared with 692 for 1960."
"Tables are presented for the design of TEM-mode asymmetric multi-element coupled-transmission-line directional couplers, having a very broad-band Chebyshev equal-ripple coupling response. Coupler designs of 2 to 6 elements having bandwidths up to 20:1 and mean couplings of 3, 6, 10, 15 and 20 db are tabulated."
"A transmission line is made of a symmetrical pair of strip conductors, face-to-face, or a single strip parallel to a ground plane. The strip width is nominally greater than the separation, but may be somewhat less than the separation. The field configuration is evaluated by a conformal mapping procedure which gives a very close approximation in terms of ordinary functions (exponential and hyperbolic) rather than the exact solution in terms of difficult functions (elliptic). Computation procedures are given for synthesis or analysis, the former following more naturally from the derivation. For the transitional case of strip width equal to separation, the mapping approximation is found to leave a relative error of the order of 10/sup -8/, in the wave resistance or shape ratio. Simple, explicit, practical formulas are developed for practical use with slide-rule accuracy. Emphasis is placed on establishing and specifying the residual error of each formula."
"A tutorial exposition for the exact physical error limits due to mismatch for dissipationless attenuators is presented. The results given yield smaller errors than previous existing formulas due to the inclusion of the physical realizability constraint of passivity. Graphs are included for rapidly determining the largest error for a prescribed set of conditions. This work is based on an analysis prepared by D. C. Youla which had a limited circulation."
"The design of a tapered waveguide high-pass filter with very steep cutoff characteristics near the cutoff frequency and very low reflections for frequencies beyond the cutoff is studied on the basis of nonuniform or inhomogeneous transmission line theory. The complex input reflection coefficient due to the presence of a section of nonuniform waveguide is obtained through a new approach by formulating the problem in terms of a pair of coupled differential equations of forward wave and reflected wave with varying propagation constants and nonuniform coupling coefficients. The solution of the reflection coefficient appears in the form of an infinite series of integrals and can be reduced, for the case of very gentle tapering to the simple form of fourier integral previously obtained by others. The general solution thus obtained is valid even if 1) the tapering along the waveguide is not gradual, and 2) the tapered section is terminated in an arbitrary impedance. It is shown that among many illustrated simple trial functions of impedance variation along the taper, the exponential function raised to cosine square yields reflection characteristics with the steepest rise near the cutoff and the lowest reflections for all frequencies beyond the cutoff. The steep rise near cutoff frequency is phenomenal, since, for example, at the nominal cutoff of 55 kMc the reflection reduces to about -50 db within 0.18 kMc, i.e., the transition region from the stop band to pass band at -50 db reflection is only about 0.33 per cent of cutoff. The same design procedure for the high-pass filter can be used for waveguide transitions of extremely wide band and very low reflections."
"This paper describes a method for broad banding the matching transition from a low-dispersion transmission line to a high-dispersion iterated filter structure. A good match can be obtained over essentially the entire pass band of the filter structure. To accomplish this the band at the end of the structure is widened beyond both nominal cutoff frequencies. It is narrowed down to the regular structure bandwidth in a taper extending over a few filter elements. In the comb structure used for traveling wave masers, a return loss of 20 db (VSWR = 1.2) or better is realized over 90 per cent of the pass band with a taper including four comb fingers. Several examples of suitable taper designs are given. Each of these, however, requires empirical adjustment in order to produce an optimum match."
"This paper discusses some recent experimental results obtained using special gallium arsenide point-contact diodes for the generation of phase-locked carrier pulses in the microwave and millimeter-wave bands. Several methods of generating such pulses are described. 11.2-Gc microwave phase-locked carrier pulses of about 1.0-nanosecond base duration have been generated at a 160-megabit/second rate. These microwave pulses, which are generated directly from a baseband signal, normally have peak power levels in excess of 0.5 mw. Millimeter-wave phase-locked carrier pulses have also been generated at 56 Gc. These very high frequency pulses have a base duration as short as 0.25 nanosecond and occur at a 160-megabit/second rate. Furthermore, phase-locked carrier pulses have been generated at frequencies as high as 89.6 Gc. A simple method of generating nonphase-locked 0.3-nanosecond millimeter-wave carrier pulses directly from 1.92 gigabit/second rate baseband pulses has also been investigated. The experimental arrangement used to demonstrate the \"turn on\" and \"turn off\" principle of transient carrier pulse generation is described."
"The dispersion properties and the fields of electromagnetic waves are investigated for propagation in a stratified infinite medium. The stratification is characterized by a dielectric constant which, along one coordinate, is modulated sinusoidally about an average value. A systematic and comprehensive study is presented for the case of H modes for which the pertinent wave equation is in the form of a Mathieu differential equation. The modes and dispersion characteristics are analyzed in terms of a \"stability\" chart, which is customary in the study of the Mathieu equation. Results are obtained for an unbounded medium and for a waveguide filled with the modulated medium. Also, the reflection occurring at an interface between free space and a semi-infinite medium of this type is examined. In addition to these rigorous results for arbitrary values of modulation, simple analytical expressions are given for all of these cases where the modulation in the dielectric is small. It is shown that the fields are then expressible in terms of the fundamental and the two nearest space harmonics. The fields within a unit cell in the stratified medium are calculated for both small and large modulation and for frequencies up through the second pass band. It is of interest that the variation of the fields is not, in general, simply related to the variation of the dielectric constant within a cell."
"This paper discusses an analysis of a maser amplifier structure (developed at Hughes Research Laboratories) consisting of a cascade of iris-coupled /spl pi/ / 2 cavities intermixed with isolators. Starting from the basic media susceptibility, narrow-band equivalent networks and matrix representations are derived for maser and isolator cavities. A rational function approximation to the over-all gain function is thereby derived by matrix methods. From one viewpoint, the over-all amplifier may be regarded as a negative-resistance inverse-feedback amplifier. The key design parameter is shown to be the isolator roundtrip attenuation. Excess isolation yields an overly rounded gain-frequency characteristic, while deficient isolation yields a characteristic with excess ripple or instability in the extreme cases. The feedback effects associated with intermediate \"optimum\" values of isolation reduce the effective gain per cavity below the normal gain of a single cavity, but in return one obtains a reduced gain sensitivity which may be reduced to a value comparable to or lower than that of the pure traveling-wave maser."
"The experimental design of an X-band microwave maser amplifier which uses a new type of slow-wave circuit is described. A detailed theoretical analysis of the circuit is presented in a companion paper. The slow-wave circuit consists of a cascade of iris-coupled ruby resonators separated by garnet isolators. This unit provides significant reduction in size and weight over previously reported maser slow-wave circuits. The microwave properties of the solid ruby resonator are treated in detail, and the passive bandwidth of the single transmission cavity and its relation to the iris susceptance are shown. Experimental techniques involved in obtaining and measuring precise iris susceptance are presented. A step-by-step procedure for designing an amplifier having a given gain and tuning range is also presented. Typical performance characteristics include a gain of 30 db, instantaneous bandwidth of 25 Mc and a noise temperature of 15/spl deg/K. An electronic tuning range of 200 Mc has been achieved in one configuration with a 20 db gain and a 25-Mc bandwidth. The weight of the maser-dewar unit, filled with 6 liters of helium for 24 hours of operation is less than 40 pounds. The design of the dewar enables the cryogenic system to work over a wide range of vertical angles, thus facilitating the use of the maser at the feed of a large steerable antenna."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A feasibility study was made on a TE/sub 01/ mode circular waveguide resonance isolator at frequencies near 35 Gc. A design was developed which utilized circumferentially oriented and magnetized thin rings of hexagonal ferrite material in contact with the inner or outer surface of a ring of alumina ceramic mounted concentrically in the waveguide. Approximate experimental measurements indicated that appreciable nonreciprocal attenuation could be obtained without severe degradation of the mode purity. Expressions are given for the field distributions in the dielectric ring loaded wave guide and for the ellipticity of the magnetic fields at the surfaces of the ring. Magnetic field ellipticity is computed as a function of a \"slow-wave mode\" cutoff constant for an experimental ring configuration. For sufficiently large values of this constant, the magnetic fields at the boundary are almost circularly polarized and are relatively independent of mean ring radius. The analytical results tend to support the experimental findings."
"A general method is proposed to analyze the properties of optical systems composed of several coupled resonators. It is shown that by using appropriate matrices to represent the fields in the resonators and the couplings between them, an equation can be written, often by inspection, for the eigenvalue s=/spl sigma/+j/spl omaga/ which gives the frequency and the rate of growth of the fields for all the modes of a given system. A re-entrant coupled system with loss and gain regions is discussed as an example. The effects of changes in mirror transmission, resonator length and medium properties are studied using the method."
"The characteristics of a traveling-wave maser using ruby and a Karp-type slow-wave structure in the X-band frequency range are presented. Several possible operating points in ruby in this frequency range were examined and the inversion ratio, linewidth, paramagnetic absorption, and electronic gain at these points were measured. The experimental results are compared with the theoretical predictions. The problems involved in the design of the traveling-wave maser are discussed and the performance that may be expected of a maser using good ruby crystals, a well matched structure, and sufficient pump power is evaluated. Experimental results on YIG slabs employed in the maser for isolation are presented and compared with theoretical predictions."
"Chevyshev's procedure for determining equal-ripple rational functions with preassigned poles is extended to functions with double-valued singularities. As long as the number of elements is small, design equations for the class of transmission-line filters consisting of shunt-resonant elements spaced a quarter wavelength apart are readily obtained by identifying the unknown coefficients with those of the desired equal-ripple function. This is carried out in some detail for three and four element filters and applied to the design of broad-band stub supports and quarter-wave-spaced broad-band TR tubes. Experimental confirmation is presented."
"A new type of traveling-wave maser (TWM) has been developed, employing the meander line as the slow-wave circuit and rutile as the active maser crystal. This amplifier has achieved net gains in excess of 23 db across the band from 2.0 to 3.0 Gc, with an over-all noise temperature of 8/spl deg/ /spl plusmn/ 2/spl deg/K. This marks the first time that rutile with a dielectric constant of 220 has been coupled to a slow-wave circuit. The maser material exhibited inversion ratios of 10:1 and saturated at an input signal of -47 dbm. In addition to the maser work, a ferrite material investigation was conducted, which led to the development of a gadolinium substituted yttrium iron garnet (YIG) as the ferrite isolator. Various concentrations of the gadolinium in YIG were investigated as ferrite isolators at 4.2/spl deg/K and were found to have lower forward losses than pure YIG at S band."
"The normalized self and mutual capacitances of periodic, circular cylindrical rods located between parallel ground planes are presented graphically. The capacitances were determined by solving the appropriate integral equation by numerical methods. Charts of self and mutual capacitance are given for rod diameter-to-ground plane spacing ratios varying from 0.05 to 0.8 and for very small to very large spacings between rods. Accuracy of the data is believed to be generally better than 2 per cent for the normalized mutual capacitance and generally better than 1 per cent for the normalized self capacitance. An approximate design method is also presented that permits using the data to synthesize filters (such as interdigital and comb-line filters) that require rods of nonequal diameters and spacings. An example of the design method is given, and a filter is constructed from the resulting data. The filter response was measured and found to agree closely with that called for by the theory."
"The paper describes a simple method of measuring the nonlinear properties of a ferroelectric material at microwave frequencies. A composition of commercial polycrystalline barium titanate, of stated Curie temperature of 20/spl deg/C, and of polythene powder was investigated. The incremental permittivity of the specimen at both increasing and decreasing biasing field was observed at X, C and S band. The effective dielectric constant of the specimen, for the same biasing field, was lower for increasing field, contrary to the theoretical analysis. Diamond's model of polycrystalline ferroelectric materials provides a qualitative explanation for the observed anomalous behavior of the specimens. An experimental arrangement for the observation of the microwave equivalent of a low-frequency ferroelectric loop is suggested."
"In this paper a type of beam waveguide which uses appropriately shaped metal reflectors instead of dielectric lenses as the phase correcting devices is described. A theory has been developed which, subject to certain restrictions, describes the modes of this type of beam waveguide and predicts a loss of the order of 0.01 db per iteration. A reflecting beam waveguide comprising eight aluminum reflectors has been investigated at a wavelength of 4 millimeters. The measured loss per iteration is approximately 0.015 db which is in good agreement with the theoretical value. The cross-sectional electric field distribution has also been measured and found to be in satisfactory agreement with the theory. It is shown that the reflecting beam waveguide is a practical system for the transmission of power at submillimeter wavelengths."
"This paper presents the theory and analysis of a ganged pair of \"line stretcher\" microwave phase shifters. The error analysis shows that some of the errors inherent in a single phase shifter of this type can be reduced through the use of a differential system; however, the magnitudes of other errors may more than offset the reduction. Graphical data are included to facilitate the rapid determination of the limit of error for any specified angle measurement."
"The single-tuned bandwidth and limiting flat bandwidth of a nondegenerate reflection-type diode parametric amplifier is calculated. The amplifier has a broad-banding filter structure in the signal circuit and a single-tuned idler circuit. An experimental low-noise, wide-band Z-band amplifier is described, and measurement results are presented. The amplifier has a triple-tuned signal circuit and a single-tuned idler circuit and is pumped at 11.3 Gc. A nearly flat bandwidth of 23 per cent at 7 db gain and an effective input noise temperature of 70/spl deg/K at room temperature ambient and of 29/spl deg/K at liquid nitrogen (77/spl deg/K) ambient has been obtained."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"W. K. Kahn, New Associate Editor and Call For Papers 1965 MTT Symposium"
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The characteristic impedance of rectangular coaxial transmission lines can be readily and accurately computed by a simple equation when the capacitance per unit length is known. While the capacitance per unit length of the parallel sides is easily calculated, the calculation of the corner capacitance is a more difficult problem. This problem has been solved by Skiles and Higgins, using orthonormal block analysis. By using their formulas, the corner capacitances for a wide range of all variables were evaluated by means of a digital computer. The results are cataloged in graphical form."
"The Suhl and Walker approximation for the propagation constant of the quasi-TEM mode in ferrite-filled parallel plane waveguide has been applied to the ferrite-filled coaxial line. The approximation is compared to exact solutions for a coaxial line filled with a lossless ferrite with close agreement. The propagation constant of the quasi-TEM mode is determined by measuring the complex reflection coefficient of a plane ferrite-air interface. The /spl alpha/ and (/spl beta/ are compared to the Suhl and Walker approximation with losses, and qualitative agreement is found. In order to relate the measured values to the propagation constants, the boundary value problem of the reflection from a plane ferrite-air interface is investigated. Expressions are derived which relate the real and imaginary parts of the propagation constant in the ferrite to an approximation to the complex reflection coefficient of the TEM mode in the empty line."
"The design procedure for optimum broadband negative-resistance amplifiers is given, by reference to the work of Fano, on the broadband matching of arbitrary impedances. Complete sets of curves are given which indicate the limits on the gain-bandwidth performance which can be achieved for a particular negative-resistance device, while also showing the ripple in gain and the resulting phase response obtained. The optimum amplifiers are also compared with others of the same class, and it is found that considerable advantage in terms of ripple and phase response can be gained by using nonoptimum designs in certain cases. The paper also includes explicit formula for the element values of the matching network applicable to both optimum and nonoptimum designs. A design example is given for a tunnel-diode amplifier."
"The exact method for designing band-stop filters in transmission lines is here adapted to design a four-element filter that is perfectly matched at a fundamental frequency and has infinite attenuation (theoretically) at the second, third, and fourth harmonics. The form of the filter is suitable for construction in TEM-mode strip transmission lines. How to obtain other combinations of three infinite rejection frequencies is also shown. Each filter is derived from a Cauer-type prototype network obtained from published tables of element values. The computed response of a test design is seen to be a precise mapping of the response of the prototype."
"The square of the complex transverse propagation constant in a lossy, magnetized ferrite is found to be described approximately by a circle in the complex plane when the magnetic field is varied. A graphical method for obtaining approximate values for the transverse propagation constant when the wave number in the direction of the applied field is given and real is derived here. This method is used to find The power absorbed from an incident plane wave by A semi-infinite ferrite as a function of the magnetizing field amplitude."
"A treatment of the excitation of unidirectional plane surface waves on a perfectly conducting screen covered with an anisotropic plasma sheath is given for the case in which the external magnetic field is oriented parallel to the screen but perpendicular to the direction of propagation. The dispersion relations for the surface waves and their dependence on the strength of the external magnetic field and the sheath thickness, are discussed. For sufficiently small sheath thickness, backward surface waves are found to exist. The powers carried by the surface waves and the space waves are evaluated, and the efficiency of excitation of the surface waves are determined as a function of sheath thickness for a typical set of parameters. The power carried by the forward and backward surface waves are compared for two cases in which, in a given direction, either one or both of these exist."
"A basic problem in the measurement of back-scattering cross sections is the separation of the desired target-scattered signal from the undesired background reflections. An additional problem may be the separation from the target-scattered signal of signals directly coupled from the transmitter to the receiver. Historically, these have been overcome in several ways: 1) a reference signal has been used to cancel the undesired signals when measuring a fixed target, 2) a reference signal has been used to override the undesired signals when measuring a rapidly moving target, and 3) an average curve has been fitted to data taken with a target at several positions. Two useful alternative techniques are described herein. A cancellation procedure performed while the target is slowly moving is shown to be effective in a much poorer environment than the static nulling procedure. The use of a reference signal to override the undesired signals is shown to be directly applicable to a slowly moving target procedure, thus simplifying the mechanical problems in measuring bulky targets. With a simple experimental setup, back-scattering cross sections 33 db below a square wavelength at 11 Gc can be measured at a range of 150 cm when transmitting 400 mw. These readings can be taken in an environment 20 to 30 db worse than that usually considered necessary for scattering measurements by the static null procedure."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Call For Papers"
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A pair of closely spaced dielectric prisms used as an adjustable bidirectional coupler has been discussed by a number of investigators. In its simplest form this device permits an adjustable arbitrary distribution of power output in two directions at right angles to one another. Reflections from the external air-dielectric interfaces change the power distribution from the theoretically computed values and resuft in power output in a third direction. This paper describes a theoretical calculation of the power transmission in all four directions taking into account reflections at all interfaces. Experimental data recorded at 35 Gc exhibit very good agreement with predicted results."
"A calculation of nonreciprocal coupling in microwave circuits with small ferrite samples tuned to ferromagnetic resonance is presented. It is shown that this coupling may be applied to the construction of simple resonant isolators, gyrators and circulators. Experimental results for the coupling in rectangular and ridge guides, applying YIG spheres, are presented. The construction of a simple X-band waveguide junction, acting as a 4-port resonant circulator, is described. Such a filter circulator, which may act as a switch or a frequency selective power divider, can be made tunable over the waveguide frequency range, with a bandwidth in the order of 10 Mc, and with values of insertion loss and isolation, which are comparable to those of conventional circulators."
"A Magic-T was designed using a 3-db asymmetric coupled-transmission-line directional coupler and a schiffman phase shift network. Expressions for the coupling and phase difference of the outputs of the basic coupler were obtained. Two phase shift networks for compensating the phase variation in the coupled outputs were investigated. The Schiffman phase shift network was shown to provide the best compensation over a given bandwidth. One unit designed in strip transmission line to operate from 2 to 4 Gc showed good agreement with the theory. The maximum difference in output power was 0.4 db, and the phase deviation was less than 4/spl deg/. The isolation between the input ports was greater than 25 db, while the isolation between output ports was greater than 21db throughout the entire band. Levy's design equations for a two-section asymmetric coupler with optimum coupling distribution are given for completeness."
"A synthesis procedure is developed for microwave band-pass filters with the Chebyshev response using orthogonal circuit resonators coupled by a ferrimagnetic resonator. A stripline ferrimagnetic resonator filter is analyzed in detail. Equations and graphs are given which allow the selection of ferrimagnetic material and size of the ferrimagnetic sample necessary to achieve a desired bandwidth and insertion loss for a given pass-band response. The theoretical behavior of these circuits as microwave power limiters is discussed and it is shown that the ratio of the limiting threshold to the filter bandwidth is a constant depending only on the pass band response shape. Experimental confirmation of the design information discussed as well as some practical methods of varying the limiting threshold."
"When a wave packet propagates in a guided mode subject to cutoff at a definite frequency, dispersion is always present. To restore the shapes of the wave packets at the receiving end, a proper delay equalization must be applied. Waves propagating in a waveguide tapered to cutoff dimensions are reflected mostly in a region where the dimensions are at cutoff. Accordingly waves of higher frequencies will penetrate deeper into the tapered guide and thereby introduce more delay than those of lower frequencies. A profile of a tapered waveguide is obtained for the case of linear delay on the hypothetical assumption that a wave is totally reflected only at the plane of cutoff dimensions. The problem of finding a proper profile is similar in nature to the inverse scattering problem in quantum mechanics. The complex input reflection coefficient introduced by a tapered cutoff waveguide is invariably unity in its magnitude for all frequencies below cutoff and has different phases for different frequencies. Presently available theory for computing the complex reflection coefficient is valid only when its magnitude is smaller than unity. A theoretical method to calculate with accuracy the phase of such unity reflection coefficient is presented. The linking section between the standard waveguide and the tapered cutoff waveguide is designed on the basis of a high-pass filter that introduces no appreciable perturbation to the prescribed delay characteristic. The excellent agreement between the theoretical results and measured data suggests that microwave delay equalizers can be designed \"on paper\" with \"measurement\" accuracy without even going to the laboratory. Accordingly the claim can be made that any reasonable amount of delay of simple shape within certain bandwidth limits can be equalized by the present approach."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"This paper discusses the use of liquid resin systems for potting, casting or encapsulating microelectronic devices. Subject matter includes discussions on epoxies, silicones, polyurethanes, polyesters and thermosetting hydrocarbons and their modifications. Discussed in detail are the large number of modifications possible in epoxies using a variety of curing agents, flexibilizers and diluents. The important properties of the subject materials are discussed in regard to their utilization in microelectronic devices."
"This survey deals with conduction mechanisms in thin films, both metals and dielectrics, in the thickness range between 10-6and 10-5cm and generally under 2-3 x 10-6cm. Conduction in metals with an island structure is discussed in terms of a thermally-activated process based on a model suggested by Frenkel. The model makes it possible to interpret the behavior qualitatively. Dielectrics exhibit a tunneling-like behavior and/or a Schottky-like behavior depending on thickness and temperature. Anomolous effects such as the negative resistance sandwich structure and gap structures with low work functions are also discussed."
"As part of the Electronic Component Reliability Center at Battelle Memorial Institute an experimental program has been initiated, the goal of which is to develop an approach to reliability prediction based on an understanding of the physical processes responsible for degradation of performance characteristics of electronic component parts. A modification of the Eyring rate equation, accounting for the effects of nonthermal as well as thermal stresses, is used as the mathematical model. The part type used in the experimental program is the ZJ 218-M silicon controlled avalanche rectifier. Nominally identical devices are subjected to various levels of temperature and electric field (dc reverse bias across the p_n junction) and time rates of change of electrical parameters are determined. As sufficient data become available, the constants of the Eyring equation will be determined and its utility as a prediction mechanism will be evaluated. At the same time, an analytical program is being carried out to relate the observed electrical parameters to causitive physical mechanisms. Thus, the constants of the Eyring equation are given meaning in terms of activation energies and frequency factors associated with the physical mechanisms responsible for the deterioration or aging of observable electrical characteristics."
"Current-voltage characteristics have been calculated for a structure consisting of two metal surfaces separated by a thin film of \"insulating\" material. The analysis includes both tunneling and thermionic emission, and takes account of dielectric constant and image force. Curves of current density vs field strength are presented for various values of barrier height and dielectric constant. Several comparisons of theory with experiment are given, and it is concluded that the theory overemphasizes the thermionic contribution."
"The problem of how to interconnect today and tomorrow's microminiature electronic circuit packages is one which is growing increasingly complex in view of the ever-diminishing size factor. It appears, however, that within a period of a few short years, many ingenious solutions to the interconnection problem have evolved. Some of these microcircuit interconnection techniques have proven their merit, while others are still under investigation. This paper describes twelve interconnection techniques, ranging from the relatively-simple soft soldering technique to highlyadvanced methods, such as electron beam welding and laser welding. An attempt has been made to present not only the mechanics of the various techniques, but to emphasize the materials, processes and equipment involved in each specific microcircuit interconnection method."
"The properties of available glass, ceramic and other substrate materials are reviewed in the light of requirements imposed by current practice in thin-film circuitry. Special substrate glasses and glazed high thermal conductivity ceramics appear to be best suited to the majority of applications. Techniques for evaluation of the smoothness of substrate surfaces are reviewed and procedures for cleaning glass and glaze surfaces are recommended."
"Present state-of-the-art emphasis has been placed on the use of silicon solar cells interconnected in series-parallel groups to form a solar array providing basic power for long lifetime spacecraft (perhaps greater than 3 months). To assure that sufficient power will be available to operate equipments during the specified mission time, a reasonable margin must be designed into an array to compensate the degradation of power output due to catastrophic failures and environmental degradation effects. The degree to which these effects can he compensated becomes atradeoff between weight, cost, and satellite lifetime - the time during which adequate power will be available to operate selected equipments. In this paper, the physics of solar cells, their operation, degradation due to radiation, and particularly random failure events are recounted. A generalized solar array configuration is presented and the effects of individual solar cell failures (in a random distribution) on the output are considered. A probabilistic technique for determining the distribution of failures is derived and the expected current output in a multiredundant solar cell configuration described. Some partical limitations are discussed throughout the paper and the analytical results applied to a sample array configuration."
"The time dependence of the failure rate of electronic parts and equipments has been strongly evidenced by recent data. Information is cited which reveals that for many devices failure rate not only is time dependent but is an inverse time function, i.e., decreases as time increases. The possibility that this property is inherent in many other parts and systems is hypothesized. The electronics industry will be confronted with new and perplexing problems when the non-constant failure rate is treated with realism. Reliability estimations (predictions) in the proposal stages for example, will involve new concepts in failure rate numbers which are no longer \"F\", but \"F(t)\". It is anticipated that these functions will be unwieldy. Useful data will be scarce for some time to come. This industry must develop improved reliability estimating and testing techniques to realize the benefits of this more accurate mathematical function, F(t). An important added capability, that of part improvement through long burn-in, will accrue for parts that are characterized by decreasing failure rates. Customers, in requiring part and subsystem suppliers to prove failure rates by test, in accord with Darnell Report2and AGREE Report1philosophies, should insist that the time dependence of failure rate be established. Industry-wide and government coordinated efforts appear necessary if we are to achieve data that will enable us to take our long-buried heads out of the sand."
"This paper is concerned with the resistance welding of various dissimilar metals, primarily component parts such as ribbons, leads, and cases to one another. The study was made and is being continued to improve production welding in the manufacture of aluminum electrolytic, and tantalum capacitors. Resistance welding is primarily used by capacitor production because it is a fast, economical process, which lends itself readily to automation. The welds associated with the higher conductive, dissimilar metals are not fusion welds, but can be described as solid state bonds. There are some inherent defects in the solid state bond that do not normally affect the fusion bond. These are: (1) crystal lattice defects such as vacancies, (2) crystal deformation, and (3) atomic size mismatch. In spite of these inherent defects, excellent AQL's can be expected, provided certain requirements are met. The requirements include an overall program of weld design, equipment, schedules, process control, and component design, materials, and material control."
"The construction of solid electrolyte tantalum capacitors is described briefly. The evidence for flaws in the oxide dielectric is presented and the leakage current flowing during the early stages of breakdown is discussed. A consideration of the variation of breakdown voltage with temperature and time of apolication of voltage leads to the conclusion that thermal breakdown is responsible for failure in the dielectric. A description is given of selfhealing and its significance is considered."
"A discussion is presented relating the electrical, optical and physical parameters of thin film capacitors. A study of silicon monoxide dielectric films has been conducted. Both the electrical and optical characteristics were investigated in a series of planned experiments. A relationship between dielectric constant, refractive index and the thin film vacuum deposition parameters of the dielectric films has been established. The results of these experiments have helped facilitate the fabrication of more stable and reliable components. The effects of component annealing are presented. Proper heat treatment of the device has yielded improved stability and reduced the dissipation of limited available power. The control instrumentation for the vacuum deposition of thin films is discussed. The optical measuring techniques employed to obtain refractive index and dielectric constant shall be presented. Both multiple beam and two beam interferometry have been utilized in these measurements."
"\"The Proposed IEEE Test Procedure for the Evaluation of Insulation Systems for Electronic Power Transformers\" is based on the principle of accelerated thermal aging. In order to accelerate the thermal aging sufficiently to accomplish the evaluation in a reasonable time, the test temperature is often higher than the chemical stability temperature of some of the components of the system. This instability may render the system unsuitable for the use of this test procedure unless a way can be found to reduce the effect to a usable level. One of the more commonly used materials of this type is cellulose. With suitable resins and adequate embedment techniques, which in - cludes thorough impregnation, cellulose (papers, pressboard, etc) has been demonstrated to give good service at temperatures well above the previously accepted maximum temperature of 105°C. In this situation, one or more of the test temperatures will be sufficient to cause limited chemical decomposition of the cellulose. This does not necessarily render the material ineffective as a dielectric and incapable of evaluation by comparison, but a by-product of this decomposition is water which is chemically liberated. The water thus produced must be eliminated as it forms, otherwise failures will result which are not truly due to thermal aging as encountered at normal operating temperatures. This paper describes a series of tests which established the need for special precautions and procedures in the thermal evaluation of sealed insulation systems containing appreciable quantities of cellulose. A modification of the test procedure is suggested as a practical solution. This modification is considered to have a minor effect on the test results and permits comparison evaluations which otherwise are not possible."
"Today corona measurements are used in many instances as part of testing electrical insulation materials and equipment. Also, corona tests are performed for other purposes The prerequisite for obtaining economical benefits from corona testing is a sufficient understanding of the nature of corona, its effects on materials and the performance of electrical systems, corona measurement techniques and their use in evaluating the performance of the tested objects. The factors which are the basis for success in making corona measurements are reviewed and recently published new information is presented about problems in specifying corona tests and test equipment, as well as evaluating test results. It is concluded, that more benefit can be derived from corona testing and that using it on a much wider scale than today is economically justifiable, if full use is made of the available knowledge about corona, corona measuring techniques and their use in insulation system evaluation, as well as of the remarkable flexibility modern corona test equipment offers for its use in other phases of electrical testing."
"This paper describes a study made on pulse transformers using ferrite and grain oriented steel cores. Characteristics studied are the saturation characteristics at -60 deg. C, +25 deg. C, and +130 deg. C, under a wide range of excitation levels. A set of curves suitable for predicting circuit performance under specified circuit and temperature conditions as well as examples of the use of these curves concludes the paper."
"An extensive evaluation program has been carried out on newly developed tantalum nitride thin film resistors that were specifically prepared for this purpose and which included several levels of four manufacturing variables, namely substrate material, film thickness, line width and anodizing voltage. Resistors were subjected to a series of non-destructive screening tests followed by severe environmental evaluation tests. Preliminary test results indicate that tantalum nitride thin film resistors with a high degree of reliability and stability can be commercially manufactured."
"The ability to join dissimilar materials having markedly different thicknesses (ratio of 50:1) is shown to be possible using a LASER. The feasibility of welding to thin films has been demonstrated by metallurgical examination of the welded connection. Welds were evaluated by visual inspection, macrosection, and microsection. Preliminary results of substrate studies indicate that unglazed alumina is a satisfactory material. LASER welding, having been demonstrated as a useful interconnection method, can be developed through additional investigation for extensive application to microelectronic circuitry."
"One of the major modes of failure in germanium alloy power transistors is collector diode degradation. It has been found that the time response of the collector diode, measured initially, is a strong indicator of later degradation failure. The \"0\" hour time varying characteristic of a potential failure is explained by a proposed model which involves an ionic charge separation phenomenon. This phenomenon involves the transient formation of an accumulation layer and an avalanche-limited breakdown of the junction near the surface. The proposed model suggests several process modifications which would reduce or eliminate conditions which result in degradation failure. Process improvements which were generated by this study and other related programs have resulted in a significant improvement of the degradation failure rate."
"A test program to evaluate soldered, welded and wire wrapped joints is described. This test program consists of a Stress-Survival Matrix Test and supporting exploratory tests. The general concept of a Stress-Survival Matrix Test is discussed and its potential use as a reliability prediction technique is investigated."
"This paper discusses the low frequency (less than 1 cps) and long time constant applications and testing of capacitors as used in analog control systems. Emphasis is placed on tantalum electrolyric types, as they provide the necessary volume efficiency for airborne systems. The effective capacitance is always larger at the low frequencies than at normal capacitance bridge measuring frequencies. The amount and predictability of the change varies with the rate of charge, the dielectric material and, in the case of tantalums, with the electrolytic system. The polar characteristics of tantalum capacitors introduce other problems, such as doubling the effective capacitance during the first cycle of applied voltage, and hybrid charging curves as voltage levels change. The cause of the increase in charge or discharge time with low rates of change applied is not known. It is apparently allied with the characteristic of dielectric absorption (voltage recovery after shorting the electrodes) in that those capacitors exhibiting the least dielectric absorption also show the least low-frequency sensitivitye Polarization of molecules or molecular chains in the dielectric and/or electrolyte is the probable cause."
"A two-section variable capacitor of novel design has been developed for use as a tuning element in a microelectronic superheterodyne receiver. The device consists of a ganged oscillator and RF section, both contained in a metallic cylinder 0.25 in. in diameter and 1.125 in. in length. Each section of this capacitor comprises: (1) an electrically grounded conductive screw, (2) a threaded insulating sleeve into which the screw fits, and (3) a conducting material surrounding the sleeve. In a typical capacitor, the capacitance of one section was variable between 0.75 and 8.0 pf and of the other section between 1.5 and 12.0 pf, the Q ranged from 224 at 10 megacycles to 190 at 20 megacycles, and capacitances remained within 1 percent of the set values over the temperature range -60 to + 80°C."
"The problem of \"storage\" of electronic parts and equipment first came into focus with the publication of the AGREE Committee Report on Task 8 in 1957. At that time, this problem was recognized as having important logistics connotations. For logistics planning, it was necessary to know what would be the failure rate of components and equipments when they were \"on-the-shelf\" for a long interval of time. Only general conclusions relating to gross equipments were given in that report. Since that time, most of the attention has been given to the development of operating failure rates, but with the development of new and more sophisticated systems, this problem of storage began to take on new dimensions and new significance. Storage, in addition to its meaning of \"on-the-shelf\" also had to be extended to include those components which were effectively \"stored\" within a piece of equipment. These are components which are installed as part of an operating system, but not subject to electrical stress and consequently are electrically inert. This is a key consideration - some of these components turn out to be highly critical - they aré inert but when required to operate they must operate or the mission could be aborted. It is for this reason that the storage problem becomes important. Since the Air Force has imposed the requirements of AFBM Exhibit 58-10 dated i June 1959 on Weapon System contractors, the behavior of equipments under storage conditions in this broad sense becomes a contractual requirement. Paragraph 4.7 of this Exhibit is clear when it states: \"The contractor shall conduct studies and tests to determine the effects of storage conditions on the reliability of his product etc.\" To satisfy this requirement a study was made to determine whether storage failure rates were available in the published literature. Specific quantized failure rates have rarely been determined or published, but some limited material for specific parts has appeared which can be used as a basis for the establishment of storage failure rates within magnitude boundries, i.e., 100 times or 1000 times better than active. The details of these source investigations and the method of performing the subsequent analyses are reported within the paper. Data for this study was obtained from Batelle Memorial Institute, Burroughs Co., RCA, The Martin Company, the AGREE report and the New York Naval Shipyard Materials Laboratory. A short bibliography listing additional qualitative information is also given for further investigations and study."
"Electronic part failures in operating systems are eventually traced to either (1) an assigned physical (time dependent) defect or (2) an inadvertent use of the part beyond its margin of safety as defined by conservative practices. Part failure rates are valid numerics only after the assurance of conservative application practices of a mandatory nature. The residual part application uncertainties contribute to part failure rates in a manner undistinguishable from the effects of physical defects. Thus, the underlying cause of part failures may be physical or communicative. Only the first of these factors lies in the technical area commonly referred to as \"physics of failure\". Both factors contribute to the experienced frequency of part failures and combined to produce distinct failure modes as expressed in meaningful statistical summaries. It has been determined that eight basic failure modes can account for the bulk of the physical risk factors reflected into (statistically expressed) electronic part failure rates. These essential categories correspond to the loss of the following operating functions, (1) connection (2) dissipation (3) insulation (4) dielectric (5) magnetic (6)rectification and gain (7) structural and (8) kinematic. Each of these functional demands can be identified in relation to primary, secondary and tertiary defects and used to construct part failure rate models. Example models are cited for the generic part classes called \"dielectric and dissipative devices\". Each of the eight basic part-failure modes given can be traced to an array of distinct industrial practices which foster the inherent risks developed. This risk traceability is provided by means of an inventory of reliability synthesis factors for using failure rates as elements of chance failure summations. While it is not claimed that the synthesis of electronic part failure rates is a simple matter of arithmetic risk summation, it is considered a key prerequisite to have an organized inventory of risk terms and factors to which meaningful numerical assignments can be made from an accumulated experience with material failure phenomena. Presented here are two basic interrelated inventories consisting of (1) a list of eight basic failure modes and (2) a \"genealogy\" of part failure risks for the life cycle of electronic parts from design conception to in-system utilization."
"A computer program has been developed that can be applied to screening potential failures from any group of components using an outlier technique. The program features flexibility in that the user can request any frequency cell size for the 16 three digit parameter positions available. It is equally possible to attempt screening from either high or low values for each parameter. A general cost model is presented which utilizes the computer output in determining the optimum economic screening level."
"The design and development of an allelectronic device which indicates bearing from local magnetic north is reported on. The device contains no moving parts and produces a d-c output voltage proportional to the bearing of a reference direction of the device from magnetic north. The sensing element of the compass consists of two thin magnetic films each of which contains a pumping coil and an output coil. When an a-c current is applied to the pumping coils an a-c voltage is developed in the output coil whose frequency is harmonically related to that of the pumping current and whose amplitude varies as H cos \\theta, where H is the magnitude of an externally applied magnetic field and \\theta is the angle between the external field and the axis of the output coil. By placing the two magnetic films in space quadrature and shifting the phase of the output voltages of the units so that the outputs are also in time quadrature, the output voltage of one unit will vary as H cos \\theta sin wt while that of the other will vary as H sin \\theta cos wt. The sum of these voltages will produce an a-c voltage whose phase shift depends upon \\theta, according to the trigonometric identity: cos \\theta sin wt + sin \\theta cos wt = sin (wt + \\theta). Detecting the phase shift of this signal will thus produce an output voltage proportional to the bearing of the magnetic field sensing element with respect to the external magnetic field. The method used in this device to detect this phase shift is to derive a series of pulses at the zero-crossings of the output voltage and apply these pulses to the \"set\" terminal of a bistable multivibrator. Another series of pulses derived from the zero-crossings of the pumping signal is applied to the \"reset\" terminal of the multivibratoro. The output of the multivibrator will then be a square wave whose duty cycle is proportional to the time interval between a \"reset\" pulse and the immediately preceding \"set\" pulse. Because these series of pulses are harmonically related, this time interval between the \"set\" pulse and the \"reset\" pulse will be proportional to \\theta, and thus the d-c component of the output of the multivibrator will be proportional to \\theta."
"The aging characteristics of thin film field effect triodes have been studied under humidity, temperature, and electrical stress. The device characteristics are very sensitive to humidity. In dry argon at room temperature the device characteristics did not change within six months. At constant elevated temperature between 50°C and 12l°C the transconductance of thin film triodes is almost constant for at least 50 days. The gate voltage at constant drain current and voltage increases during the first few days until it reaches a constant level again. Devices under electrical stress showed a similar behavior but the increase of the gate voltage continued for about 20 days. A tentative model is proposed for some of the failure modes."
"As a step toward achieving high volume, low-cost production of tantalum film circuits, a continuous tantalum sputtering chamber has been designed and tested. This device yields up to 800 high quality tantalum coated substrates per day, depending upon the film,thickness desired. Output can be increased by increasing sputtering power. The system features automatic feed of substrates into and out of the vacuum chamber without breaking the vacuum, thereby eliminating the inefficiencies of batch-type operation. Evaluation of sample substrates indicates a uniformity of sheet resistivity which is better than one percent across the surface of a given substrate. The sheet resistivity varies a maximum of ten percent between substrates."
"Experimental results on the electrical properties of thin-film resistors, thin-film capacitors and thin-film diodes made of titanium/ titanium oxide/metal layers are described. The conduction phenomena in the three-layer titanium/ titanium oxide/metal structure are explained on the basis of a p-n Junction and p-i-n junction within the anodically formed oxide films."
"A method is developed that enables the transformer designer to graphically present the total response of any transmission transformer. The method centers about \"Response Contours\" which are the loci of constant response on an impedancefrequency plane. The contours enable the designer or the user to apply a transformer anywhere within its entire region of useful response. This method differs from the conventional approach where a transformer is designed and characterized for a specific application, but by nature is capable of a wide range of application. Using \"Response Contours\", a previously coded transformer may be used in many applications thereby avoiding needless duplications of design. The contours may be easily and directly predicted from the conventional transformer equivalent circuit elements. The theoretical contours are very accurate for units with bandwidths exceeding one decade of frequency. The method developed here is applied to the complex transfer ratio, transformer loss and phase response for both matched and mismatched terminations. However, the concepts may be easily extended to reflection coefficient in the frequency domain and pulse response in the time domain."
"The availability of solid state operational amplifiers makes possible the design of quite compact synthetic circuit elements. These operational amplifiers can be used to implement negative impedance conversion, as well as the synthesis of inductance, capacitance, and resist- ance."
"Failure rates have been collected at the Royal Radar Establishment since 1944 and continuous records of failures in radar equipments undergoing environmental testing have been maintained. The effect of environment on failure rates was investigated as early as 1945 and M.T.B.F's of 116 hours in England and Europe, 61 hours in the Mediterranean and 18 hours in the tropics were obtained in that year. Later analyses show that severe environments (heat, vibration, etc.) give a ratio of about 25:1 over the failure rates of temperature controlled, shock isolated equipment. The results of analyses of component part failures under six different operating environments are given. A table of present failure rates to be expected from groundbased equipment at maximum component ratings is included. The present position on the effect of de-rating on reliability is outlined. The mechanism of failure of component parts is examined first in general terms and then under three headings: high humidity, high temperature and low temperature. Examples are shown of the types of failure experienced under these environments. The effect due to each environment and the probable mechanism of failure is tabulated."
"A phase of a program is discussed in which some failure modes of thin film circuit modules were determined. Data is presented on the temperature distribution across a substrate and a discussion of the life performance of these substrates is given. Results of the use of these substrates in a functioning circuit are summarized."
"Described herein are certain features of the microstructure of the palladium-silver-glass glaze resistor. Experimental evidence given indicates PdO to be a controlling factor in the conduction process. The effect of process variables on resistivity, TCR, and drift behavior under environmental stress are also discussed"
"The development of a unicrystalline silicon carbide thermistor with a combination of unique properties is described. The device has a useful operating range from -lOO°C to -300°Co The stability, retraceability and reproducibility which have been achieved recommend this sensor for some entirely new areas of application for thermistors."
"Design studies for the Improved Minuteman computer reveal the necessity for advanced microcircuit interconnection techniques in order to capture the potential advantages of integrated circuits. The development of a unique multilayer board concept is described in terms of such factors as design procedures; masking techniques; and fabrication, test and rework methods. With reliability as the dominant factor in all trade-off studies the significance of physical and electrical parameters is discussed as well as the influence of considerations of producibility, yield, and system constraints."
"This paper describes the early reliability investigation program conducted on regular production El-Menco dipped mica capacitors and covers a report containing an analysis of the raw data resulting from this reliability study. Discussed are the results of a reliability verification program performed on initial production Minuteman design dipped mica capacitors, and the unit-hours accumulated as a consequence of subsequent life testing additional production lots of these high reliability parts. The investigation of the voltage acceleration factor by R.C.A., the El-Menco method of reliability calculation, the predictions made of time to failure by employing the voltage acceleration factor, and the actual outcome of the investigation, are all described in detail. The meaning of all the unit-hours generated as a result of the R.C.A. Minuteman program, and the benefits derived from having participated in this high reliability program, are reviewed."
"This study involves the fabrication of tantalum-pentoxide capacitors by other than the conventional thermal or aqueous electrolytic techniques. A new method of dielectric formation is described, and some of the results of the measurements performed on the passive devices are presented. This plasma-anodic process is then compared to the aqueous anodic processes, with the emphasis upon the compatibility of dry anodization techniques to vacuum techniques for the deposition of metallic thin films."
"This paper describes the techniques used for, and the results obtained from, non-reactive and reactive sputtering of titanium to form resistor and capacitor elements by compatible processes. Unprotected resistor elements of low ohms per square attained stability on aging and yielded moderate values of temperature coefficient. Unprotected capacitor elements of 0.05 cm2area yielded an average capacitance of 0.015 \\muF or 0.30 \\muF/cm2., the temperature coefficient being between 2OO and 400 ppm/°C. The capacitance dropped very slightly as a function of frequency in the range 500c to 100kc. Typical dissipation factor was about 0.04 at 1 kc increasing to about 0.09 at 100 kc. Film uniformity and reproducibility have been established. Analytical methods used for studying the basic and structural properties of the films are reported."
"The reliability of evaporated thin films of nichrome 1OO to 2,000 angstroms in thickness when deposited onto a ceramic substrate can be related to the physical and electrical properties of the substrate. Through careful selection of materials that are physically and electrically compatible with these extremely thin films, reliability and volumetric efficiency of precision film resistors can be materially improved. Evaluation of commercially available substrate materials resulted in the selection of industrial sapphire as a most superior substrate material. Reliability was improved by one order of magnitude, and volumetric efficiency was increased by a factor of thirty. The evaporated metal film deposited on monocrystalline industrial sapphire exhibited a marked uniformity of characteristics within the lot, as well as between lots of precision film resistors. Temperature coefficient of resistance, voltage coefficient and noise factor characteristics for evaporated nichrome sapphire resistors were found to be superior over alkaline earth and high alumina ceramic precision film resistors produced under identical evaporation conditions. Because of the excellent thermal conductivity of industrial sapphire, electrical ratings ranging between 1/2 watt at 25°C through 1/20 watt at 125°C were achieved for cylindrical resistor rods O.105\" long x .050\" diameter as compared to MIL-R-10509 resistor styles with rectilinear envelopes four times larger. The industrial sapphire precision film resistors achieve remarkable miniaturization, economical advantages through higher production yields, reduced temperature coefficient of resistance characteristics and substantially greater reli- ability."
"An interconnection - packaging system -- Micro-Circuit-Module -- has been developed which is compatible with thin film as well as semiconductor integrated circuits. The system has evolved through the developmental stages and is now in the pilot production stage. The assembling and hermetic sealing of the module are carried out by automatic electron beam processes and associated transfer-indexing machines."
"A brief survey of fluorescence and phosphorescence in inorganic luminophors (phosphors) is presented. This includes a short discussion on the preparation and composition of phosphors, the role of the matrix, and a discussion of activators, charge compensators, and flux. The nature and significance of absorption and emission spectra are discussed. A general model of the mechanism involved in excitation and luminescence (fluorescence and phosphorescence) is presented."
"Many communications systems use 2-state devices for storage, processing, and multiplexing of information in binary form. Magnetic cores offer an efficient means of storing and processing such information because they need no standby power to hold the information in storage. Three separate but similar circuits are discussed, showing the internal operations of storage and shifting of binary bits in magnetic cores that are used as the memory units in the circuits. A typical application in time-division multiplexing of blocks of binary information is discussed."
"At high frequencies, the performance of printed circuits depends not only on the mechanical, thermal, and hygroscopic characteristics of the base material, but also on its electrical data. This article deals with the electrical quality of the base, evaluated by means of measurements made on samples of the material when forming part of the dielectric in a transmission line. The results of the study can be given by means of four apparent constants; characteristic impedance, dielectric constant, attenuation constant, and power factor. These constants are measured in the frequency range of 100---1000 Mc by a simple method requiring two instruments, a signal generator and a receiver with an output indicator. Since the formulas are simple, a quality evaluation of a base material can be performed in the course of a few minutes. The accuracy of the measurement proves to be better than expected, since the effects of errors in the measurement are balanced out to a great degree in the final results. After the method is checked by measuring lines with known characteristics, samples with different dielectrics are tested. Finally, the loss measured at relatively low frequencies is separated into its different components."
"A new photographic technique for use in the construction of photo and process masks will be discussed. The projection writing technique has been used to produce various masks which are comparable in characteristics and quality to those currently being made via contact and other photographic techniques within the microelectronic industry. The zero velocity writing method has produced process mask patterns with line boundary definition of less than 5 microns. Rectangular comers of photo masks projected light images having rounded comers with radii of less than 10 microns. Exposure time intervals of 2.0 to 4.0 seconds were used to produce useful process mask patterns. Projection writing techniques were used to produce complex micro-circuit-type photo masks using one-step reduction factors of 4.0 to 22.0. Writing velocities of 6.0 to 0.25 millimeters per second produced useful photo mask forms upon high resolution Kodak plates. Minimum dimensional tolerance obtained in experimental writing was +0.005 inches. Analysis shows that dimensional tolerances of +5.0 microns are possible to achieve for the one-step writing method."
"This article explains the generation and use of a single curve which can be utilized in predicting, with reasonably high accuracy, the apparent inductance of all toroidal inductors at any operating frequency. Until the curve being discussed in this paper was developed, a separate curve was required for each different inductor. These individual curves were laboriously constructed by successive computations by each user. Utilizing the proposed procedure considerably reduces the number and complexity of the calculations, yet produces the desired results. Included in the text is a detailed explanation of the procedure used in developing this single curve and several examples depicting its use. To prove the validity of this method of predicting apparent inductance, a number of samples from various manufacturers of toroidal inductors were tested over a wide range of operating frequencies with extremely good results. Utilizing the curve not only aids in the proper design selection of toroidal inductors, but may result in the use of more available standard stocked items. Stocked items will prove more economical than specially designed units, will make use of already established reliability information, and will expedite procurement of parts."
"A graphical presentation is developed which shows Q an increase in inductance for every inductor in a family on one plot. The basic principle consists of plotting loci of constant Q in inductance-frequency coordinates. Lines of constant increase in inductance, minimum and maximum nominal inductance, and peak Q are also included. Information which conventionally would be scattered in several different places or not presented at all is thus brought together in one display. These plots very effectively present the characteristics of a single family of inductors. However, their most significant advantage is the convenience with which the characteristics of several families can be presented on one sheet for comparison and selection. The inductor designer can use the Q-contour concept to visualize the way in which existing or contemplated families complement each other in the inductance-frequency plane. The equations for the Q contour are derived assuming that an inductor can be represented with a lumped constant equivalent circuit over the frequency range of interest, and that high-frequency winding and dielectric losses are negligible compared to core losses."
"The successful application of thermocompression lead bonding to semiconductor or thin-film electronic devices depends on the establishment of the associated parameters. The quality of a thermocompression bond is primarily related to the process temperature and bonding force. A technique using the coefficient of friction is presented that both reduces the time necessary for determining optimum parameter values and increases the accuracy of the results. Modem theories of the friction process are used to develop mathematical expressions for shear and tensile bond strengths in terms of friction measurements. A further application of the parameter determination technique concerns the measurement of surface contamination that may affect thermocompression bonding."
"Physical phenomena are divided into three pairs of dual phenomena, electrical and magnetic; thermal and optical; compression and shear. Temperature is termed thermal potential, and pressure, compression potential. Corresponding to thermal energy and thermal potential, the existence of thermal charge is postulated equal to their ratio. Formulas and equations are presented for the shift in centers of electrical charge, analogous to the shift of molecules of a medium in thermoelasticity. The theory presented is a mathematical analysis of two- or three-dimensional variable multistate semiconductor crystals or films which pass or block in two or three mutually perpendicular directions, and can interchange pass and nonpass from one dimension to another. In particular, the theory establishes conditions for conduction in one or two of three mutually perpendicular directions. Since the interchangeability may be controlled, the element acts as a relay. In applying the theory, the shifts of charge centers, that is, the electrical strains, are preassigned. Then the stresses can be calculated which are required to produce the preassigned strains. Thus we know what inputs are necessary to achieve preassigned desired outputs."
"A mechanical filter with real frequency transmission zeros on the high-frequency side of the passband has been developed. These points of infinite attenuation are produced through the coupling of alternate disk resonators by short lengths of wire. A procedure for designing this type of filter through use of electrical analogies is discussed in some detail. The amplitude and envelope delay characteristics of a presently manufactured 100 kc/s, single-sideband (SSB) filter being used in broadband carrier systems are described. This filter is one of a set of twelve SSB filters having carrier frequencies ranging from 64 kc/s to 108 kc/s. The use of finite frequency transmission zeros has made possible a 30 per cent reduction in differential delay over conventional constant-K models."
"The sealed magnetic reed contact offers many possibilities for improved switching performance. As its use is extended into new fields, particularly the area of miniaturization, new forms of tests are needed to characterize its behavior. Some measuring methods pertinent to such characterization are described in this paper. In the field of contact resistance, procedures are indicated for correlating resistance stability with the degree of magnetization applied to a coil surrounding the contact. Also, a procedure for applying magnetic measurements to the sealed units is described which permits accurate estimation of the actual contact forces. A new technique for characterizing the energy-handling ability of the contact is outlined. The method applies the variable stress technique used in many strength of materials studies and more recently in semiconductor device evaluation. As shown by examples, it appears to offer considerable promise for comparing designs, determining reliability, making extended estimates beyond the available data, and identifying and isolating various physical mechanisms that control performance."
"Problems resulting where test sets must be both dynamic (or system exercising), and portable are analyzed and discussed, with a study of maintenance philosophy applicable to the system being tested. Three basic problems are covered, relating to the questions: Is there actually a portability requirement? - What is the optimal component density? - What is the optimal degree of automaticity? This report describes and compares two generations of a representative test set. The pressing need to minimize down-time in electronic systems has increased the use of test sets, test set testers, and even test sets for test set testers. Compared with the older, better-known laboratory and shop testers, these are generally elaborate units, actually diagnostic subsystems, a term especially appropriate for the dynamic or system exercising types. When a tester is required to do both the dynamic (as to test philosophy) and be portable (as to packaging) a challenging set of problems result."
"Proponents of the various miniaturization techniques claim advantages of: reduced size, weight and cost, and increased reliability. Reduction in size and weight are obvious consequences of the technique. Reduced cost and improved reliability are still to be proven. Shrinking electronic assemblies and sub-assemblies bring about interconnection problems to the packaging engineer. Interconnecting devices are not only a factor in weight and size, but are a weak link in the reliability chain of the complete electronic system. These matters are considered in this report with especial attention to multilayer printed circuit boards."
"With the advent of the age of computers, electronic systems engineers turned their attention to the development of memory drums and spindles. Thus, they affiliated themselves, intentionally or otherwise, with the mechanical engineer and his wealth of knowledge in the field of machine design. System considerations and requirements are examined in addition to some of the primary technical areas, o Included are considerations of stability, rigidity, thermesthesia, environmental control and materials. In conclusion, philosophical reflections are expressed concerning the marriage of both fields of engineering in this application, and the attendant obligations of management."
"Factors leading to design and construction of the 5500 curie Co60 facility are presented. Emphasis is placed on safety restrictions, research needs, and location limitations. Particular emphasis is given to design of linear isodose curves in the usable portion of the radiation field. Source geometry and intensity calculations as well as economy and feasibility problems are presented along with limited empirical field mapping data. Shielding calculations and their validity are demonstrated where applicable. The entire facility was provided with radiation safety features in the event of power failure. The electrical control circuit was designed for convenient and failsafe operation."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Time-harmonic and transient electromagnetic fields in spherical cavities whose walls are made of any material characterized by (\\sigma, \\mu, \\epsilon) are investigated. For time-harmonic fields the wave equation is solved exactly in both the cavity and wall regions when the excitation is an electric dipole located at the cavity center. Numerical information based on these exact solutions shows the influence of the wall parameters upon the fields and provides a basis for studying the applicability and validity of several often used approximations. From the time-harmonic solutions, the Laplace transforms of the field equations are determined. These transforms are very complex and therefore are inverted numerically. Numerical results describing the magnetic field due to a particular dipole current,i_{d}(t)=(J - e^{-dt}), are presented for several cases of interest."
"The inherent spherical aberration of a spherical reflector antenna is corrected by using an auxiliary Gregorian reflector feed system that rotates about the center of curvature of the reflector. Tests at bothX- andK-band frequencies demonstrate feasibility of the design for wide-angle scanning."
"The radar cross section for scattering of electromagnetic waves by a plasma having an electron concentration proportional tor^{-2}is calculated. The exact solution is compared with the scalar approximation. It is found that the exact solution can be orders of magnitude smaller than any of the usual approximations."
"Use is made of simple geometrical optics to obtain back-scattering cross sections of arrays of identical spheres, both for broadside and end illumination. Experimental data are given for two- and three-sphere arrays for all angles of illumination and for various spacings of spheres. It is shown that a reasonable knowledge of the general behavior of the cross sections may be obtained even from simple geometrical considerations."
"The analysis of an endfire array of tunable parasitic slots is described. Self and mutual admittances between thin half-wavelength slots are found by an application of Babinet's Principle. To solve the circuit equations of the array, the condition is imposed that the phase velocity remain constant along the array. Then, by matrix inversion, the excitation amplitude and self-reactance of the parasitic elements are determined. The phase of the reflector is chosen to maximize the coupling between the driven element and the directors. Finally, experimental patterns are compared with computed results."
"A method is presented for evaluating theQof an antenna, where theQis defined as in conventional network theory. The method consists of subtracting the energy density associated with the power flow from the total energy density, thus enabling the magnetic and electric reactive energy to be computed. Specific application of the method is made to the evaluation of theQof spherical and cylindrical modes. It is verified that theQbecomes very large when the order of the mode exceedsk_{0}awhereais the radius of the sphere or cylinder on which the sources are located."
"Generalized gyrotropic media are characterized by four axes, three being the principal axes of the anisotropic media before application of the steady magnetic fieldH_{0}, and the fourth being the direction ofH_{0}. They can be synthetically fabricated from an appropriately stratified pile of ferrite rods. Although much more complicated than for ordinary gyrotropic media (which are characterized by a single axis ofH_{0}) the basic modes of radio propagation in such generalized media turn out to have some surprisingly simple properties. For exampleH_{0}, and the three principal directions of propagation of characteristically elliptically polarized planewaves, lie in a common plane. Formulas for these characteristic polarizations in terms of the tensor permeability are also very simple."
"The ionospheric anisotropy is considered with horizontal magnetic field either for transverse (East-West or West-East) or for longitudinal (South-North) propagation. For transverse propagation in a vertically stratified medium the differential equations of the various field components are uncoupled and a closed form solution is given for identical exponential height variation of the components of tensor conductivity. For arbitrary height variation of the tensor conductivity numerical solutions are obtained after expressing the surface impedance below the ionosphere in terms of a Riccati-type differential equation. The West-East direction of propagation exhibits a lower attenuation constant than the East-West direction forf < 1000cps. This is contrary to the expectations based on a model of a homogeneous anisotropic ionosphere. For longitudinal propagation the differential equations of the various field components are coupled, with the coupling being particularly strong above theDregion. The differential equations are simplified by assuming no coupling in the lower ionosphere and strong coupling above a pre-selected altitudey_{1}. For exponential height variation of the tensor conductivity components the closed form solution differs negligibly from the isotropic case. For arbitrary height varition of the tensor conductivity numerical solutions are obtained similarly as for the transverse propagation. Over most of the frequency range the attenuation figures for South-North propagation are intermediate between the corresponding figures for West-East and East-West propagation."
"The trans-horizon signal is assumed to be adequately described by a simple Waterman scatter model and to be ascribable to a partial reflection from a \"rippled atmospheric layer.\" Here it is assumed that the boundary of this layer is space sinusoidal in a plane normal to the line determined by the transmitter and receiver points. The thickness of the layer is approximately uniform and the permittivity is assumed to vary in a Gaussian manner. Theoretical and experimental descriptions of the vertical-transverse permittivity spectrum are obtained and compared. A corresponding comparison is made between the theoretical and Waterman experimental received power vs azimuth angle patterns. In both cases, there is qualitative agreement provided the ratio of ripple amplitude to ripple wavelength is large. In addition, an estimate of the trans-horizon signal power spectrum is compared with experimental observations. Experimentally, the power spectrum is found to broaden with increasing scattering angle and beamwidth, while the present scatter model yields a power spectrum whose width is an inverse function of scattering angle and beamwidth."
"The scattering of electromagnetic waves by a spherically symmetric continuous dielectric is examined. Two distinct methods for calculating the scattering amplitude are derived. It is shown that the scalar approximation is, in general, extremely poor. The radar cross section is discussed in some detail."
"The echo area of rectangular plates on the order of1\\lambda \\times 1\\lambdain size and smaller with linear slots is discussed. Approximations are given which allow one to explain qualitatively the experimental results given. A\\frac{1}{2} \\lambda \\times 1\\lambdaplate is considered both analytically and experimentally and by choosing the proper length slot or a slot with the proper reactive loading the echo area has been reduced by more than 8 db from the solid plate return."
"In this paper the problem of the far field radiation of an infinite aperture occupying one side of an infinite conducting wedge is solved. For uniform illuminations as well as for illuminations tapered to zero at the edges, it is shown that the radiated field can be effectively represented by line sources situated along the edge of the wedge. Also, for the special case of illuminations which taper to zero at the edges within a few wavelengths, it is shown that the shadow region radiation is proportional to the rate of taper."
"The application of the optimization technique known as dynamic programming to the design of \"thinned\" arrays with unequally-spaced elements is described. Dynamic programming is a systematic procedure for efficiently utilizing the capabilities of modern high-speed digital computing machines to find solutions to problems not computationally feasible by conventional means. In this paper it is applied to the design of linear arrays of 25 elements spaced within a 50 wavelength aperture. The results obtained compare favorably with similar results found by other design techniques. The effect on the sidelobes of varying the angular region of optimization and the spacing-quantization is also explored."
"The problem of the input impedance of curved wire antennas is generally formulated in terms of an integral equation. A stationary formula is used in evaluating the input impedances of arc antennas and short helical radiators of which the cylindrical antenna is a special case. The computational results are presented in graphical form. The impedance characteristics of these curved antennas are discussed."
"An experimental study of the spatial homogeneity of the tropospheric permittivity and air velocity fields is presented. Knowledge regarding the homogeneity is imperative in order to measure the 4-dimensional spectrum of the permittivity fluctuations to be discussed in a later report. It is found that in most cases the scattering ability of the troposphere is enhanced with height. The variation of scattered power with position of the scattering volume along a horizontal direction varies very little. Similarly, it is shown that the wind velocity varies very little with height in the height region under consideration, while the velocity varies somewhat in a horizontal direction. Velocity and scattered power do not seem to correlate."
"In this paper it is shown that by means of a crosscorrelation antenna system it is possible to measure the mutual power distribution,T(u, v), of partially coherent radio sources. The two linear antennas of the system are scanned independently to give a two-dimensional output which can be written as\\bar{R}(u, v) = T(u, v) \\ast A(-u)B^{\\ast}(-v)whereA(u)andB(v)are the patterns of the two antennas. A two-dimensional Fourier analysis of the output shows it to be a smoothed version of the true mutual power distribution. One can define a principal solution,T_{0}(u, v), which is a generalization to two dimensions of the well-known principal solution,T_{0}(u), which occurs when the sources are incoherent. The limiting cases of complete coherence and complete incoherence are considered. It is shown that for coherent sources the principal solution is factorable,T_{0}(u, v)=\\varepsilon_{0}(u)\\varepsilon_{0}^{\\ast}(v). For incoherent sources it is shown that the spatial frequency spectrum ofT_{0}(u, v)is a function of only the difference,x-y, of the spatial co-ordinates,t_{0}(x, y) = t_{0}(x- y)."
"A microwave Luneberg lens is heated by radiation from the feed. The resultant temperature rise is calculated in terms of the thermal conductivity and electric dissipation factor of the lens dielectric for the wavelength of the microwave radiation. The temperature rise at the center of a lens is calculated, taking into account the varied properties of the dielectric within the lens. The spherical symmetry of the lens substantially simplifies this calculation. The temperature distribution within the lens is calculated, neglecting the varied thermal conductivity and dissipation factors of the lens. A spherical inversion (Kelvin transform), centered at the feed, is used to transform the lens surface to a plane so that the heat flow may be calculated. The hottest point is at the feed; the temperature rise being about twice that at the center. In the limit of low dissipation factor, the lens diameter has no effect on temperature because of the compensating effects of thermal resistance and dissipated power variations with lens size."
"An experimental study was made of the driving-point admittance and the relative amplitude and phase distributions of the current for a dipole antenna near and parallel to the interface between the conducting medium and free space. (The antenna was always located in the conducting medium, unless otherwise specified.) The depthdof the antenna from the interface was varied fromd/\\lambda=4.4to 0. The loss tangent\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}of the conducting medium was varied from 0.036 to 8.8, a range which includes a variety of media such as poor insulators, the ionosphere, plasmas, dry earth, wet earth, lake water, and sea water. The antenna height\\beta hin radians was varied from\\beta h=0.1through2\\pi. Comparisons were made, wherever possible, between the characteristics of the dipole antenna in the half space and in a space completely filled with the dissipative medium. The driving-point admittances in the limiting cased\\rightarrow \\inftyare in good agreement with the available theories by King and Harrison [1], and Wu [2], which have already been verified experimentally by Iizuka and King [3]. Since all measured results are given in terms of dimensionless parameters such as\\beta h,d/\\lambda_{u},\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}, and1/\\sqrt{\\epsilon_{r}}, they may be applied to any combination of conductivity, frequency, dielectric constant, and distance of the antenna from the interface [4]."
"A new type of array is described which consists of a grid or mesh structure situated parallel and close to a flat conducting sheet. It operates as a linearly polarized traveling-wave antenna with the main lobe of radiation in a backward angle-fire direction. The direction of the beam is a function of the frequency. Operation of the antenna is analyzed by simple array theory and comparisons are made between calculated and measured performance. An application of the array as a radio telescope antenna is mentioned."
"An automatically phased HF receiving array using separate RF amplifiers for each element and IF signal combination is discussed. The type of array considered corrects essentially all phase errors between the distant transmitter and the point where the received signals are combined. This includes errors due to the propagation path, array element motion, near-field obstructions, and instabilities in electronic equipment and RF cables. The array also corrects phase shifts due to changes in angle of arrival, thus giving it the highly desirable property of automatically tracking a desired signal. The effects of interference on array performance and methods for minimizing these effects are discussed. The effect of a single monochromatic interfering signal is discussed in some detail, and results showing regions of acceptable and unacceptable performance in terms of the ratio of desired-to-interfering signal strength and the difference between desired and interfering signal frequencies are presented. A six-element experimental array is described, a technique for measuring patterns is discussed, and measured array patterns are compared with calculated array patterns."
"This paper derives the characteristics of a spherically-shaped retrodirective space array. The array can receive an incoming signal over4\\pisteradians, amplify, frequency translate, and modulate this signal, and then return it in the direction of the incident wave. The directivity of the array for every angle of incidence corresponds to the area illuminated by the incoming wave. In the array the retrodirective characteristic is obtained by a phase inversion technique that is realized in tunnel-diode image frequency converters. A circular cross section of the spherically-shaped retrodirective array is analyzed. The analysis is extended to the spherically-shaped array. It is shown that the effective aperture of a spherical array is smaller than the illuminated area. This reduction occurs because of a tapered amplitude distribution and a symmetrical phase error proportional to the frequency difference between incident wave and reradiated wave at the image frequency. The output spectrum of the converters in the array contains not only the image frequency signal but additional frequency components as well. Because of the phase characteristics of the spectral components, only the image frequency signal when reradiated by the array elements will add coherently in direction of the incident wave. The reradiation of the other frequency components is not collimated."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A self-phasing array antenna is described which operates on the incident wavefront in such a manner that when it is retransmitted it returns whence it came as a coherent wavefront irrespective of the original phase distribution incident on the array. Self-phasing is useful where a two-way propagation path is available and where a conventional antenna cannot operate efficiently because of an unknown phase distribution in the incident wavefront. The operation of a self-phasing array, its properties, its relation to other antenna design techniques and its potential applications are discussed."
"A self-focusing array antenna model is described with a brief synopsis of an experimental program which was carried out to evaluate the technique and to demonstrate the principle by means of an operating model. The results of tests performed on linear and planar versions of the array are given in the form of field patterns. They show the successful operation of self-focusing in the presence of several factors including multiple targets, extended targets, moving targets and simulated atmospheric inhomogeneities."
"This paper describes a phase-lock receiver designed to accomplish the arraying of four independently steerable antennas and provides some measured performance data. The results indicate that the performance of such an array will be comparable to that of a single antenna with the same aperture and a conventional phase-lock receiver."
"The concept and design of an active retrodirective array, resulting from the specialized requirements and constraints of space/earth communications, is presented. The advantages of employing active microwave gain are discussed. The attendant problem of instability is defined and several aspects of the solution, namely frequency offsetting and polarization isolation, are detailed. The latter technique makes use of orthogonally polarized \"subarrays\" -one for receiving and one for transmitting-intermeshed on a common aperture surface. A discussion of tolerable phase errors and the effect of element failure on the system reliability is presented. Techniques for realizing the active circuitry required for the functions of RF amplification, frequency conversion and modulation are described. An experimental model, employing strip transmission line techniques throughout, was fabricated and tested. All results, including those of array gain, retrodirectivity and simultaneous retrodirectivity from several sources at different frequencies, and effects of element removal, corresponded closely to their calculated predictions."
"A description is given of an adaptively phased receiving antenna array consisting of four independently steered thirty-foot parabolic reflectors capable of operation to 15 Gc. The array has been designed as a research tool to demonstrate the principle of adaptively phasing the signals from independent array elements to achieve the same performance as would be obtained from a single equivalent aperture. The initial operating frequency has been chosen at 2270 Mc so that the array may be used in communication experiments using Echo I and Echo II passive satellites. The adaptive phasing principle is obtained by the use of a phase-locked receiver associated with each array element. The phase reference for each receiver is supplied from a common reference signal which may be obtained in three ways depending on signal characteristics. Among the advantages of this type of array are 1) ability to make separate phase corrections for each antenna, thus allowing for atmospheric inhomogeneities or for differential Doppler shift between the source and the individual antennas; 2) indifference to which particular grating lobe is chosen, because the adaptive nature of the individual phase-locked loops will always provide maximum gain; 3) potential for simple modifications to achieve interferometer or \"data-processing\" antenna behavior; 4) mechanical and electrical simplicity; 5) increased acquisition range for signal sources which are not known accurately in position. A detailed discussion is given of the design and various modes of operation of the phase-locked loops and receiver combining system. This is followed by a description of the automatic search and tracking functions, and their operational advantages in use with a moving target, the position of which is not known accurately. Finally, some results of preliminary tests with the system are given, which indicate that it will achieve its designed performance characteristics."
"A retrodirective array using a single microwave mixer to accomplish conjugate phase shift in each element is described. Reradiated patterns were measured for a four-element array to substantiate the predicted performance. This array has an advantage over the Van Atta array in that the elements are not restricted to being located on a plane surface. It is more efficient than the previously used method of employing two mixers to provide conjugate phase shift because of the reduction in converison loss and LO (local oscillator) power."
"A system has been developed for relaying messages via a satellite between earth points. In this system, messages transmitted to a satellite modulate a retrodirective antenna. Earth stations receive messages by irradiating the satellite antenna. Methods of modulating the retrodirective array are discussed with emphasis on methods to facilitate communications among several ground stations. There are advantages in spectrum usage and sharing with surface facilities. System design parameters are presented. Minimal power is required in the satellite as compared to the active communications satellites. Extremely high reliability is inherent in the design of the satellite electronic system, which can be made entirely from solid-state components."
"Conventionally, self-focusing or steering of an adaptive array has always been controlled by signal measurements made in the receiving mode. By the use of beam tagging, a transmitting array can be made adaptive. The signal from each array element is tagged with identifying modulation, and a single sample from the far field can then be analyzed to find control information for the set of transmitting-element phases and amplitudes. The technique can be used with two-way (transmit-receive) arrays or with arrays used solely for transmitting. It can also be used in combination with conventional techniques for controlling adaptive arrays."
"The integrated transistorized dipole antennafier (antenna-amplifier) is ideally suited for use in array systems. The advantages include ease of amplitude-distribution control, low noise, high gain, high reliability and simplicity. The integration is achieved by using the antenna as a circuit element of the transistorized amplifier, thus eliminating the tuned input circuits and transmission lines commonly used. A four-element broadside array of antennafiers is described in which the gain of each element is varied by controlling the base bias. Binomial, uniform, edge and Dolph-Chebyshev distributions were chosen to show the wide variation of beam control possible; the resulting measured and calculated patterns, half-power beamwidths, gain over a half-wavelength dipole, and noise temperatures are presented. A method of experimentally evaluating the noise performance, based on a theoretical development, is also described."
"A retrodirective satellite antenna for a broad bandwidth, satellite-to-ground data transmission link, is described. An information-collecting satellite which transmits its data in the direction of the ground receiver upon command, is considered. The satellite antenna described for this system is an active retrodirective antenna which utilizes the beam-forming characteristics of a phasing matrix. A signal from the ground station is received on a particular beam port of the matrix which corresponds to a particular beam-pointing direction. Control circuitry in the satellite activates a switching matrix and a transmitter so that the data-carrying signal is transmitted in the same direction from which the satellite is interrogated. Other retrodirective techniques in addition to the phasing-matrix antenna are evaluated in terms of their relative merit. The systems considered include the active Van Atta array, the automatic three-dimensional electronic scanning, antenna (ATHESA), the Luneberg lens and various other antenna array techniques."
"Because of the size of the moon, bandwidths of lunar relay communication links have been below 10 kc. This study describes and analyses an approach to the problem of increasing lunar relay bandwidth. An adaptive receiving array is described which makes possible the use of exceptionally large apertures capable of being focused on a small spot on the lunar surface. However, an analysis shows that side-lobe effects considerably reduce expected bandwidth gains. A bandwidth of 40 kc is calculated for a 1000-ft squareX-band array which employs a \"maximum energy\" taper. Between 256 and 1024 array elements are required."
"Electronically adaptive receiving and transmitting antenna systems which can be employed for ground tracking stations and satellite and space vehicles are discussed. The receiving antenna systems described herein contain active elements which, unlike in passive antenna arrays, automatically adjust the electrical phases of the signals received by the array elements to obtain antenna directivity. The self-focusing feature of these receiving antenna systems is achieved by a set of phase-locked loops, which permit phase adjustments of signals received by various antenna elements continuously regardless of the direction of the transmitting source. For a transmitting antenna, the self-focusing feature is provided by a pilot signal from the receiving station which enables the transmitting antenna beam to point in the direction of the receiving station automatically. The basic principles of operation of active adaptive receiving and transmitting antenna arrangements, including performance analyses in the presence of noise, are presented in this paper to demonstrate the usefulness of such antennas."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Radiation resistance for an elementary electric dipole immersed in a magnetoionic plasma is investigated. Based on an integral expression obtained by Kogelnik, extensive numerical results are obtained and discussed. In addition a simple analytic expression is derived for the case of small magnetic fields."
"The general King-Sandler array theory has been examined in detail for the case of broadside arrays. Since it is not necessary to assume identical current distributions on every element in the array, a distinction is made between specified base currents and voltages. The driving-point impedances for specified base currents and voltages are presented for arrays of up to 25 elements. The effect of interaction between the element currents in the base impedances and radiation patterns is clearly shown for the broadside array. The results indicate that the major effect of unequal current distributions in the broadside array is to cause important variations in the driving-point impedances and little effect in the radiation patterns."
"Gaussian electromagnetic field pulses of several durations are propagated through infinite sheets into the interior of hollow cylinders and into the interior of spherical shells. The plates, spheres and cylinders are made of aluminum and contain no slots. The time history of the propagated pulses is computed. Finally, the time sequence of the electric field is calculated in the interior of a cylinder of finite length when connected at its ends by wires to a generator delivering a current pulse of Gaussian shape. The dimensions of the cavities are assumed to be sufficiently small so that resonances are not excited by the highest significant frequency contained in the shortest pulse considered. The numerical study is restricted to thin-walled aluminum shields 1/32 inch, 1/16 inch, 1/8 inch and 1/4 inch thick. The half-amplitude widths of the pulses employed lie in the range14 \\musec to2400 \\musec. It is shown that the resultant Gaussian pulse electric fields defined on the surface of the plates and cylinders are propagated with little diminution in amplitude. This is understandable due to the requirement that the tangential fields are continuous across the interfaces, and to the fact that skin effect is almost nonexistent at low frequencies. The incident (as contrasted to resultant) field pulse undergoes reflection at the boundary surface. Hence, the attenuation sustained by the incident field is great, since reflection is the chief mechanism of attenuation of fields at low frequencies. Thin spherical shells form effective magnetic shields. The electric field is small in the interior of thin-walled cylinders carrying extremely large transient currents."
"This paper considers the scattering of electromagnetic waves by an infinitely long anisotropic plasma-coated conducting cylinder. The source is assumed to be a magnetic current filament which gives rise to an incident magnetic field with only an axial component. Complete expressions for the scattered electric and magnetic fields are obtained. Scattering by an anisotropic plasma column and that by an isotropic plasma-coated conducting cylinder are special cases of the present problem."
"A new type of vertically-polarized, unidirectional frequency-independent antenna over ground is described. The antenna was first derived from the log-periodic (LP) zigzag by making a right-angle bend along the axis of the planar device. The result is a simple structure which has a maximum height slightly greater than one-quarter wavelength at the lowest frequency of operation. The simple, but useful analysis employed rests upon the assumption that the principles of operation of an LP antenna structure are related to those of a uniformly periodic antenna structure of the same type. This analysis is applicable to other types of frequency-independent antennas also. Experimental data are presented for a wide range of the parameters of the Bent LP Zigzag, and a design procedure is outlined."
"A theoretical treatment based on the concept of statistical sampling shows that the signal received in the specular direction when a plane wave is incident obliquely on a rough surface can be considered as the vector sum of a constant signal and a random signal. The random signal consists of two components, which are approximately normally distributed and independent, one in phase with the constant signal and the other in phase quadrature. Except for very rough surfaces the variances of the two random components are not equal, the variance of the phase quadrature component being greater than that of the in-phase component. The theoretical results are shown to agree with those based on other theoretical approaches and are in addition confirmed by experiments using microwaves reflected from a calibrated rough-water surface."
"The properties of circular and square loop antennas as probes for measuring the magnetic field are investigated. The response of an electrically small loop to the magnetic and the electric components of a given electromagnetic field is determined theoretically for singly- and doubly-loaded loops in terms of suitably defined constants. A system error ratio is defined as a measure of the ability of a given probe to discriminate against the effects of the electric field. An experimental procedure for measuring loop sensitivities in the elliptically polarized near field of a quarter-wave monopole is described. Experimental and theoretical results are compared. It is concluded that very large errors are possible when a singly-loaded loop is used to measure magnetic fields unless its diameter is less than0.01\\lambda. The doubly-loaded probe may be used with comparable accuracy when its diameter is as large as0.15\\lambda."
"The general problem of the insulated antenna in an isotropic homogeneous medium of infinite extent is reviewed under the assumption that the medium is sufficiently conducting to permit the application of coaxial line theory. The currents and associated electromagnetic fields for the completely insulated antenna are obtained and the directional properties of the latter explained by comparison with a collinear array. An antenna in which only a central portion is insulated, while the ends are bare, is analyzed in terms of the theories of the insulated and bare antenna, both when the structure is driven by generators at the junctions of the bare and insulated sections and when it is driven by an internal coaxial feeder in the manner of a sleeve dipole. Finally, the center-driven insulated antenna with bare ends is investigated and its field is compared with that of the antenna driven at the junctions of the bare and insulated sections."
"The radiation characteristics of a line source of magnetic current are studied for the case in which the source is situated in a half-space of isotropic, compressible plasma which is bounded on one side by a perfectly conducting, rigid plane screen. In addition to the electromagnetic and plasma space waves, the line source excites a boundary wave. This boundary wave is a coupled wave. It has associated with it both a magnetic field component and the pressure term. This is in contrast to the space waves which can be decomposed into an electromagnetic (EM) mode with no pressure term and a plasma (P) mode with no magnetic field associated with it. The characteristics of this boundary wave are evaluated. The boundary wave propagates for all frequencies and the power carried by the boundary wave becomes smaller as the frequency is increased."
"A method of direction finding by sampling and storing the relative phase and amplitude of the signal received at the elements of an array of many wavelengths aperture is described. If the wave interference field set up by sky waves moves slowly relative to the time of acquiring the samples through a single receiving channel, then the interfering modes may be resolved, as in a beamed array, by combining the samples in a computer. The direction of only the dominant mode can be determined when wave interference fading is relatively rapid. By correlating the outputs of the scanning receiver and a reference receiver, the effective bandwidth of the system can be determined in the latter by the desired carrier spectrum rather than by the scanning rate. An analysis is made of the error in a randomly fading field."
"Various probabilistic properties of a large antenna array with randomly spaced elements have been studied. It is found that for almost all cases of practical interest the required number of elements is closely related to the desired sidelobe level and is almost independent of the aperture dimension, the resolution (or the beamwidth) depends mainly on the aperture dimension, and the directive gain is proportional to the number of elements used if the average spacing is large. As a consequence the number of elements required is considerably less than that with uniform spacings. Starting with a given number of elements and a given aperture size, it is possible to improve the resolution by a factor of ten, a hundred, or more by spreading these elements over a larger aperture with little risk in obtaining a much higher sidelobe level and a lower directive gain. In fact, this method offers a solution which is optimum in a certain statistical sense, i.e., all sidelobes are of equal level with equal probability. In addition, this analysis also gives a simple estimate of the sidelobe level of most nonuniformly spaced antenna arrays. In a number of such arrays studied by various investigators with high speed computers, the agreement found is remarkable."
"The general King-Sandler array theory has been examined in detail for the case of endfire arrays. Since it is not necessary to assume identical current distributions, a distinction is made between specification of the base voltages and currents. The driving-point impedances for specified base voltages and currents are presented for arrays of up to 25 elements. The effect of interaction between the element currents in distorting the radiation pattern is shown for the 15-element endfire array. The results indicate that the unequal current distributions have a pronounced effect in determining the driving-point impedances, sidelobe levels and back-to-front ratios of endfire arrays."
"Several series of rigorous numerical calculations of the backscatter cross section of a conducting sphere with a thin lossless dielectric coating were carried out. The ratio of the radius to wavelength was varied from about 0.02 to 10.0; the dielectric constant of the coating was taken to be 2.56, 4.0, or 6.0; and the thickness of the coating was 0.1 or 0.05 times the outer radius of the coated sphere. Curves of the results are presented which indicate that the backscatter cross section of a coated sphere may be increased by as much as a factor of ten over that of an uncoated sphere of the same size, and, due to interference effects, an even greater decrease may be obtained. Further, small changes (less than one per cent) in the thickness or dielectric constant of the coating, or in the wavelength, may bring about large changes in the cross section. The numerical results are also compared with some experimental measurements, and with predictions of a \"creeping-wave\" type of analysis carried out by Helstrom."
"The scattering of plane electromagnetic waves by conductors limited in linear dimensions to one or two wavelengths is treated in terms of the spherical-transmission line. By expressing the boundary conditions at the surface of the conductor in spherical-polar coordinates, the amplitudes and phases of the physically significant outgoing waves can be systematically deduced to represent the entire scattered field. This method enables one to obtain the angular distribution of the scattered field and thus provides results for bistatic as well as monostatic radar cross sections. The analysis that has been worked out is not presented in detail. This exposition is devoted only to noting the basic ideas of the method and to indicating the variety of computing methods for fitting the boundary conditions to the limited number of spherical harmonics necessary to represent the scattered field effectively."
"The optimum directivity of various types of uniformly spaced broadside arrays of dipoles is investigated theoretically in this paper. The formulation is processed with the aid of an array matrix. The expression for the optimum directivity and the corresponding excitation are expressed directly in terms of the elements of the array matrix. The computed values are assembled in several sets of curves, and the results are compared with the directivity of uniformly excited arrays."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"By using the reciprocity theorem, simple expressions are derived for the far-field patterns of normal and parallel dipoles in a plane dielectric slab. The dielectric slab may have a conducting ground plane on one surface. Numerical results are presented in a graphical form to show the effects of the dielectric on the antenna pattern. A dipole array embedded in a radome occupies less space than a conventional parabolic antenna, and the ground plane offers structural support for the radome."
"A synthesis method based on geometrical optics for designing a dual-reflector antenna system with an arbitrary phase and amplitude distribution in the aperture of the second reflector is presented. The first reflector may be illuminated by a pattern with an arbitrarily curved phase front. A pair of first-order ordinary nonlinear differential equations of the formdy/dx=f(x, y)are developed for the system. Questions concerning uniqueness, existence and bounds for the solutions can be answered. Calculations and numerical results for the design of a uniform amplitude and phase dual-reflector system are presented."
"In a phased-array antenna with a very large number of regularly-spaced radiating elements, the gain realized at the beam peak is equal to the number of elements times the gain realized in the same direction when only one typical element is excited. The ideal radiation pattern of one such element in a large planar array has a cosine variation of gain with angle when the elements are closely spaced, and has a peak value of gain equal to4\\pi A/\\lambda^{2}whereAis the area allotted to each element. The active impedance of each element in a practical phased array varies with scan angle, because of mutual coupling between the elements. The associated mismatch causes power to be returned to the generators, thereby reducing the gain realized by the array and by the element. The element pattern, measured in the proper environment of surrounding elements, deviates from the ideal pattern in proportion to this effect. Mutual coupling is inherently unavoidable in a closely-spaced infinite array of elements; for example, in a square array with less than\\lambda/\\sqrt{2}spacing. There is a loss of element efficiency caused by the coupling, and since coupling increases with closer spacing, this accounts for the lower gain expected from ideal elements with reduced allotted area. Grating lobes can exist when the elements are not closely spaced; for example, in a square array with more than\\lambda/2spacing. In this case, the ideal pattern is truncated to discriminate against grating lobes; this gives the higher gain expected from ideal elements with larger allotted area. It is concluded that in a phased-array antenna having a very large number of regularly-spaced radiating elements, perfect impedance match for all scan angles can be postulated for every typical element without encountering any real discrepancy in the determination of element gain. In the absence of grating lobes, such an antenna would realize the greatest possible gain for all scan angles."
"The ordinary Fresnel zone concept is modified to include the influence of finite ground conductivity. This is important for ground-based antennas because the influence on the radiation pattern of irregularities near the antenna is determined by the amplitude and phase of the groundwave. A new definition of Fresnel zones which takes into account the phase shift of groundwave propagation is given and it is shown that these new zones are zones of greatest influence, at least when discontinuities of the electrical parameters of the ground are considered. Numerical results for the first Fresnel zone are given, and it is shown that the zone is much smaller for a finite conductivity than for an infinity conductivity, especially for small angles of elevation."
"The design of \"thinned\" planar array antennas is considered in which the density of elements located within the aperture is made proportional to the amplitude of the aperture illumination of a conventional \"filled\" array. Density tapering permits good sidelobe performance from arrays of equally radiating elements. The selection of the element locations is performed statistically by utilizing the amplitude taper as the probability density function for specifying the location of elements. The statistical design procedures and the theoretical prediction of performance are given. Application to a 50 wavelength diameter planar aperture is discussed and the results compared to conventional amplitude-taper designs. Examples of computed patterns are shown for density tapers modeled after 25, 30, 35, and 40 db circular Taylor distributions. The properties of a planar array of 10,000 elements are examined for \"natural\" thinning and for 70 per cent and 90 per cent of the elements removed. The sidelobes are determined more by the number of remaining elements than by the model amplitude taper. Statistically designed density-tapered arrays are useful when the number of elements is large and when it is not practical to employ an amplitude taper to achieve low sidelobes."
"Simplified expressions are derived for the electromagnetic fields produced by a vertical or horizontal magnetic dipole (loop antenna) located in air above the sea. The expressions hold over the quasi-near range in both media subject to certain mild restrictions. The solutions are obtained by first applying the boundary conditions to determine the magnetic Hertz potential\\bar{\\pi}^{\\ast}in the form of Sommerfeld integrals, and then relating these to two auxiliary integralsU, Vand their derivatives, asymptotic series for which are obtained by extending the work of Baños and Wesley. The horizontal magnetic dipole (loop in the vertical plane) is found to be superior to the vertically-oriented dipole of the same size and excitation from the point of view of field strength induced in the sea at large distances from the source. A comparison with previously published results for the electric dipole shows the magnetic dipole to be better, provided the number of turns in the loop exceeds a certain minimum. An approximate analysis on the basis of equal powers also shows the magnetic dipole to be better except for points near the outer rim of the quasi-near range, where the two types of dipoles are equivalent."
"The normalized input admittance of thin bare circular loop antennas has been evaluated from the theory of T. T. Wu. Computations have been made for loops in air and in an infinite homogeneous isotropic dissipative medium. A comparison is also made with Storer's theory of the loop. Numerical results are given in the form of graphs for several wire sizes and for loops up to two and one-half wavelengths in circumference. The properties of the medium are represented by the ratio\\alpha/\\betain the range from zero (perfect dielectric) to one (good conductor);\\alphaand\\betaare the imaginary and real parts of the complex propagation constantk=\\beta-j\\alpha = \\omega\\sqrt{\\mu(\\epsilon-j\\sigma/\\omega)}where\\muis the permeability,\\epsilonthe dielectric constant, and\\sigmathe conductivity of the medium."
"Evaluation of a determinant which is essential to the calculation of the tensorial Green's function for the general case of gyroelectric-magnetic media is carried out. Different approaches to evaluate this determinant are also discussed."
"The methods used to determine the absolute gain of an 80-square foot aperture horn-reflector antenna over a frequency range from 2.8 to 14.0 Gc, and in the absence of a high-level test range, are described. A \"mirror\" range, in which the size of the smooth reflecting surface required was relatively small, was used and the measurements were performed in the Fresnel zone of the antenna with corrections applied for the resulting gain reduction. These and other provisions reduced the probable error in the final values to about one per cent."
"The radiation patterns of end-fire and broadside Dolph-Chebyshev arrays radiating in the presence of a conducting half-plane sheet have been calculated. Several values of the angle of incidence of these arrays with respect to the conducting half-plane sheet have been considered. These results are presented graphically and it can be seen that there is considerable distortion of the original pattern caused by the half-plane sheet. In general, when the main beam is directed toward the edge of the haft-plane sheet it is either partially reflected or split into several lobes."
"An exact solution is found for the fields of a spherical antenna with an anisotropic surface. The surface, for which a rather simple solution is found, conducts perfectly only along spiral lines which go from pole to pole, and is otherwise nonconducting. The antenna is either excited by fields at a gap around the equator or at low frequencies between adjacent spirals. The method of solution is described, and results of several representative cases are presented."
"The excitation of surface waves on a unidirectionally conducting screen produced by a phased line source located above the screen and perpendicular to the wire elements is considered. The screen consists of an infinite number of straight, perfectly conducting, parallel wires and conducts only in the direction of the wire elements. The phased line source consists of a periodic line current with an electric charge distributed along its length. The complete electromagnetic field is determined exactly and simple expressions are given for the scattered far field. It is shown that surface waves exist and simple expressions for the amplitudes are given. Another principal result is the determination of the magnitude of the complex Poynting vector for the radiated power. It is found that the pattern function lies on a cone independent of the presence of the screen and that the cone angle depends only on the phasing of the source. The pattern function at points below the screen is independent of the location of the source above the screen. Furthermore, the pattern function vanishes in the direction of the screen and this seems concomittant to the existence of surface waves. Two pattern functions are drawn for typical cases of interest. The power propagated by the surface waves is also determined. The method employed to solve the problem is based on the deduction that the scattered magnetic field component in the direction of the wire elements is zero. A consequence of this deduction is that the electromagnetic field can be derived from a single scalar wave function that satisfies a partial differential equation in the plane of the screen and a jump condition across the screen. This method is quite general and can be applied to a large class of interesting propagation problems arising from different types of excitation. The scattered far field is obtained using another method that is algebraic in character and does not require a complete solution of the problem."
"In July and August of 1960, a joint Naval Research Laboratory-Naval Electronics Laboratory radio-meteorological program (Project Tradewinds III) was carried out between San Diego, Calif., and Opana, Hawaii. The purpose of this project was to evaluate the propagation characteristics of the duct formed by the tradewinds inversion which is generally found in this region. Two frequencies, 220 Mc and 445 Mc, were used and data concerning signal strength vs range from each terminal, height gain data at several points in the path, as well as the gross meteorological conditions which prevailed over the path were taken. This report attempts both to correlate the radio propagation data with the observed meteorology and to formulate a mechanism to explain the presence in the duct of signal power transmitted from a point well below the duct. In general, cloud heights and types serve as indicators of the stability of the tradewinds inversion and can be correlated with the altitude and strength of the inversion and consequently of the duct. By using both ray and scatter theories, a relation is developed which may be used to determine the signal losses expected in transmission through an elevated duct in which either or both terminals are well below the duct."
"This paper describes the design and performance of annular slot planar arrays which generate pencil beams and monopulse tracking beams in both principal planes. These planar arrays consist of a transmission line in the form of a radial waveguide whose upper plate contains annular groups of linear slots. Monopulse operation is obtained by dividing the transmission line into four independently excited quadrants, each of which is propagating a field configuration identical to the dominantH_{01}radial waveguide mode. The antennas radiate linear polarization. In contrast with many other types of two-dimensional waveguide slot arrays, these antennas can be fabricated inexpensively. Small diameter versions possess the following electrical and mechanical advantages when compared to a dish antenna of comparable size: 1) comparable gain, 2) improved backlobe suppression, and 3) more compact size and lower weight. Designs have been developed atXband."
"Several commonly-used approximations of the transmission coefficient of a uniform plasma slab are critically examined and compared with a new approximation developed in this paper. It is shown that the new approximation, in addition to being very suitable for use on digital computers, gives much higher accuracy than any other for most useful values of plasma and collision frequencies. Regions of validity of each approximation are given in the plasma frequency-collision frequency plane for various amounts of error and slab thicknesses."
"The properties of electric and magnetic probes for the measurement of transient electromagnetic fields in air and in dissipative media are discussed briefly. It is shown that the effective height of an electrically small loop is independent of the ambient medium. This is also virtually true for a thin electrically short dipole (or monopole). If the open-circuit voltage of a magnetic probe can be measured accurately, it is possible (in principle) to reconstruct the time history of the incident magnetic field, even if the loop is immersed in dissipative media of unknown characteristics. The time function of the open-circuit voltage of an electric probe is essentially a replica of the time history of the incident electric field, even when the probe is immersed in a dissipative medium. For impedance-loaded probes the equivalent circuit of the receiving antennas involves the source impedances of the probes. These depend on the properties of the environment. In a dissipative medium a distortion of the response to transient fields results."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Experimental measurements have been made of the nose-on backscattering radar cross section over a range of diameters from 0.05 to 1.0 wavelengths of a series of ogives with total included nose angles of40\\deg,75\\deg, and120\\deg; of cone spheres with nose angles of15\\deg,30\\deg,40\\deg60\\degand120\\deg; of double-rounded cones with nose angles of15\\deg,40\\deg, and75\\deg; and of double-backed cones with nose angles of40\\deg. Further, a series of ogives of approximately the same diameter and with nose angles of25\\deg,40\\deg,60\\deg,75\\deg,95\\deg,120\\deg,160\\degand180\\deghave also been measured. All the present results have been obtained using two monostatic phase-locked CW balanced-bridge model measurement radars operating at frequencies of 9 Gc and 35 Gc. For targets with maximum dimensions less than two inches, cross sections of less than10^{-7}square meters at 9Gc and10^{-6}square meters at 35 Gc can be measured with an accuracy of \\pm0.5 db. The experimental data is sufficiently comprehensive to provide qualitative explanations of the scattering mechanism in the Rayleigh and resonance regions, and to make rigorous tests of the various theoretical predictions. An extension of the physical optics theory of Adachi was found to predict accurately the echo area of the ogive, the double-rounded cone, and double-backed cone in the resonance region. The Rayleigh theory was found to be generally accurate for all the models considered. The impulse analysis of Kennaugh and Moffatt was found to be accurate for the cone sphere."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An automatic gain control system for stabilizing the gain of microwave radiometers is described. System analysis sets forth the requirements for gain and bandwidth of the AGC loop. Two systems are described. One is a continuous AGC system that maintains a constant detector voltage and, as a result, the system gain is a function of the input signal. For input signals which are small compared to the system noise temperatures the nonlinearity due to the AGC system is negligible. In the second system, the output of the detector is sampled when the receiver comparison switch is connected to the reference termination. Therefore, the gain of the system is not affected by the signal and no nonlinearity is caused by the AGC system. The effect of noise in the AGC loop is analyzed and it is shown that the time constant of the AGC system can be made shorter than the final system output filter without increasing the over-all system noise."
"The amplitude and phase of a radio ground wave are calculated for an oblique crossing of a flat-lying coast line. The surface impedance is allowed to change in a continuous and gradual manner in the vicinity of the coast line. The earlier results for an abrupt boundary are recovered as the width of the transition zone is reduced to zero. In general, it is found that the presence of the transition region will not produce a significant modification of the transmitted field. On the other hand, the reflected waves and the behavior of the field near the coast line are profoundly influenced by the width of the transition. In particular, certain singular behavior of the field associated with an abrupt boundary is virtually eliminated when the transition zone has a finite width."
"When an electromagnetic source confined in a homogeneous, anisotropic plasma half space radiates into the exterior medium, focusing effects may occur wherein the influence of the plane interface bounding the plasma is similar to that of an optical lens. The existence and location of the caustics and focus depends on the various plasma parameters, in particular on the strength and orientation of the externally applied magnetic field, and the refractive index curves for the medium may be used advantageously for the prediction of their properties. After a qualitative discussion pertaining to the general gyrotropic case, a detailed field evaluation for line source and dipole excitation is carried out for the special problem of uniaxial anisotropy, corresponding to an infinitely strong external magnetic field. In this instance, the ray system and the caustics may be described in simple terms and expressions are given for the fields inside or outside the focusing region."
"Exact calculations are made of the electromagnetic field radiated by an arbitrary current distribution in an arbitrary stratified lossy medium. The medium thus characterized can include both a stratified earth and a many layer stratified ionosphere. The results of the investigation, which include the input resistance and the efficiency of the antenna, are useful for designing antennas in the ELF, VLF and LF bands. (The theory is applied to the case of an ELF-ring antenna.)"
"A mathematical model for microwave backscatter from the sea at near-vertical incidence is presented. The model, which is formulated in terms of Huygens principle, expresses the backscatter in terms of an \"expected transfer function\" of the round-trip path between the antenna and the surface of the sea. In its present form, the model is restricted to describing the case in which the microwave-illuminated area of the sea is large enough for the distribution of illuminated sea-surface area in elevation to be accurately known. It differs from other models in that it does not make the assumption that the incident electromagnetic field is plane or that the antenna is located in the Fraunhofer zone of the scattering surface. The analysis is carried out in terms of a general probability-density function of sea-surface elevation. However, an approximately Gaussian probability-density function is assumed for the purpose of working out a detailed example. The most interesting feature of the model is that it indicates that values of average radar cross sections per unit area of the sea (\\sigma \\deg), when measured at near-vertical incidence, cease to be independent of range and of antenna gain. Needed extensions of the model should treat the case in which the illuminated area size is small, and the problem of mathematically describing the boundaries between the large and small illuminated area cases. A number of experiments are recommended for verifying predictions of the model."
"A formula for the impedance of a short cylindrical dipole in a magnetoplasma is derived using quasi-static electromagnetic theory. The formula is valid in a lossy plasma and for any dipole orientation with respect to the magnetic field. The dipole impedance is found to have a positive real part under lossless conditions when the quasi-static differential equation is hyperbolic; this indicates that the quasi-static theory predicts a form of radiation. It is shown that the quasi-static theory can be interpreted in terms of scaled coordinates and that a cylindrical dipole in a magnetoplasma has a free space equivalent with a distorted shape. A conductance correction term obtained from Langmuir probe theory is shown to be significant. Laboratory measurements of monopole impedance are compared with the theoretical calculations."
"A theoretical and experimental study of the minimization of the back scattering by a thin cylinder by central loading is presented. The induced current on a centrally loaded cylinder illuminated by a plane wave at normal incidence was determined theoretically and experimentally. The magnitude and phase of the induced current can be greatly changed by a central impedance. The optimum loading to achieve zero back scatter in the broadside direction from a thin cylinder shorter than two wavelengths and the optimum central impedance for the purpose of minimizing the broadside back scattering from a thin cylinder over a wide range of frequencies has been determined."
"The electromagnetic field in the focal plane of a finite axially-symmetrical paraboloidal reflector illuminated by a plane wave of arbitrary polarization incident nearly normally at the vertex, has been investigated. This paper describes the investigation, explains the method, and summarizes some of its results. The reflector is assumed to be of a focal length which is large compared with the wavelength of the incident wave, and the plane of the aperture is assumed to be about halfway between the focus and the vertex. The purpose is to view the diffraction pattern in the focal plane by treating the currents induced on the concave surface of the reflector so that the electromagnetic effect due to them on one part of the surface is taken into account at another by means of waves of current and charge on the paraboloid. The wave equation is derived by approximation from Maxwell's equations; this is feasible because the radii of curvature are large compared with the wavelength. The calculation proceeds by finding approximate solutions of the wave equation by the WKB methods and by noting the \"turning point\" of the waves at the same distance from the vertex as that of the geodesic corresponding to each pair of characteristic modes of the same harmonic order. The modes are determined and normalized, and thereon the coupling of the incident field is computed. From this representation of the current and charge distribution the electromagnetic field in the focal plane is derived. The integrations required are made by asymptotic approximation using the method of stationary phase. It is shown that in the vicinity of the focus the contribution from these secondary currents is very small compared with the field due to the primary currents2(\\overrightarrow{n} \\times H^{inc}). The primary field is represented by Fourier-Bessel series the number of terms in which is substantially [m_{1} \\sin \\alpha +1/2] wherem_{1}= (4\\pi/\\lambda) \\timesfocal length, and\\alpha=angle of incidence at the vertex. The representation that approximates to geometrical optics whenm_{1}is large enough does not emerge until the parameterm_{1}^{1/2} \\sin \\alphais greater than unity and involvesm_{1}^{1/2}times as many terms in the series. This does not occur until\\alphais many times the angular half beamwidth of the main lobe of the reflector."
"Greater insight into the resolution and accuracy, as well as the data processing, of an interferometer radar is obtained in this partly tutoral paper by the examination of the multidimensional ambiguity function. Two approaches are used for determining the multidimensional ambiguity function. First, it is determined by the classical and more standard procedure in which the signals at the target and at the receiver antenna output terminals are found by the superposition of the signals of each antenna array element. The second method considers the antenna as a network having a specified frequency transfer characteristic which is dependent on the azimuth spatial coordinate of the target and on the axis of the antenna beam. Prime consideration is given to signals having large time-bandwidth products and wide bandwidth. Extensive plots are made for the multidimensional ambiguity function of the linear, interferometer, antenna array system. The analysis verifies the previously obtained result that the grating lobes of an interferometer radar can be eliminated by the use of very wide band signals. The results also show that a trade off can be made between the signal bandwidth and the number of array elements in order to achieve a specified sidelobe level. Furthermore, it is found that increasing the spacing between the array elements results in an improvement in the angular accuracy and resolution in direct proportion to the increase in spacing. This improvement is accrued without degradation in the estimation of the other target parameters or in detectability."
"This paper describes how continuous null tracking of a target may be achieved with a fixed pattern multiple-beam forming network with a resulting improvement in tracking accuracy when compared to beam interpolation techniques. Continuous null tracking is accomplished by cascading a hybrid phasing matrix with a beam combining networks called a steering box. The steering box combines three elementary beams in the proper ratio to form a composite sum-and-difference beam which may be continuously steered throughout the coverage angle. The change in the sum-and-difference patterns as a function of steering angle is derived for different steering loci. It is shown how pattern asymmetry may be minimized or sidelobe fall-off rate maximized by the proper choice of a steering locus. Several physical realizations of steering boxes are discussed including the steering box employed in an experimental electronic scanning radar system."
"In this paper, we derive the characteristic equation for the complex propagation constant in a transmission line periodically loaded with dipole elements. This equation is solved for real and imaginary parts of the mode propagation constants. The effect of mutual impedance between antenna elements is included in the formulation and calculation. Theoretical calculations are compared with experimental results reported by Mayes and Ingerson [9]. The usefulness and limitation of the Brillouin (k-\\beta) diagram for analyzing log-periodic (LP) structures are discussed briefly."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The conditions governing the propagation of electromagnetic fields in a ferrite filled waveguide when the longitudinal electric and the longitudinal magnetic fields have the same transverse behavior, i.e., are isoform, are discussed. In particular an exact solution for a rectangular waveguide is obtained."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A class of circularly symmetric geodesic lens antennas are considered in which each lens can be designed for any single beam elevation position. This paper investigates a method for controlling beam elevation in a single lens. The beam is positioned in elevation by radial feed movement and the theory for off-focus behavior of geodesic lenses is given. Since the beam can also be scanned around the symmetry axis, volumetric coverage is possible. A particular lens design (\\beta=40\\deg, r_{1}=0.82) is given by which the beam can be positioned over a wide range of beam elevations. A TEM lens model and a dual polarization lens model using both TEM andTE_{01}modes were tested atX-band. The beam was positioned from an angle of25\\degwith respect to the plane of the lens rim to broadside for the TEM mode by simply moving the feed from near the rim to the center of the lens."
"The rectangular cavity or waveguide backed slot is covered by a plasma layer of finite thickness. The longitudinal variation of the voltage across the slot is obtained from the variational solution of an integral equation. The solution for plasma layer of finite thickness is obtained from the free space Green's function by the method of images. The fields outside the slot depend on the surface integral of the fields over the slot plane and over the surface of the plasma layer. If the thickness of the plasma layer is large compared with the wavelength, the fields on the surface of the plasma may be related to the voltage distribution along the slot by plane wave reflection coefficients. This leads to an integral equation that is reduced to a form suitable for machine computations. These calculations show the slot admittance to remain almost constant for plasma layers of various thicknessesh. The slot conductance tends to increase forh/ \\lambda <0.5. The presence of a plasma layer affects the voltage distribution along the slot for a center excited slot. The field distribution along the waveguide excited slot differs only slightly from the principal mode field distribution in the guide."
"Some theoretical generalizations are given of two-reflector, rotationally symmetric microwave antennas fed by a plane wave across the feed aperture. So far as geometrical optics apply, the proposed designs offer 1) no reflection of energy back into the feed and 2) arbitrary illumination over the antenna aperture. The general solution is exhibited in terms of quadratures, and the reflector shapes for some simple cases are worked out in detail and plotted. Two families of antennas are found which image the feed aperture onto the secondary reflector. These antennas might be expected to have low spillover losses due to diffraction, but none of them is of practical proportions. It is shown in general that such imaging is incompatible with efficient illumination of the secondary aperture."
"One of the limiting factors in the transmission of the increasingly large amounts of microwave power available is voltage breakdown of the atmosphere. Almost all of the published work dealing with voltage breakdown at microwave frequencies has been concerned with breakdown in the presence of surfaces to which particles can diffuse. This paper describes laboratory experiments which have been performed using a focused microwave system to produce a discharge in the absence of proximate surfaces. The experiments have been concerned with 1) the determination of the power level at which breakdown occurs, and 2) the ability of the atmosphere to act as a medium for the transmission of power after breakdown has occurred. The paper presents a theory for predicting the power level at which breakdown will occur and then demonstrates the agreement of this theory with measured breakdown levels. An experiment is then described which shows that the power per unit of input power, received beyond the discharge plasma by a test antenna, decreases as power is increased after breakdown."
"Microwave-optical image formation by a lens focusing system is studied in the presence of aberrations. The theoretical approach is based on diffraction and aberration theories and a modified diffraction integral is presented, showing that previously unreported effects describable as additional primary order aberrations exist due to aperture inclination. Direct relationships are shown to exist between the geometry of Airy dark rings and the type and amount of aberration present, thus providing a means for determining the aberrations present in a physical system. The practical part of the study compares numerical evaluations of the modified diffraction integral with experimental measurements. Results presented are for the case of a solid dielectric microwave lens operated at 3.2-cm wavelength. Detailed maps of phase and intensity contours are given, showing the three-dimensional structure of the image region."
"The results from a simple, light analog model-experiment are presented. Employing sinusoidal layers made from tinfoil it is found that the experimental results compare favourably with those obtained theoretically [1]. Experiments are then performed using layers of irregular shape. These experiments show that one would expect an atmospheric layer with irregular boundary to give rise to the same general type of permittivity field, from the point of view of degree of isotropy, as that observed in practical transhorizon experiments [3]."
"The integral equations for scattering by a set of parallel metallic cylinders, each cylinder of arbitrary cross section, are solved directly by means of a digital computer program giving the current distribution induced on the scatterer surfaces, the scattering cross section vs azimuthal angle, and the induced field ratio (IFR) for both parallel and perpendicularly polarized incident waves. The present program is suitable for cylinders up to25\\lambdato40\\lambdacircumference. The validity of the computer program has been verified by comparing results 1) with exact calculations for circular cylinders, 2) with measured values for more than 40 rectangles and rectangles with feathered and rounded faces, and 3) by interchanging the direction of incidence and the direction of observation, whereby, according to the reciprocity theorem, the observed scattered field must remain the same."
"The problem of scattering from plane layered media, arbitrarily terminated, is studied. Use is made of the Marcuvitz-Schwinger formulation and of a Riccati differential equation (RDE). A method for obtaining approximate solutions of the RDE in some limiting cases is developed. The solutions are compared to those obtainable through different approaches, as well as, in some particular cases, to exact results. Possibilities of application to the design of broad-band matching junctions or terminations are illustrated."
"A calculation of back scattering from a rough surface using Huygen's principle is carried out along the lines introduced by Davies. Davies original equation is extended to include a contribution from the component of the surface normal which is parallel to the average surface. The effect of this component is to multiply the usual expression for incoherent backscatter by a factor of1/ \\cos^{4} \\Psiwhere\\Psiis the angle between the radar line of sight and the normal to the average surface."
"A preliminary investigation of a millimeter wavelength antenna based upon the optical zoom lens system is presented. The antenna consists of an axial lens system of four elements and possesses a beamwidth that can be continuously varied over a range of 7.7 to 1 at 140 Gc and 5.3 to 1 to 70 Gc by the proper axial motion of its lens elements. An analysis based upon both visible and microwave optics is presented which provides approximate expressions for the beamwidth and gain variations in terms of the positions of the lenses of the system."
"This paper evaluates the impedance of a finite electric dipole immersed in a homogeneous, anisotropic, magneto-ionic medium with parameters appropriate to \"whistler\" frequencies in the ionosphere, i.e.,X > Y^{2} \\gg 1. Although the basic formulation is also valid when collision frequency is taken into account, the computations presented here were made under the assumption that the collision frequency is zero. Under this assumption, all the matrices involved are Hermitian and the computations are simplified considerably. It is pointed out that in the ionosphere the VLF point dipole will have an infinite resistance as well as reactance even when neglecting losses in the medium. This \"infinity catastrophe\" cannot be removed by assuming small losses in the medium. It can be removed only by considering the finite dimensions of the antenna. A physical explanation of this phenomenon is presented, and some results for both resistance and reactance are given as a function of antenna dimensions, orientation and ionospheric parameters. A discussion of the far-field antenna pattern is also presented."
"This paper describes some new methods of synthesizing linear antenna arrays. The methods are developed from a re-examination of the well-known Bernstein polynomials and of the classical theories on approximation and interpolation. Both the ordinary and the trigonometric interpolations are considered. With these methods, one is able to synthesize an array such that 1) an upper bound of the errors between the specified and synthesized patterns can be estimated, 2) either the maximum deviation or the mean-square error can be made to be minimum if the total number of elements in the array is prechosen, or 3) a least required number of elements can be determined if the error specifications are given."
"A method is presented for calculating the equatorial patterns of slot antennas on a conducting cylinder coated with a plasma which is inhomogeneous in a direction radially outward from the cylinder. The procedure consists of separating the wave equation into real and imaginary parts, and numerically integrating between appropriate boundary conditions. The solutions are coefficients of the Fourier Series which express the nature of the far-field pattern. Results are presented which demonstrate the desirability of this approach to predict signal attenuation of antennas in a plasma environment."
"Radial functions of diffraction fields are usually expressed in terms of Hankel transforms of corresponding radial functions of (circular) aperture illumination field. For certain simple types of discontinuity of illumination within the aperture, it is more appropriate to use Lommel transforms. It is pointed out that the Lommel-Weber functions are Hilbert transforms of the more familiar Bessel functions, and that their relevant properties can easily be seen as a direct consequence of this relationship."
"A new approach employing infinite order boundary conditions is used to obtain an approximate solution of the problem of the scattering of a surface wave by a step in a grounded dielectric slab. The infinite order boundary conditions are used to replace certain continuity and boundary conditions in the exact problem and to reduce the exact problem to one amenable to the Wiener-Hopf technique. The basis of construction of the infinite order boundary conditions is described, and the criteria governing their application given. The reformulated problem is solved for various parameter values and compared with the results obtained by a variational technique."
"Formulas are obtained for creeping wave propagation constants on objects described by impedance boundary conditions. The solutions contain the impedance as a parameter and are asymptotic in the product of wave number and radius."
"The linear aperture synthesis method of Woodward and Levinson is extended to a circular distribution. The extension includes circularly symmetric and nonsymmetric radiation patterns. The results are applicable to the design of reflector feeds and to electronically scanned arrays where a prescribed radiation pattern is desired."
"Thermal radio radiation has been observed from the moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. The most important result of the observations is the discovery that the temperature at the surface of Venus, beneath the clouds, is greater than600\\degK. The thermal radio radiation from the moon comes from beneath the surface and gives information about the temperature distribution and variation which can be interpreted in terms of the physical characteristics of the subsurface material. This also should apply to the planets with thin atmospheres. The thermal radio radiation from Jupiter should give information about the temperature distribution in the extensive absorbing atmosphere, but the intensity of the thermal radiation is confused by the nonthermal radiation of the radiation belts and cannot be accurately specified until more observational data are available."
"Two types of world models and their main properties are discussed briefly: the steady-state model and the simplest relativistic models. In some world models there is a horizon which principally limits any observation within a certain distance. The question investigated is what requirements must be met by observation (and theory) in order to distinguish between different world models. A comparison of various observational methods and their requirements shows that the most promising method seems to be observing angular source diameters and distances between double sources by lunar occultations of radio sources. (The resolution given by the edge of the Moon is better than 1 sec of arc.) This method requires a single, fully steerable dish of more than 300 ft diameter, and a fast calculating machine. Because of the traveling time of light, one must always look back into the past if one wishes to look out into space; one would see the most distant sources almost at age zero with a large antenna. Thus, a theory is needed to describe the formation and development of strong radio sources. Without it, no conclusions about world models could be derived from observations."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The detection of the ²\\Pi_{3/2}, J=3/2 \\Lambda-doublet lines of O16H1at 1665.36 Mc and 1667.40 Mc has provided radio astronomy with a second spectral line for investigation and has already given rise to a number of significant results. In this paper the nature of\\Lambda-doublet levels are reviewed in an attempt to clarify the origin of the OH lines. The results of the OH observations are presented and the distinction between absorption and emission experiments is discussed in terms of the importance for the OH lines. The frequencies of the astrophysically important OH transitions in various molecular states and isotopic species are given and their detection possibilities are briefly discussed. Detection of the^{2}Pi_{3/2}, J=3/2transitions of O18H1appears possible with current techniques. Radio molecular lines of SH, SiH, CH, CN, and NH are also discussed."
"A discussion is given of the properties of the strong nonthermal radio sources and particularly of those of extragalactic origin. These sources radiate by the synchrotron process. The properties of the galaxies associated with the sources are described. A review is then given of the various theoretical proposals which have been made to try to explain how the generation of very large fluxes of relativistic particles (with total energies\\geq 10^{60}ergs) in very short times (\\sim10^{6}years or less) has taken place. Finally, the requirements which must be fulfilled for a satisfactory theory of the origin of such sources are outlined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presented is an image of contours of radio emission from the Great Nebula in Andromeda (M31) measured with The Ohio State University 260-foot radio telescope at 1415 Mc. The radio contours are superimposed on a Perkins Observatory photograph. This galaxy is at a distance of some two million light years and is believed to be quite similar to our own galaxy. The contour interval is 0.05° Kelvin of antenna temperature. The cross indicates the optical center and the small white circle the approximate radio center (Nature, vol. 202, p. 1202; 1964). The figure is about 3.5° wide by 4° high; the antenna beam size is shown at the top. This radio-optical presentation exemplifies the growing trend of combining radio and optical results in astronomical research."
"A brief historical summary is followed by a review of current observations of Jupiter's decametric radiation. Particular attention is given to the time structure and statistical properties of the emission, and several important deficiencies in our observational knowledge are pointed out."
"Principal antenna parameters which are useful in characterizing the electrical performance of radio-telescope antennas are defined and the relations between them are established. The application of these parameters to radio astronomical measurements is discussed."
"The role of radio and radar astronomy in space exploration is discussed and compared with present and future techniques that use electromagnetic waves of all lengths, gravity waves, atomic particles, etc. A brief description of the universe is then given with the aid of a series of scale drawings, and the possible ranges of the different techniques are considered. The place of space probes and manned space travel in space exploration is also mentioned. It is pointed out that radio astronomy is not only the most promising technique presently available for observing the most distant parts of our universe but it may be the only one."
"Celestial radio sources have generally been divided into two categories: 1) thermal sources, and 2) nonthermal sources. The thermal sources are usually masses of ionized hydrogen and their radiation is due to the random interaction of the electrons and protons of the ionized gas. The major cause of ionization is the ultraviolet radiation of the hot stars. This paper describes the basic physical processes involved in the radiation, and the methods of obtaining information from radio observations about the interstellar medium and the hot stars."
"The beam efficiency of an antenna may be defined as the ratio of the power radiated within the main beam to the total power radiated. The beam efficiency is derived for ideal rectangular and circular apertures, as a function of the edge-to-center amplitude ratio. Random phase errors are assumed to exist across the aperture. Various types of feeds for parabolic reflectors are also considered in relation to the fraction of power which the feed directs into the paraboloid. A primary limitation on the beam efficiency of a paraboloid is shown to be produced by the surface roughness."
"A review is made of radio astronomy development starting with Jansky at 15-m wavelength and progressing to 30, 60, 144, 576, and 2100 m. Electromagnetic wave propagation through the ionosphere by theO, X, Z, andYmodes including various aberrations is discussed. Methods of overcoming atmospherics are outlined. Preliminary findings at hectometer waves and the cosmological implications are mentioned. The different outlook upon the structure of the universe appears to be a more enticing aspect of the study than details about the contents of the Milky Way. Equipment technology is entirely omitted. A comprehensive list of references to the literature is included, along with four figures."
"Planetary radar astronomy's greatest handicap is the extremely feeble power content of an echo. This echo is always masked by relatively strong background noise so that special signal processing is required. The basic task is the detection and measurement of the echo power. However, when the signal strength is greater than the requirements of simple detection, it is desirable to measure the power distribution in time or in frequency. When the signal is still stronger, it is possible to divide the power into the two dimensions of time delay and frequency shift simultaneously, and thus produce a radar \"map\" of the target. Some of the special techniques and devices which are required to make these measurements, as well as some of the results of applying these techniques to Venus, Mars, Mercury, and Jupiter, are described. There are several groups working in this field and the author has stressed the work at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory merely because of his familiarity with it."
"The study of the sun by radar which was begun less than five years ago should become a valuable supplement to the study, by other methods, of the sun and interplanetary space. High powered transmitters and large antennas are required to detect a solar echo. Frequencies less than 50 Mc should be optimum, primarily because of increasing coronal absorption with increasing frequency. Routine observations were begun by the Lincoln Laboaratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in April, 1961, at a site near El Campo, Texas. Observations since that time have been made on about 200 days per year. The transmitter has an average power output of 500 kw and operates at a frequency of 38.2 Mc. The system includes two cross-polarized antennas consisting of large arrays of dipoles. These antennas have maximum gains of 33 and 36 db. The received solar echo is usually 20 to 30 db below the solar noise and signal integration is required to detect the echo. The average measured solar radar cross section is approximately equal to that of the projected area of the photosphere although there are large fluctuations about the mean. Some possible reasons for these variations in cross section are discussed. The Doppler spreading of the solar echoes varies between 20 and 70 kc and is apparently due to mass motions on the sun. These indicated mass motions are large enough to affect the coronal temperature measurements made by the emission-line broadening method. The peaks of these spectra are usually shifted in the positive Doppler direction by about 4 kc. This shift implies a solar wind at the level of reflection. A theoretical solar model is developed to help explain some of the characteristics of the solar echo. Suggestions are made for improved equipment and procedures that should result in more significant solar radar results in the future. A system sensitivity increase of at least 10 db is needed in order to overcome the effects of non-Gaussian noise during times of solar activity, and an increase of at least 30 db is needed to study the echo from the quiet sun without signal integration."
"Summary form only given, as follows. On behalf of the IEEE Antennas and Propagation Group the Chairman, Administrative Committee would like to express our appreciation to the Administrative Committee of the Military Electronics Group for making it possible to share the material in this issue. The idea for the issue originated with G-MIL, and the work of assembling the material was carried out by the Guest Editor, Dr. John D. Kraus, under the auspices of that Group. However, knowing that the subject matter of Radio Astronomy is of immediate interest to our members, the Administrative Committee of the Military Electronics Group generously extended an invitation to us to participate in the publication and dissemination of this material. The offer was gratefully accepted. We present here an excellent example of cooperation between the compatible Groups of the IEEE."
"Observations of two radio stars, Cygnus A and Cassiopeia A, and of two satellites, Cosmos I and Transit 4A, have yielded data on lower and upper atmospheric irregularities. The frequencies studied have included 20 Mc, 40 Mc and 54 Mc for satellite transmissions, and 30 Mc to 3000 Mc for radio star signals. The antennas used have ranged from a dipole to a 150-foot parabola. The irregularities in refractive index in the lower atmosphere produce amplitude fluctuations up to several times average with a fading rate of 3 to 0.5 per minute while ionospheric amplitude fluctuations can increase several decibels, with rates from 1 to 60 per minute. Lower atmosphere scintillation rates increase as the elevation angle increases and generally disappear above5\\degof elevation. During intense magnetic storms, the ionospheric scintillation rate is a function of wavelength in the UHF range. Ionospheric scintillations are functions of both magnetic conditions and of the subionospheric latitudes of the irregularities; they are observed at zenith at the geomagnetic latitude of the Sagamore Hill Radio Observatory (54\\deg). Using spaced receivers, heights of single irregularities have ranged from about 100 to 600 km and representative sizes from about 0.1 to 4 km. Irregularities constitute the prime factor affecting the level, phase and angle of arrival of signals propagated through the auroral regions."
"The appearance of our Galaxy at radio wavelengths can be described as follows: The Milky Way stands out as a bright band of emission, at both long and short wavelengths. Above 50 cm, radio emission from the rest of the sky can also be observed. The brightness distribution is highly irregular. It can be interpreted as being due to the following sources: 1) Emission from ionized gas in the galactic plane, prominent at short wavelengths. 2) Synchrotron emission from the galactic disk and the Halo, prominent at long wavelengths. It is proposed that the sources of this nonthermal emission are clouds of relativistic particles and magnetic fields, possibly supernova remnants, distributed through the spiral arms and up to some distance from the galactic plane. The 21-cm line emitted by neutral hydrogen permits the astronomer to obtain a picture of the spiral structure and to study the motions of both the gas and the Galaxy as a whole. The galactic center and its surroundings poses a problem in itself, showing structure remarkable in both the continuum emission and in the neutral hydrogen distribution. Its structure suggests the possibility of an explosion of the galactic nucleus in the past."
"A radio telescope is used in radio astronomy to measure the intensity of the radiation received from various parts of the sky. Such a telescope must be able both to detect and to locate faint radio sources of small angular size, and also to measure the brightness distribution across extended radio sources or over large sky areas. Ideally the telescope should be capable of making such measurements over a wide frequency range and for different types of polarization of the incoming waves. The noise powers available in radio astronomy are very small, and some of the radio sources have angular sizes or angular structure of, perhaps, only one second of arc, so that a radio telescope needs both high gain and good resolving power. The paper describes various types of radio telescopes which have been built and tested, and outlines the astronomical needs which they fulfill. The parabolic reflector antenna is first described, with particular reference to the fully steerable 210-foot telescope at the Australian National Radio Astronomy Observatory and to the 300-foot transit telescope at the U. S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory. Of the telescopes which use fixed or partly fixed reflector surfaces, those at the University of Illinois, at the Nançay station of the Paris Observatory, and at the Arecibo Ionospheric Observatory in Puerto Rico are described in some detail. Instruments in which the resolution is improved without a corresponding increase of collecting area, such as the cross-type antennas, are briefly described. The future progress of radio telescope design is certain to follow the development of parabolic dishes to still greater sizes, and the exploitation of synthetic antenna systems; the article concludes with a survey of both developments."
"A general survey of the principles of radio astronomy receivers is presented. System noise temperature, the sensitivity of different receiver types, and the calibration of receivers are studied. A total-power receiver is analyzed as a basic radio telescope receiver and the results are used to obtain the performance of other receiver types such as the Dicke receiver, Graham's receiver, correlation receiver, and phase-switching receiver."
"The role of radar backscatter observations in ionospheric studies is outlined. The theoretical developments are described that form the basis for ground-based measurements of electron density, electron temperature, ion temperature, and ionic composition at ionospheric heights, Observations of the first three parameters have been successful. Observation of the fourth parameter, ionic composition, is a challenging problem and is being attempted."
"The characteristics of parametric amplifiers, including effective input noise temperature, bandwidth, stability, and gain compression are discussed. Two specific amplifiers, a liquid nitrogen cooledL-band unit for a radio astronomy observatory, and a three-channel unit for a satellite vernier auto track systems are described, and the characteristics of these amplifiers are presented."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"The field of high energy research on fundamental particles and in associated areas has grown dramatically during the last two decades. To assure uninterrupted development of new basic knowledge, physicists need accelerators with higher energy and higher intensity. In turn, these new high energy accelerators are becoming larger, more complex, and more costly. Thus, the scientific community is exerting continuing pressure on funding agencies to provide new and improved machinery for research. This symposium reviewed expected trends in research with the present machines and possible new machines. Recent progress on accelerators which are under construction or which have been completed during the last year or two were reviewed. Prospects for the design of new high-performance accelerators of various kinds and the associated technological problems which must be solved were also discussed."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, IEEE International Convention Record, Part 2, Antennas and Propagation; Electron Devices, Fields and Systems, High Energy Accelerators; and Microwave Theory and Techniques  ."
"A differential phase shift circulator for C band has been developed using non-reciprocal transverse field ferrite elements of novel configuration. In this configuration the non-reciprocal phase shifters are constructed using ferrite toroids with a wire running axially inside the ferrite to magnetize it to remanence. This replaces the usual double ferrite slabs and external magnet. This configuration realizes two advantages. First, the magnetizing coil is inside the waveguide rather than outside and it is not necessary to propagate the switching pulse through the waveguide walls. Second, the ferrite toroids form a closed magnetic path. This allows the ferrite, once magnetized, to remain at remanence without having to maintain the magnetizing current. The circulator uses two90\\degdifferential phase shift sections (jayrators), a magic tee, and a short-slot hybrid coupler. The switching pulse is supplied by a line pulser which would supply current pulses of alternate polarity at the required current (30 amperes). The circulator operated over a frequency range of 4.9 KMc/ sec to 5.6 KMc/sec, with insertion loss of 1.3 db or less, and isolation of 20 db or more, at peak powers up to 550 KW, average power 100 to 200 watts. At higher peak powers sparking occurred, and at higher average powers heating was excessive and the performance seriously deteriorated. The device switched at all peak powers up to 550KW, in 20 nano seconds or less. The device thus offers, a combination of power handling capacity and switching speed not readily attainable by other microwave switches."
"The recent development of efficient microwave tubes generating hundreds of kilowatts of continuous power at a wavelength of 10 cm has motivated the first initial experiment in utilizing a microwave beam as a means of transporting energy from one point to another. The experiment made use of a CW magnetron operating at 2450 Mc with several hundred watts of power output for the power source, a 9.5 foot diameter ellipsoidal transmitting antenna, a diagonal-horn receiving antenna separated from the transmitting antenna by 25 feet, and a close-spaced thermionic diode rectifier. The overall efficiency as measured from the output of the microwave generator to the input of an electric motor attached to the output of the microwave rectifier at the receiving point was 26%. Although this experiment handled a modest amount of power over a short distance, sufficient \"on-the-shelf\" technology now exists in each of the component areas to increase the power-handling capability and the distance over which power can be transferred by at least a thousandfold."
"A molecular system having two energy levels separated by\\hbar\\Omegaand coupled to an electromagnetic field by a transition dipole moment will resonantly absorb energy at all odd sub-harmonics of the energy level separation\\omega =\\Omega,\\Omega/3,\\Omega/5.... These correspond to 1, 3, 5,... quantum absorption processes. Part of this absorbed energy is emitted back into the field at harmonics of\\omegaand part is dissipated into the lattice degrees of freedom. It is therefore possible to drive the molecular system with a field of frequency\\omega \\approx \\Omega/m(n odd), and obtain radiation at a frequencym\\omega \\approx \\Omega. Here we present results of a theoretical study of these resonant multi-quantum conversion processes. Two characteristic regions of operation are predicted: one previously discussed by Fontana, Pantell and Smith3in which the molecular efficiency\\varepsilon= (power converted ton \\omega)/ (power abosrbed at\\omega) =\\frac{1}{2}under conditions of maximum power converted per unit volume; and another region (not previously reported) in which maximum power conversion per unit volume can occur with molecular efficiencies approaching unity."
"A method for the determination of the analytical form of the nonlinear conductive component of bulk materials is described. This method consists of determining the interaction between simultaneously applied microwave and dc signals and inferring the shape of the nonlinearity from this interaction. Experimental techniques for mounting aggregate samples are described and typical test results for aggregates of silicon carbide are given."
"A type of beam waveguide which uses appropriately shaped metal reflectors instead of dielectric lenses as the phase correcting devices is described. A theory has been developed which, subject to certain restrictions, describes the modes of this type of beam waveguide and predicts a loss of the order of 0.01 db per iteration. A reflecting beam waveguide comprising eight aluminum reflectors has been investigated at a wavelength of 4 millimeters. The measured loss per iteration is approximately 0.015 db which is in good agreement with the theoretical value. The cross-sectional electric field distribution has also been measured and found to be in satisfactory agreement with the theory. It is shown that the reflecting beam waveguide is a practical system for the transmission of power at submillimeter wavelengths."
"The paper deals with purely electrical realizations of the network element, the 'GYRATOR' at low frequencies. It discusses the utilization of Hall-effect in semiconductors and the properties of non-reciprocal devices based on this effect. A systematic study of the Hall-plate, the best that can be expected from it, and the conditions under which the best performance can be expected are established; and some new theoretical and practical schemes are suggested which permit better understanding of device performance and yield better devices. The Hall-devices are nonreciprocal, passive and stable but dissipative. They permit the extension of frequency range from dc to several megacycles over which the nonreciprocal devices can be used. In this sense they are complementary to the microwave Faraday-effect devices such as isolators and circulators. These will permit greater flexibility and choice of elements for complex circuit designs, if the loss can be tolerated. This paper presents basic limitations, from an insertion loss standpoint, on the performance of Hall plate circuits imbedded in resistance or reactance networks."
"A new procedure is presented for plotting the flux-lines and the equipotential lines of a field penetrating several boundaries between materials differing in conductivity. It is shown that such a field is built of fields of point-charges in a uniform medium. This process can be applied to magnetic, electrostatic, electrodynamic, thermal, fluid dynamic, mechanical stress and similar fields with the same mathematics."
"The mathematics of tagging numerical values to the flux-lines and equipotential lines of fields plotted across boundaries is developed for the process of field-mapping presented in Part I. An example shows the application of the process to the field of a point-source across two boundaries separating three materials of different dielectric constants."
"An equivalence relation of a family of arrays defined under a linear transformation is established. By means of this theorem the far field of an elliptical array can be obtained from that of an equivalent circular array; similarly for two and three dimensional arrays. As an example a uniformly excited cophasal elliptical array is considered. For non-uniform excitation, the method of symmetrical components may be applied despite the fact that there is no rotational symmetry for elliptical arrays. This theory can also be applied to the case of continuous source distribution on an ellipse or in an elliptical aperture. In so doing solutions can be obtained without using the complicated wave functions pertaining to the original geometry. As an example an optimum array in the sense of Dolph-Chebyshev is considered. Similarly, a Taylor distribution for an elliptical aperture can also be achieved."
"All Doppler methods for measuring electron content using simultaneously emitted rocket or satellite cw signals of different frequencies are based on the assumption that those signals travel towards the observer along nearly identical paths. For satellites this assumption has not been discussed earlier. It is best met at high elevation and therefore the data used in this paper is based on the measurement of Doppler slopes of high elevation orbits at the points of inflection. In addition, the comparison of the observed time moments at which Doppler inflection of different frequencies occurs provides a mean to select only those data which are actually simultaneous. Data selected in accordance with these principles can be evaluated on the basis of straight line propagation. The actual data describe the diurnal variation of the integrated electron density during November - December 1961. This variation resembles the known trend of the diurnal variation of f0F2during December of a quiet year, as well as of the diurnal variation of the hmaxF2. Attention is focussed on an apparent enhancement of the content about midnight. This enhancement is considered to be indicative of vertical downward electron transport."
"Mathematical models of thermal and shot noise characteristics of transistors are adequate for the determination of the optimum operating point and source impedance for the mid-frequency region. However, in the case ofl/fnoise, which occurs at low frequencies and has a spectral distribution proportional tol/f^{n}, models presently available do not describe the phenomenon sufficiently for practical design purposes. This paper describes an experimental approach to the determination of optimum operating point and source impedance for transistor circuits in applications wherel/fnoise predominates. Results of a number of tests which measure the noise spectrum as a function of operating point and source impedance are described. Results of such tests are presented as parametric plots of noise factor versus frequency, and conclusions are drawn as to the choice of parameters for optimum noise performance at low frequencies. A description of the special measurement techniques is included. A procedure is developed for rapid determination of the entire noise spectrum of a transistor for practical design purposes."
"By using CdS crystals, studies are carried out on the gain and the nonlinear characteristics of ultrasonic amplification in the frequency range15\\sim195Mc. A gain of 94 db at 135 Mc is obtained. Saturation characteristics and generation of higher harmonics up to 405 Mc are observed. The observed relation between the gain and the drift field is unsymmetric with respect to the drift field and the plots of the maximum gain versus frequency do not agree with the theory developed by White. When the conductivity of the crystal is low, these disagreements become considerable. Taking into account the effects of phase shift between the space charge waves formed by conduction electrons and by trapped electrons, we develop a modified expression for the gain. Agreement between the theory and the experiments is satisfactory."
"The experimental results of investigation and utilization of the focal-region-field distribution of a Cassegrain antenna are presented. Aberrations caused by beam scan or reflector distortion can be significantly reduced through control of the phase and amplitude of feed sources distributed in the focal plane and transverse to the system axis. Inherent in this technique is the capability to correct for aberrations and also insure maximum antenna efficiency. A tubular feed array is used both as a probing instrument to determine the required focal-field distributions and as an active feed in which the phase and amplitude of the individual elements are independently controlled. The results are applicable to other reflector and lens antennas."
"The advantages of a non-reciprocal parametric amplifier over conventional types are manifest. Perturbations in signal source characteristics no longer degrade stability and power gain. For this reason, conventional paramps require circulators. But circulators are noisy, temperature sensitive, end complicate any attempts to cool the paramp cryogenically. To overcome these difficulties, this paper discusses the theory of non-reciprocity and applies it to two single-varactor paramps. One paramp operates in a CW mode, the other is superregenerative. Both units will (a) provide down-conversion and (b) accommodate signal frequencies which exceed the nominal value of the pump. Design constraints and performance characteristics are discussed."
"The further development of high energy physics through the next decade will require new accelerators capable of energies of an order of magnitude greater than presently available. A brief review is given of the current status of plans for the \"super-energy\" accelerators. Basic parameters are presented for machines in the 200-1000 BeV energy range and the current study at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory of a 200 BeV accelerator is described in some detail, as an example of the general class."
"Properties of a direct current excited helium-neon gas laser, focusing or collimation of the light beam and a sensitive wide band modulator are discussed. From the theoretical study of Fabry-Perot resonators, it becomes apparent that the gas laser for communication purpose must oscillate only in TEMoo mode. The effect of iris on output power and brightness of a laser, and relation between spot size and output power is also examined. As to collimation, the formulae for calculation of beam spread are introduced and a Galileian telescope is shown to be most convenient. For the part of modulator, comparison of three typical versions of Pockel's cells are made. The author would like to prefer cooled KDP modulator among them, because this type has moderate bandwidths comparable with that of existing systems and needs neither expensive nor complecated bulky circuitry."
"Several recent applications of the flat spiral antenna require a well defined phase center as well as a very low ellipticity ratio of the polarization over wide angles of the radiation pattern. One example of this requirement is in the Gemini radar which determines angles by an interferometer measurement with circularly polarized fields. The phase shift for the measurement is obtained by antenna rotation. Thus a precise phase center is required which is independent of antenna rotation. Another example is in the scanning arrays produced by the rotation of the spiral antennas as array elements. The model for the investigation is an attenuated traveling wave upon filamentary conducting arms of a logarithmic spiral. The model is tested by showing that it gives radiation patterns close to measurements by Dyson. It is then used to calculate phase variation across the far field radiation pattern. The phase error of antennas driven from an ideal balun is first found as a function of spiral growth rate. For growth rates, \"a,\" of 0.1 and slower, a phase center may be defined which is behind the spiral approximately \"a\" radians. The slower the growth rate, the better defined the phase center becomes. At a growth rate of 0.03, which is about as slow as can be fabricated, a phase error of 0.003 radians is found 30 degrees from the polar axis. This is satisfactory for most interferometer applications. The tilt in the amplitude pattern of the spirals with an imperfect balun (and in particular with no balun at all) is well known. In addition, a phase error occurs under these conditions which places a requirement on the unbalanced mode rejection of a balun for spirals having high phase accuracy requirements. It is found that this type of error is also less for spirals of slow growth rate. For the slowest rate practicable, however, it is found that a 30 db unbalanced mode rejection provides for no more than 0.015 radian error 30 degrees from the polar axis. Because the balun perfection is difficult to measure directly, it is suggested that the tilt in the amplitude pattern be used as a measure of this type of phase error."
"Linearly polarized backfire antennas are described which have high front-to-back ratio and very low sidelobes. The backfire radiation is produced from a meandering conductor. The principal directional characteristics can be determined by using linear array theory. When the conductor is periodic this can be related to a series expansion of the fields in space harmonics. A simple first-order theory for the periodic zigzag is based upon known properties of waves on linear conductors. The perturbations from this theory are then related to the introduction of space harmonies in the periodic case. Measured frequency versus phase constant (k-\\beta) diagrams are presented to illustrate the correspondence to the first-order theory and to accurate theoretical solutions for propagation on helical conductors. The radiation properties of periodic backfire zigzags are compared to the end-fire type previously reported. Bandwidth limitations on the backfire periodic zigzags are readily extended by tapering the structure to produce a log-periodic antenna. Measured patterns and impedance of several log-periodic zigzag antennas illustrate how the performance is related to that of the periodic structures."
"R. C. Spencer has shown that the optimum illumination which minimizes the normalized second moment of the far-field power pattern is given by the fundamental mode solution of the Helmholtz' Equation for the aperture shape. Optimum illuminations and their far-field power patterns have been obtained for various aperture shapes including a rectangle, circle, annulus and ellipse. A method is presented to calculate the far-field power pat terns for apertures of such shapes with an arbitary illumination by expanding the given illumination into a series of characteristic mode solutions of the Helmholtz' Equation for the given aperture shape. The far-field pattern for each characteristic mode can then be treated as the case of optimum illumination."
"New finite Fourier transforms and the corresponding infinite series are introduced which bring the solution of boundary value problems with asymmetric endpoint conditions within the domain of integral transform theory. Multiple finite transforms based upon these new kernels are given along with the appropriate infinite series. Using these multiple transforms the solution of the two-dimensional Laplacian for all possible combinations (15) of Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions is shown. Faltung theorems are established for some of the kernels. Finally, as an illustration of the theory the solution of the electrostatic problem under various boundary conditions is given."
"The radar target model that is the ionized trail of an atmospheric re-entry vehicle is considered as a channel or filter between the radar transmitter and receiver. The objective of the radar and its associated data processor is to \"map\" or identify the radar target channel. The target is identified as the equivalent of a spatially distributed time-varying filter or equivalently as a range and velocity distributed target. The techniques for processing the radar return from both deterministic and stochastic versions of the target model include the matched filter and a generalized correlation computer. Results of the processor output are given in terms of the transmitted signal ambiguity function and a quantity called the target scatter cross section. In general, and as expected, long time duration and large signal bandwidth transmitted signals are required in relation to the reciprocal target velocity spread and the reciprocal target range spread for accurate target model mapping. An exception is noted in the existence of an upper limit to the signal bandwidth that is useful in unambiguously mapping the stochastic target model. Alternatively, this result implies that there is a limit to the range resolution with which the range velocity distributed stochastic targets can be observed."
"This paper describes some new methods of synthesizing linear antenna arrays. The methods are developed from a re-examination of the classical theories on approximation and interpolation. Both the ordinary and the trigonometric interpolations are considered. With these methods, one is able to synthesize an array such that (1) the upper bound of the errors between the specified and synthesized patterns can be estimated, (2) either the maximum deviation or the mean-square error can be made to be minimum if the total number of elements in the array is prechosen, or (3) the least required number of elements can be determined if the error specifications are given."
"A nonlinear computer programming technique, based on the method of \"steepest descents\" is applied to the problem of synthesizing radiation patterns for end-fire arrays. Any of the array variables may be used to produce the desired pattern characteristics. The sidelobe suppression of 13 and 21 element arrays is achieved by adjusting both element positions and phases. It is also shown that the pattern gain of end-fire arrays can be increased by using a nonlinear phase progression."
"An attempt is made to determine some design rules for the synthesis of a corporate-series feed arrangement for an antenna used to transmit a signal of relatively large bandwidth. Several properties of the radiated wave form of a square pulse input are studied for several array arrangements. From the pass-band spectrum of these arrays, a design rule is suggested which will yield a relatively undistorted response at boresight."
"This paper describes a novel plasma diagnostic technique which utilizes the Raman scattering of a laser beam from a plasma. Qualitative information on the molecular and ionic species present in a plasma can be obtained by detecting the Raman spectra. Further information on the density and temperature of individual plasma species can be determined by measuring the relative intensities of the Stokes and anti-Stokes Raman lines. The theory correlating the Raman intensity with the specie density and temperature is presented along with preliminary experimental results. The applicability of this technique in connection with various types of plasmas is shown."
"Current (j) - pressure (p) characteristics of glow-type discharges are a basic element in a wide variety of advanced device and instrument configurations. Fundamental properties and modes, and how they are affected by various parameters, are deduced. Townsend-mechanisms are employed, within the uniform electric field approximation. Where possible, published coefficients are utilized to spot key features, critical points, types of non-linearities and useful bounds, affording physical insights and often obviating the necessity of extensive calculations. Using empirical expressions for Townsend's 1st coefficient, coupled with non-dimensionalization procedures, additional deep-seated characteristics are exhibited. Several j-p modes are delineated; j-levels, sensitivities, bandwidths, merit factors, etc., including methods of controlling them, are treated. An operating-parameter diagram, on which a variety of domains are traced, correlates qualitative/quantitative features and provides design selection bases. Variation of j with gap-spacing (g) is similar to that with p; the interpretation, however, is distinctly different. Where electrical relaxation constant\\lltime in which p,g change significantly, the solutions may be taken as dynamic; and distinct j-waveform responses to time-varying parameters are shown possible."
"This paper comprises development of a generalized methods of the first-order approximation and of the refined first-order approximation for the analysis of nonlinear systems with two (or more) degrees of freedom and exemplification of application of the theory developed by illustrative numerical examples."
"This paper discusses an in-the-house research investigation of ultrasonic cooling techniques. Natural and forced convective cooling parameters were measured, with and without the application of ultrasonic agitation. It was experimentally determined that application of the technique resulted in as much as a three fold improvement in heat transfer. Comparisons of the effectiveness of the various modes of agitation were drawn. The heat transferred increases with increase in vibrational frequency. Conclusions concerning the potential worth of the technique, as applied to electronic equipment, are included in the paper. One possible application is in the area of high power tubes, where a possible increase in lifetime, or increased power output, may be obtained."
"The multiplate technique is a method of antenna design that is intended to allow the economical construction of very large and versatile antennas. The aperture area is divided into a large number of reflectors that can be adjusted in orientation and height. These plates are positioned so that energy from a desired direction is redirected to add at the focus. In this paper an analysis of the effects caused by the interstices in a multiple plate antenna is presented. For a particular nonuniform plate arrangement, the loss due to gaps and shadowing, the variation in effective receiving cross section, and the radiation pattern are determined. Measurements of celestial radio sources with a test section of a multiplate antenna measuring120 \\times 70feet in extent and consisting of 220 plates has shown very good agreement with calculated performance."
"The stationary phase approximation technique is developed for scattering arrays and is used to analyze the scattering from large arrays on planar or non-planar surfaces. The analysis retains the effect of element spacing on the scattering pattern and can be applied to configurations with non-uniform element spacing and non-linear element phase delay. Analysis of a ring array, a spherical cap array and linear array with non-uniform element phase delay are given. Computer solutions are presented for the ring array to demonstrate the approximation accuracy."
"An investigation of the effects of curving the structure over which a surface wave is guided is of interest in the design of radiators in which surface waves are used as well as in the development of transitions or the bending of surface waveguides. Applications may also be found in the areas of scattering and diffraction by curved slow-wave structures. The effects of curvature in the direction of propagation are studied by utilizing a sequence of easily solved differential equations which is obtained by use of the coordinate transformation."
"The content of this paper is of interest to those dealing with complex integrals which contain pole singularities, for instance in problems of electromagnetic theory where the pales correspond to modes of a structure, and where one is interested in the effect of these modes on the total field of the excited structure. Examples of such modes could be Zenneck waves, leaky waves, or trapped slow surface waves. Although mathematical techniques for dealing with complex integrals are well developed, the interpretation of the results is not. The subject under discussion in this paper is the interpretation of the mathematical results obtained when the presence of a pole is accounted for in the saddle point evaluation of a complex integral. Consider the following integral in the complex\\phi-plane.I = \\int\\liminf{c} F(\\phi)e^{-jkR \\cos(\\phi-\\theta)+j\\omega t} d\\phiwherekRis a large parameter, where the exponential term has a saddle point at\\phi = \\theta, and whereF (\\phi)has a pole at\\phi = \\phi_{p}. If the parameter kR is large enough, the integral may be approximated by the ordinary saddle point expansion plus a residue term that is added if in deforming the path of integration the pole is crossed. Interpretation of this approximation will be discussed."
"One of the difficulties commonly encountered in field strength measurements of the VHF-UHF spectrum is the prevelance of multipath propagation, In order to make meaningful measurements it becomes necessary to resolve the various components of the multipath field. The problem of determining the amplitude, time phase, polarization and direction of arrival of the various multipath components in such a field is the subject of discussion of this paper. A direct method of making the measurements could be to use a very large aperture antenna and receive the various components separately. However, this requires an impractically large antenna in the VHF-UHF range. An aperture synthesis technique introduced by Ryle (1960) for radio astronomical measurements has been adapted by Watterson (1962) for probing a multipath field. In one possible form of the scheme a small probe is moved along three linear orthogonal axes. In an alternative scheme the probe movement is along circular paths. The paper discusses various ways of processing the probed data and resolving the various components in a multipath field."
"An analysis of a two-dimensional log-periodic corrugated plane is presented as a perturbation series. The zero-order solution is that for which the structure is embedded in a medium of continuously variable refractive index, such that in a coordinate system in which the boundaries become periodic, the wave equation also admits a periodic solution. The solution in an actual physical medium, having a constant refractive index of unity, is treated by perturbation analysis."
"Several types of endfire antennas have been developed recently which, rather than being excited by a transversal aperture, use the coupling effect between a fed TEM line and the antenna structure over its entire length for excitation."
"A practical means is described for reducing the mutual coupling and leakage of energy between two flush-mounted slot antennas in a common ground plane by introducing a thin lossy slab on the ground plane between them. Theoretical equations are derived to describe the surface mode, and experimental measurements are reported for the coupling and for the antenna pattern in the azimuthal plane. Results indicate that the method produced 19 db of decoupling without any appreciable effect on the antenna azimuthal beamwidth."
"The antenna considered in the present paper is the result of an effort to design a fan beam antenna of very reduced size to be used for a marine radar. It was desired to obtain an improvement (in comparison with slot arrays of conventional design) in the weight, mechanical simplicity, and cross section, resulting in an antenna which might be rotated at high angular speed."
"There has been a considerable interest in the recent years in the problem of radiation from apertures covered with a plasma sheath. Such a sheath is formed around the body of a hypersonic vehicle during its re-entry into the earth's atmosphere. It is well-known that a plasma sheath is highly inhomogeneous and nonuniformly distributed about the vehicle's body. The electromagnetic effect of a plasma sheath may be one of a complete blackout or only impairment of radio communication and a sufficient distortion of the radar signals and the antenna pattern to make communication with the ground station unreliable."
"It has recently been suggested that microwave antennas may be simulated at optical frequencies using the neon-helium continuous gas laser.[1] The present paper discusses in some detail the various aspects of this problem and presents a simulation example using as a model the 96 element Australian array used to scan the surface of the sun at 80 megacycles."
"A spiral antenna excited in any two adjacent radiation modes has built-in phase comparison properties useful in direction finding. The information derived from the phase comparison on the spiral allows unambiguous determination of direction of arrival of signals from anywhere in a hemisphere. The phase comparison properties are frequency insensitive when consideration can be confined to the two adjacent modes only. This paper will examine the phase comparison properties of the dual mode spiral and show how they can be applied to a very simple, passive direction finder system. In addition, the problem of a rotating azimuthal reference plane with change in frequency is treated and a suggestion for elimination of the problem is made."
"The Wire-Grid Lens Antenna is a unique realization of the Luneburg lens technique for frequencies in and near the HF frequency band. An effective refractive index which varies from the\\sqrt{2}at the lens center to a value near unity at the lens edge, is attained by two layers of square-mesh wire grid positioned one above the other. [1],[2] At the center of the lens, the two grids are spaced close together; and at lens edge, the grids are spaced far apart compared to the mesh size of the grid. This paper presents the electromagnetic analysis of the wave propagation within the lens and of the radiation from the lens leading to the calculation of the radiation pattern of the lens. A typical Wire-Grid Lens Antenna is shown in Fig. 1. The inner circle is the lens proper; a flared horn is attached to the lens to provide an impedance match between the lens and free space."
"This is a 1000-word summary of a paper submitted to the Technical Program Committee of the 1964 PT-GAP International Symposium. The complete paper will contain numerical results, additional analysis, and ionospheric interpretations."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the opening statements of the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents a progress report on the conference proceedings."
"Presents the recipients of the Solid-State Circuits Conference outstanding paper awards."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1964 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A technique is described for electronically determining the degradation in intelligibility that occurs when speech is corrupted by added noise. Primary attention is given to the extraction of the relative time positions of the speech waveform zero crossings, the computation of correlation coefficients from the zero crossings, and the comparison of the coefficients with articulation scores at variousS/Nratios. The results of the investigation indicate that the technique is useful in providing a measure of intelligibility comparable to that obtained by a listening team."
"An inexpensive electrolytic analog was constructed with aluminum head geometry and tap water electrolyte. The analog provides a convenient method for field distribution studies of a wide range of magnetic head fields or other field geometries. This simple, easily performed method produces field data which compares very well with studies made by other techniques."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Phase and delay distortions in the reproduction of speech and music have always been an important consideration in the design of high-quality systems. Early authoritative literature indicated this type of distortion could be disregarded. In 1935, events occurred in which phase delay in a two-way loudspeaker severely distorted sound effects. From this observation, a research program was set up to evaluate the minimum detectable delay that could be tolerated in two-way theater type loudspeakers; the final recommendation was 2 ms. During the period of 1930 to 1940 an intensive redesign of recording equipment was made for lower phase shift, and the quality increase is now long a matter of record."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Two paramount objectives in the design of a high-quality transistor audio power amplifier are attaining good linearity and ensuring good thermal stability. Conflicts frequently arise in realizing these objectives in that steps taken to achieve one tend to worsen the other. This paper examines these two subjects to determine the essential conditions which must be fulfilled in order for the objectives to be met. As a result of this examination the requisite conditions are found and several useful circuit techniques are developed. These techniques provide excellent thermal stability and at the same time permit attaining good linearity with reasonable amounts of negative feedback. Experimental results are given which confirm the validity of the principles and the value of the techniques."
"Point-source vs large-area tweeters are analyzed in terms of phase interference. Theoretical analysis shows that the desired upper frequency limit as well as the dispersion angle place a limit on the maximum dimension of a tweeter diaphragm. Also, phase interference is analyzed in the crossover region in woofer-tweeter combinations. This interference is shown to be a function of the physical displacement of the woofer diaphragm with respect to that of the tweeter. Theoretical findings are substantiated with experimental results."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"As the gap in a magnetic recording head is made smaller, a point is reached where the gap cannot supply adequate bias field for undistorted low-frequency response without erasing the high frequencies. In thex-field head, a vertical component of magnetization is superposed on the conventional semicircular pattern at the head gap, to give a field which has more rapid decay at the trailing edge and at the same time has a more uniform intensity through the thickness of the tape coating. A newx-field design overcomes objections to previous models, and can be produced economically."
"Wiener filtering concepts are applied to the problem of determining the accuracy limitations for a pilot-tone time-base correction system. Pilot-tone time-base correction is currently employed in speed control of tape recorder drives, vernier data correction by means of voltage-controlled delay lines in wideband tape recorders, as well as synchronized sound-on-film devices. In this system, the correction is accomplished by the addition of a stable sinusoid in a clear area of the signal baseband. After transmission through a medium with varying time delay and additive noise, the pilot tone is recovered by a tracking filter. The output of the tracking filter can be used to estimate the variations in time delay of the transmission medium. A statistical optimization is then performed to find the minimum residual time-base error in the desired signal after correction by such a system. The theory of parameter estimation indicates that the system described is near optimum and represents a lower bound on achievable accuracy. The results for the special case of white bandlimited time-delay variations are presented in the form of curves."
"A study has been conducted on the iron oxide dispersions in synthetic rubber magnetic recording belts. In order to undertake this study, new methods of sample handling, sample preparation, and replica stripping were developed. Embedding and controlled microtoming techniques similar to those used in medical electron microscopy were adopted and employed to obtain transmission pictures. Replication pictures were obtained by means of specially developed techniques. By means of these techniques, it is possible to continue the study throughout the depth of the belt 0.5µ at a time."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The design criteria for magnetic recording tapes are considered with respect to the desirable physical and magnetic characteristics for high-resolution recording systems; in particular, the magnetic properties of the universally used iron-oxide powders are compared with possible competitive permanent magnet materials. The properties of oxide and metal powders and of metallic thin films are compared, and the possibility of their future use in high-output high-resolution tapes is also assessed in this paper."
"The physical mechanisms responsible for charge transfer between the electrodes and the dielectric tape material of a dc biased electrostatic recording system are discussed. The dominant mechanism for charge transfer is found to be spark discharge in the ambient air. On this basis, a serniquantitative description of the charging process is developed which is in good agreement with the experimental current-voltage characteristics."
"The RC amplifier filter has many advantages over its passive RLC counterpart for low-audio frequency or narrow-band applications. The major disadvantage to an active filter has been its sensitivity to component tolerance and drift, particularly where high Q's are involved. A design method is presented which optimizes transmission stability when the probable \"drift\" (tolerances, temperature and aging effects, tracking errors) in each circuit parameter is known. Design equations are derived for a group of two-pole networks with external zeros. Two experimental high-Q filters are discussed including a continuously tunable four-pole filter which has attenuation of 80 db at twice and at one-half center frequency."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The object of the PAR meter is to provide a single number rating of the fidelity of a transmission system. Loudspeakers are members of this class and hence this meter can be used to evaluate them quantitatively. The rating is a weighted measure of the total gain and of phase distortion in the transmission system. This is a time-domain measuring set. The letters PAR stand for peak to (full wave) average ratio. The PAR meter measures the ratio of the peak to the full wave, rectified average value of a low-duty-cycle pulse signal. The test-signal spectrum used for this measurement can be tailored to produce the desired distortion sensitivities at various frequencies. Some of the results obtained in the use of this instrument in rating loudspeakers are presented here along with a discussion of its potentials."
"In a perfect particulate recording medium, noise would not be a function of magnetization. In practice, two types of noise occur which are functions of magnetization-dc noise and modulation noise. Both of these usually have been attributed to either nonuniformity of particle dispersion or imperfections in tape motion. The significance of surface effects has been overlooked in the past. A new experimental technique is described, which makes it possible to determine whether a particular type of noise is fixed or random relative to location along the recording medium. It also enables comparison and identification of noise produced in various ways. It has been possible to isolate and measure the components of dc and modulation noise produced by surface asperities and bulk non uniformity. Apparent anomolies in previously observed spectral and amplitude characteristics of dc and modulation noise has been resolved."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A new power amplifier is described which amplifies both stereo signals by means of a single push-pull-like pair of transistors or tubes. This circuit is derived from the parallel-type push-pull amplifier and combines to advantage, especially its output-transformerless operation, with the possibility of controlling the stereo effect or producing an unlimited number of phantom stereo signals. All basic alternatives of this circuit are derived and a complete two-channel amplifier is described, which in essence is a Lin quasi-complementary amplifier adapted for stereo. The amplifier includes, in one of its branches, a built-in polarity inverter so that it can be used with any conventional stereo signal source. In addition to the outputs for the two flanking speakers, it is provided with a sum-signal output for the center speaker, and means of contracting or expanding the stereophonic basis. Owing to the sliding operating point of its power stage, it exhibits properties similar to those of a class A-B amplifier, as far as transistor dissipation and supply-current economy are concerned. Finally, the new amplifier is compared with two single-acting stages and the resulting advantages are evaluated. An analogy is drawn between this amplifier and the modern stereo disk recording."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Playback noise in electrostatic recording is due to random electrical charge patterns on and in the dielectric tape record. Surface charges on the tape may be neutralized by passing the tape through an ion bath, which greatly reduces the playback noise level, particularly at low frequencies. The noise of such neutralized tapes may be interpreted in terms of a random array of charged regions in the tape having an average diameter of 0.04 cm and a charge density of 5 esu/cm2. Charge injection during recording changes this charge pattern but results in a similar array of smaller charged spots, 3 × 10-5cm in diameter. This recorded noise is due to the spark-like character of the recording discharge and may be reduced by generating a continuous discharge."
"In specifying loudspeakers for use in a sound system, the designer can simply list acceptable manufacturers' type numbers, or he can attempt to write appropriate performance specifications. Either approach is made difficult by the general unavailability of adequate information on characteristics of commercial loudspeakers. The most important characteristics are discussed, with emphasis on directional properties and methods of measuring them."
"This paper covers the development of an integrated solid-state amplifier from initial considerations for using such a device up to the completion of the first integrated amplifier."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The frequency dependence is derived and the order of magnitude is presented for various ionospheric effects upon radio waves which have frequencies greater than the penetration frequency of the ionosphere. Among the phenomena considered are phase-path length change, refraction, frequency change, group-path delay, polarization rotation, and absorption. A detailed discussion is given of the mean value and variability of ionospheric absorption, refraction, scintillations, and polarization changes."
"The use of signal-to-noise ratio as a figure of merit for a signal detection system involving a threshold detector may lead to erroneous conclusions when the signal strength, in absolute terms, is small. Recourse to approximate or exact distributions must be made and the notion of statistical separation must be employed. A new figure of merit utilizing the idea of statistical separation is defined. The method is applied to the question of the efficiency of a laser amplifier in a pulse detection system."
"Periodic guiding or radiating structures at microwave frequencies often possess symmetry properties in addition to their axial periodicity. These include rotation and reflection symmetries, either occurring alone or in conjunction with translations. These symmetries influence the characteristics of the electromagnetic fields associated with the structures. Therefore, useful information concerning the fields can be obtained from the symmetry properties without resorting to detailed field solutions or to equivalent circuits. These symmetry properties are conveniently analyzed by introducing symmetry operators for which the structure is invariant. This paper shows that two symmetry operators, the screw and the glide, are particularly important in determining the dispersion characteristics of the structures. Some of the implications of these symmetries for leaky wave antennas and microwave tube interaction circuits are explored, and their consequences are examined to facilitate the analysis and synthesis of periodic microwave structures."
"Triboelectric charging, occurring when an aircraft is operated in precipitation, raises the aircraft potential until corona discharges occur from points of high dc field on the aircraft. These corona discharges generate noise which is coupled into receiving systems. The magnitude and spectral distribution of this radio interference, called precipitation static, depends upon three factors: 1) the strength and spectral characteristics of the source discharges, 2) the manner in which the disturbances produced by the discharges couple into the antennas, and 3) the magnitude of the discharge current and its distribution among the discharging extremities. The coupling between the antenna and the noise source is discussed using a reciprocity relationship. Because the geometry of an aircraft is complicated, and a purely theoretical approach to the determination of coupling factors is not possible, a technique developed for measuring absolute values of coupling factor as a function of frequency and position on the aircraft is described. The spectral character of the corona-noise source is studied, including a study of how the source spectrum is affected by altitude. To test the validity of the theory and the results of the laboratory work, calculations are made to predict the noise currents induced in the two test antennas employed in a flight-test program conducted on the Boeing 367-80 aircraft (prototype of the KC-135 and 707). The results of these predictions are compared with the noise spectra measured in flight."
"Theories of noise generation and coupling are applied to the problem of devising techniques for the elimination of precipitation static interference in aircraft. The logical consequences of the theory are employed in devising several versions of a decoupled discharger capable of providing precipitation static noise reduction of 60 db. Optimum discharger locations are determined and successful flight tests of the dischargers are described. Various proposed discharger designs are considered in light of the coupling theory, and their performance when tested in the laboratory is discussed. Several antenna designs capable of providing precipitation static reduction on vehicles which do not permit discharger installation are proposed and tested in the laboratory. Electronic techniques for reducing precipitation static interference by operating on the signal at the receiver are considered. Although many of the proposed precipitation-static-elimination techniques are not entirely satisfactory, the decoupled dischargers and decoupled antennas work well enough that precipitation static need not pose a problem under normal flight conditions."
"There are four distinct ways in which two modes of propagation can be coupled conservatively, i.e., coupled so that the mode amplitudes satisfy either a power conservation law or a Manley-Rowe relation. The type of coupling that results in any particular case depends upon the relative parities of the modes, the relative directions of the group velocities and, in the case of parametric coupling, the relative signs of the frequencies of the two modes. Each of these four types of coupling results in a distinct and characteristic type of behavior. This paper presents a set of tables that summarize the principal characteristics of the four types for both direct and parametric coupling."
"The results of a quantitative analysis of the returned signal received from a rotating spherical planet are interpreted by the aid of the Cornu spiral. These agree with the experimental results obtained for the moon and Venus, and indicate that the integration of samples of the received signal is dominated by the spherical shape of the planet in spite of random surface irregularities large in terms of wavelength."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper is a survey of those characteristics of meteors, and of meteor propagation, which are important to the understanding and use of meteor ionization insofar as it provides a means of radio transmission. The subjects discussed include the utility of meteor bursts for intermittent radio communication, physical properties of meteors and meteor trails, reflection properties of individual trails, short-term statistical characteristics of received signals, and long-term statistical characteristics of received signals."
"PIN photodiodes and bulk photoconductors used as direct demodulators and as heterodyne mixers of coherent optical radiation are analyzed by taking the Fourier transform of the impulse current response produced by a single photoexcitation. This method allows the presentation of the fundamental physical processes in a manner which emphasizes the similarities rather than the differences between these two photodetectors. At microwave frequencies, the available power from the two devices is shown to have the same dependence upon frequency, and optical and circuit parameters. Further similarities are revealed by the noise analysis; in each case the limiting mechanisms are generation-recombination and thermal noise. The noise performance of the photodiode is found to be superior to that of the photoconductor at low light intensities. At high light levels, the noise performance of both devices is similar. The physical embodiment of these devices is such that the photodiode is generally a superior low-level detector (i.e., at light levels in the milliwatt range), whereas the photoconductor gives comparable or better results at high light levels (i.e., in the watt range). It is found, however, that the product of the bandwidth and fraction of the available power reaching the load is limited in the case of the photodiode because of the finite junction capacitance, but is essentially unbounded for the bulk photoconductor."
"A fast response photoconductor with a high frequency bias supply is considered as an envelope detector for optical signals. The sensitivity is studied and compared with that of the diode demodulator. The ratio of SNR for the two devices is equal to the photocurrent gain. It is shown to be theoretically possible to achieve enough current gain to overcome the noise of the following amplifier. The current gain comes from two effects. One is a true photocurrent gain in the semiconductor itself, which can exceed unity if the microwave field reverses before the photocarriers are swept out. It can be as high as the number of times the photocarriers traverse the photoconductor before they recombine. The impedance transformation from the high resistance of the detector to the amplifier input gives additional current gain. Analysis of gain-bandwidth limitations reveals no restriction imposed by material parameters, in contrast to the case of dc bias. With RF bias, blocking contacts to the crystal are useable and the relationship between material resistivity and gain-bandwidth avoided. The limiting parameters are the signal bandwidth and the bias supply frequency, the device current gain being limited to the square of the Q value of the circuit. The effect of G-R noise is also considered and conditions derived under which it is unimportant. The two cases of a photoconductor in a rectangular waveguide and in a cavity are studied in more detail, and design equations relating sensitivity to the material and to the circuit parameters are deduced. For bandwidths up to at least 1 kMc, the photoconductor in the cavity can greatly outperform the photodiode. Its sensitivity can approach that of the photomultiplier with a high efficiency cathode, which opens the possibility of extending this high performance into the infrared."
"The concept of pulse compression has stimulated interest in the range and Doppler resolution properties of radar signals, but most of the theoretical investigations to date have been concerned with single pulse signals. The properties of coherent pulse trains, a practically important class of radar signals, have not received adequate treatment in the literature. Little information appears to be available on pulse trains using pulse-to-pulse waveform coding, frequency shifting, or repetition period staggering. The present paper attempts to fill a gap in the radar literature by analyzing the resolution potential of pulse trains. The treatment is limited to the practical class of pulse trains where all component pulses have identical envelopes and bandwidths, but the waveforms under these envelopes, frequency bands and repetition interval are left arbitrary. The results of the study convey an understanding of the effects of pulse train coding and thus give a clear indication of both the potential and the limitations of pulse trains in radar applications."
"Spontaneous emission adds noise to the signal in laser amplifiers. In this paper the radiation characteristics of this noise and structures to reduce it are discussed. The structures make use of the spatial directionality of coherent light, and consist of aperture stops in combination with lenses. Their ultimate performance is studied. Signal-beam configurations necessary for optimum signal-to-noise (SNR) are described."
"An expression for the amplitude of the intermodulation products and harmonics produced in a crystal mixer is derived using the coefficients of the power series expansion of the device. Using this expression and an exponential approximation of the current through a diode [i = i0(εαv- 1)], the amplitude of intermodulation produced in a crystal mixer is found to be 2i0εαV0R0Is(αV1)Ib(αV2). In(x) is an nth order modified Bessel function of the first kind. The quantities s and b are the signal harmonic and the oscillator harmonic, R0is the output resistance, and V0, V1, and V2are the bias, signal, and oscillator voltages, respectively. The quantities i0, α, R0, and V2are found from the dc E-I diode characteristics, the mixer bias current, and the loss in the desired signal. Experimental tests on a mixer operating from 450 Mc to 850 Mc show that the signal input power necessary to produce a given intermodulation output power can be predicted within 6 db."
"This paper considers the important mechanisms contributing to drift in low-level differential dc amplifiers using matched-pair silicon transistors operated at low collector currents. It is shown theoretically and experimentally that thermally induced drift and sensitivity to power-supply variation are both reduced substantially by operating the two transistors with equal VBEinstead of with equal collector currents. Moreover, by intentionally unbalancing the passive components in the circuit, it is shown to be possible, in principle, to achieve a self-compensating operation with almost perfect cancellation of drift. Experimentally, for a source resistance of 400Ω, it was not difficult to achieve equivalent input drifts of the order of 0.05 µv per °C, 0.2 µv for a 1 per cent variation in supply voltage and 0.3 µv drift over a three day period. The ultimate limitation appeared to be 1/f noise which was on the order of 0.5 µv peak to peak."
"In the above correspondence [ibid., vol. 51. p. 1268; September, 1963], Swift has gone through a rather elaborate analysis to show that the (horizontally and vertically polarized) plane wave transmission coefficients for a slab with continuously varying refractive index along the direction perpendicular to the interfaces are the same when the wave impinges on the slab at a given angle from above or from below, but that the reflection coefficients usually differ under the same circumstances. It may be worthwhile mentioning that these conclusions could have been deduced from a direct application of the conventional reciprocity theorem which is valid for homogeneous or inhomogeneous media."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The dynamic operation of the in-line cryotron is tested by performing pulse measurements on individual devices and also by using the device in free-running closed-loop oscillators (similar to shift register). The gain of the device is currently insufficient to permit bit transfer from one stage of the oscillator to the next in less than 25 nsec. This propagation time is slow when compared to the 10-nsec circuit time constant L/R that was designed for each stage. The slower propagation is shown to be associated with the slow transition of resistance from the superconducting to the normal state and also from the normal to the superconducting state. Pulse measurements on the device indicate that the cryotron switching time is dependent upon the magnitude of the applied magnetic field. The times for switching resistance obtained from the pulse measurements are applied to the analysis of the dynamically operating closed-loop register. The maximum oscillating frequency of 5 Mc for a four-stage closed register was predicted by the analysis and is shown to be in good agreement with the experiment. A similar analysis, using the same cryotron limitations, shows the maximum frequency for a two-stage closed-ring register to be essentially the same as that for a four-stage register. Again, this was verified experimentally. The benefits originally projected for the biased in-line cryotron in comparison to the crossed-film devices appear to have been overestimated. The large incremental gains anticipated are not obtainable when operating the device at frequencies of about 107cps or greater. This limitation arises from the requirement of supplying bias at 0.7Hcand preferably 0.5Hcto allow for a fast turnoff of the device. Consequently, the static gain is not sufficient to provide a large overdrive for a fast turn on for the device. Thermal considerations, state-of-the-art fabrication, and testing procedures are discussed along with projected cryotron improvements that could lead to flip-flop time constants of about 10 nsec."
"The Ebers-Moll, charge control, and Linvill lumped models are systematically derived from a common mathematical origin. Approximations are discussed in detail, and the models are compared on the basis of their ability to represent physical processes, the ease with which they lend themselves to analysis, and the degree of approximation involved. It is shown that all three models are equivalent with regard to over-all degree of approximation, and therefore yield the same results in the solution of large-signal transient problems. However, the lumped model best portrays physical processes and lends itself most easily to intuitive understanding."
"A set of techniques has been developed which permits the simultaneous realization of flat pass band transmission (±0.15 db experimental) linear phase (to within ±5° experimental) over most (1 - 1/N) of the nominal pass band, where N is the number of \"in-band\" poles. Outside the pass band, the attenuation skirts are steep; experimentally, 40 db has been obtained within 1/N of the nominal filter bandwidth. Shunt L and/or stray capacitance are easily taken into account in the design; in particular, crystals as well as lumped LC have been used. The procedures can accommodate any amount of series resistance in inductors at the expense of flat loss, without any essential change in the computed values of inductors, capacitors, or resonant frequencies. The sensitivity of the network transmission to component errors is modest; discrepancies in the impedance level or tuning of a given constituent resonance in the network branches affect the characteristic mainly in the vicinity of that resonance."
"The necessary conditions for parametric amplification obtained by Penfield for the series nonlinear capacitive-linear resistive element are extended to the case when the resistive element is also nonlinear. The role played by the phase angle between the capacitive and resistive modulation, first considered by Engelbrecht for the frequency converter and the special case of quadrature pumping, is also taken into account. On the basis of the gain criteria, a figure of merit of a parametric element applicable to the pumped condition is also extended to include the type of element considered. It is demonstrated that, all things being equal, the most favorable pumping phase is that for which the capacitive variation at the pump frequency lags the resistive variation by 90° in phase. It is shown that of the nonlinear elements now being used for parametric applications, none satisfy the favorable phase condition. A convenient gain-frequency graph summarizing most of the theoretical conclusions is presented. Finally, it is also proved that for the case where the signal frequency is lower than the idler frequency, the highest frequency of operation obtainable with an existing series capacitive-resistive element can never be increased by the addition of a passive series nonlinear resistor, regardless of the pumping phase achievable by this addition."
"The behavior of a Corbino disk of InSb in a static, transverse magnetic field and a high frequency electric field is investigated. Measurements and analysis show that, owing to an internal magnetic field effect, the impedance of the Corbino disk shows a frequency dependence even at microwave frequencies. Measurements performed on rectangular samples show the same effect even more pronounced. It is concluded that, in the case of medium to high Hall angles, this effect may determine an upper frequency limit of Hall-effect devices which is considerably lower than the dielectric relaxation frequency."
"The diffusion of impurities in both epitaxial layers and the substrate is considered. The differential equations and boundary conditions which describe the problems are derived and solutions are presented for both the idealizations of a semi-infinite substrate and the true thickness of the substrate. Several types of boundary conditions are considered. For the cases of diffusion of impurities with the substrate considered as semi-infinite, the results from digital computation are given in tabular and graphical form. The method of application of the information to the design and production of epitaxial structures is indicated. A comparison is made between the solutions accounting for diffusion during epitaxy and solutions for a rationalized situation in which diffusion is computed by simpler means, and the simpler method is shown to be unsatisfactory for epitaxial calculations."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper briefly outlines first the history of the development of carrier multiplex telegraphy and telephony. The fundamental principles underlying particularly the newer developments of the art are then discussed. Consideration is likewise given to the propagation characteristics of open-wire lines, including those containing intermediate lengths of cable. Commercial types of apparatus and actual installations are then described and a brief statement made as to further applications of the art."
"The amplification of acoustic waves in piezoelectric semiconductors is analyzed in terms of the normal modes of the uncoupled system. The characteristics of the growing wave are presented for a range of the crystal parameters in terms of the conduction frequency (σ/ε) and the diffusion frequency (v2/D). Boundary conditions are worked out to show that an acoustic wave at the input to the amplifying section will couple into the growing wave without appreciable initial loss. The experimental results with CdS at 500 Mc confirm the general features of the theory and serve to point out two problems which must be overcome. The first is one of eoupling into the acoustic waves from an external source. Present methods are quite inefficient. The second is one of internal oscillations within the crystal which occur when the drift velocity exceeds the velocity of sound. If these problems can be solved, it should be possible to use this gain mechanism well into the microwave region."
"The successful application of pulse compression techniques depends largely on reduction of the range sidelobes associated with the compressed pulse waveform. It is shown that the calculation of sidelobe levels in previously published data is not exact when low sidelobes are called for, since the effects of spectrum amplitude ripple in contributing to the range sidelobes have either been ignored or not stated. This paper presents more recent information on this subject, introducing a model of the Fresnel spectrum that permits a more accurate calculation of the compressed pulse sidelobe structure. Additional spectrum-associated paired-echo range sidelobes are predicted as a result of the model, and are observed in practice, having peak values up to 15 db larger than those derived on the basis of the idealized spectrum assumed in earlier studies. It is shown experimentally that elimination of the spectrum amplitude ripple results in removal of these paired-echo sidelobes, thus allowing more efficient use of the signal energy when low side-lobe levels are required. A predistorted linear FM pulse compression signal is presented as a realizable means for exerting control over the spectrum function. This new pulse compression technique does not require pulse envelope or rise-time shaping at the transmitter, and thus has application to high-power systems. Experimental waveforms illustrate the reduction of the spectrum-associated paired-echo sidelobes with the modified linear FM signal, and also show that the remaining range sidelobes do not appreciably increase as a function of Doppler shift."
"Consider an ideal amplitude modulation system in which the usual sinusoidal carrier is replaced by a narrow band of random noise, of midband frequency f0and half-bandwidth B; the spectral density and the total power of the output noise of this system are determined. An optical system of this type would use an incoherent spectral line as a carrier, rather than the coherent output of an optical maser. Considerable improvement is obtained by shifting a baseband modulating signal to a frequency band much lower in frequency than f0but much higher than B, before modulating the noise carrier. In an optical system this translated modulating signal might lie in the microwave region. Even so W, the bandwidth of the modulation, must be very small compared to B to attain a high output signal-to-noise ratio."
"The behavior of an ideal angle-modulation system in which the usual sinusoidal carrier has been replaced by a narrow-band Gaussian random noise or by an amplitude-limited narrow-band Gaussian random noise is studied. The use of a noise carrier results in an additive output noise (in addition to the usual output noise due to the noise in the channel, which is neglected here). It is assumed that the system is to be used to transmit a single-sideband multiplex signal consisting of many adjacent, narrow-band channels, and that the same output signal-to-noise ratio is desired in each of these channels. Subject to these assumptions, it turns out that the phase modulator need have a peak phase index of only about 1 radian. Further, this phase modulator should be driven by a band-pass modulating signal with an appropriately shaped spectrum, rather than by a base-band signal. Based on results of S. O. Rice, curves are presented relating the output signal-to-noise ratio, the required channel bandwidth, the bandwidth of the intelligence transmitted over the system, the required frequency translation of a baseband multiplex signal before modulation, and the peak phase index required of the modulator; all three bandwidths are normalized to the half-bandwidth of the noise carrier."
"Summary form only given. Concerning the above-named editorial [ibid., vol. 51, p. 1399, Nov. 1963] we have been arguing amongst ourselves at Spectran Electronics Corp. concerning the use of choke or capacitor input filters in our instrument power supplies. Our consensus is that the writer's reasons for condenser input filters with silicon diode rectifiers are well taken. There are, however, the following disadvantages. 1) The power transformer is larger with condenser input filters; the secondary va is often double that required when the current is delivered over the entire cycle. 2) The high surge current delivered by high conductance diodes imposes severe demands upon the input capacitor. Capacitors capable of reliable operation in the input section have a high cost per microfarad. Our instruments are now being designed with a small buffer input capacitor folloned by a swing choke and electrolytic capacitor."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper traces the evolution of orbital scatter communication from its inception in 1958, as a means for tough, reliable, and secure long-distance communication, through the intensive program of research and development known as Project West Ford, into the space experiment that started in May, 1963."
"Throughout Project West Ford, from its inception until after the formation of a dipole belt in May, 1963, the possibly harmful effects of the experiment itself and of possible future belts of orbiting dipoles have concerned many scientists. The author was Chairman of the Committee of the Space Science Board of the National Academy of Sciences which endeavored to inform scientists throughout the world both of the project and of the predicted and observed effects of the experimental belt on astronomical and radio-astronomical measurements. The article represents the author's personal summary of the history of interaction between West Ford and the scientific community."
"This paper briefly summarizes the significant operational and technical characteristics of the West Ford orbiting dipole radio communication technique, and serves as an introduction to the following papers which cover the various detailed aspects of the West Ford program."
"Early in May, 1963 a package containing 4.8×108copper dipoles, each 0.00178 cm in diameter and 1.78 cm in length, was placed into a nearly circular, nearly polar orbit at a mean altitude of 3650 km. A detailed theoretical model including all known perturbing forces was constructed to predict the motion of the individual dipoles from dispensing to final re-entry through the atmosphere. Photoelectric observations, analyzed on the basis of this model, indicate that only about half of the dipoles are orbiting individually. Radar determinations of the spreading of these dipoles along the orbit agree well with the theoretical calculations. Radar observations also confirmed the prediction that the dipole ensemble would exhibit a symmetric, double-jawed structure in the early stages of its development. The ensemble formed a complete belt in about 40 days, as expected. Theory indicated that the in-plane diameter of the physical cross section of the belt would increase most rapidly near perigee and apogee and least rapidly near the semi-latus rectum points, whereas the out-of-plane diameter would increase fastest over the equator and slowest near the poles. In general, the greater the dipole reflectivity and the more isotropic the distribution of dipole tumbling axes, the more rapidly will the cross section grow. Despite the imprecisely known values of these and other initial conditions, predictions were in general accord with measurements: The \"half-power width\" of the in-plane diameter grew from about 10 km initially to about 140 km near perigee and to about 25 km near the semilatus rectum point 220 days after dispensing; the corresponding out-of-plane growth was from about the same initial value to about 25 km in middle north latitudes, where all measurements were made. The very small in-plane growth at the semilatus rectum point seems to indicate that the effects of dipole-micrometeoroid collisions were substantially less than expected; however, quantitative conclusions cannot yet be reached. The observed double-peak in the dipole density as a function of geocentric range appears to be a consequence of the particular method used for dipole dispensing. Radar determinations of the changes in the orbit that passes through the regions of highest dipole density are in excellent agreement with predictions based on a simple \"equivalent-sphere\" model, the rms residuals being less than 10 km. The most recent orbit determination, performed 250 days after dispensing, showed that the total decrease in perigee height was more than 800 km, which fortuitously happened to differ from the predicted change by only 1 km. The effects of charge drag were too small to be determined accurately, but could not have caused a decrease in mean altitude at a rate even as low as 10 km/yr, implying that the average magnitude of the electrostatic potential on a typical dipole could not have exceeded 0.15 volt. These results lend credence to the previous prediction that most individual dipoles will have an orbital lifetime of less than three years, and that none will have a lifetime exceeding five years. The dipoles are expected to survive re-entry into the lower atmosphere and to float back to earth unharmed. However, the probability of finding one is minuscule."
"A measurements program has been under way since the dispensing of the West Ford belt. It has been important to estimate belt orbit parameters over an extended period of time, to study dispersion of the belt with time, to determine the variation of dipole density along the orbit with time, and to estimate the total number of dipoles in orbit. Three distinct kinds of experiments have been employed in the measurements program: monostatic radar experiments, bistatic path loss experiments, and bistatic experiments to determine Doppler dispersion. Several estimates have been made of belt orbit parameters; an estimate of mean dipole period, averaged over the first 80 days of the belt life, was found to be 166.455 minutes. Belt physical cross-section dimensions have been obtained at a number of different points on the orbit and over an extended period of time; near the semilatus rectum point on the orbit, 30 days after ejection, the horizontal and vertical belt dimensions were approximately 11×14 km as compared with 17×32 km 200 days after ejection. Experimental estimates of the number of dipoles in orbit indicated that between 16 and 39 per cent of the ejected dipoles were properly dispensed. Measured variation of dipole density along the orbit clearly showed the anticipated initial dense region near the dispenser and the increasing uniformity of dipole density along the orbit with time."
"This paper considers the average bistatic scattering cross section of thin cylindrical dipoles as a function of frequency, bistatic angle, and transmitting and receiving polarization. The averaging is over all orientations of the dipole with all orientations equally likely. Section II is essentially tutorial, approaching the problem of scattering cross section from the equivalent circuit point of view. Using this approach, the maximum scattering cross sections of lossless dipoles in the Rayleigh region and at the first and second resonances are derived. Section III presents a novel method of predicting cross section at the first resonance with the effect of loss included. Numerous measurements indicate that this method is widely applicable. Section IV describes our microwave scattering range and the results of measurements made on dipoles resonant at X band. In Section V the averaging of cross sections is considered. The average bistatic cross sections for resonant half-wave and full-wave dipoles are plotted vs bistatic angle for various transmitting and receiving polarizations. These results, which are new, were obtained using a digital computer. The average cross section for short (Rayleigh region) dipoles is also obtained as a function of bistatic angle for various polarizations. Section VI is a summary of parameters of the West Ford dipoles."
"A complete description of the communications properties of a dipole belt is given by its scattering function σ(τ, f), the scattering cross section of a differential volume located at propagation delay τ and Doppler shift f, evaluated over the entire common volume of the belt. A coarser description, but one which is sufficiently accurate if σ(τ, f) is well-behaved, is given by the two parameters, multipath spread L (the width of ∫σ(τ,f)df), and Doppler spread B (the width of ∫σ(τ, f)dτ). This paper describes two experiments which were performed concurrently on the test belt: 1) a propagation experiment in which σ(τ, f) was measured, and 2) a communications experiment in which digital signals designed using estimates of B and L were transmitted and the performance of the system measured. Both experiments were performed using the West Ford sites described in Nichols, et al. [4]. The results may be divided into two phases. During the first 50 days after ejection, corresponding roughly to the period of belt formation, the scattering function was measured and the communications experiment performed. In general, the scattering function was well-behaved. Digital data were transmitted at rates from 20,000 bits/sec initially, down to around 100 bits/sec. PCM voice was transmitted during the first week. The performance of the digital communications was in good agreement with the expected theoretical performance [14] of diversity signaling systems. After this first period, the belt density was generally too low to permit measurement of σ(τ,f). However, the spectrum of the signal received from the entire common volume ∫σ(τ,f)dτ was measured with results most applicable to physical belt studies [21]. During this latter period the only communications signals have been teletype."
"The West Ford dipole package placed in orbit in May 1963 contained 4.8×108copper wires, each 1.78 cm long and 0.00178 cm in diameter. Radar and optical observations indicate that about 25 to 50 per cent of these are orbiting as individual dipoles. They will cease to orbit within five years. The remainder is in the form of various-sized clusters each composed of electrically connected dipoles. The orbital lifetime of most of these clusters will be less than ten years; some, however, will orbit indefinitely. The individual and the clustered dipoles never interfered with any astronomical observations. Collisions between spacecraft and either individual dipoles or clusters are improbable. The effects of the unsuccessful 1961 West Ford experiment are completely negligible."
"The problem of establishing an orbiting dipole belt of particular dimensions imposes constraints on the method used to dispense the dipoles. The technique chosen is that of binding the dipoles together in a subliming matrix material. The dipoles are assembled to form a right circular cylinder which is rotated about its axis of circular symmetry. Incident solar energy in the vacuum in orbit results in rapid sublimation of the matrix material. The dipoles are then released from the surface of the rotating cylinder. This technique of dispensing dipoles, the method of handling fine wire to produce properly packaged dipoles and the procedure for impregnating the dipole packages with the subliming binder material are described. The actual performance of the dispenser device in orbit and the results of ground tests of the dispensing technique before and after launch are discussed."
"The ground stations used in the West Ford experiment, one in California and one in Massachusetts, can transmit and receive CW X-band communications signals simultaneously. In addition, each station can be changed within minutes to a radar capable of tracking and measuring the characteristics of the dipole belt and other satellites. The high performance of these stations also permits other scientific experiments. New radio and radar techniques and components such as high-power X-band klystrons, low-noise masers, and high-performance waveguide devices are used at these stations. The operation of the stations and the microwave components and techniques are described in this paper."
"A brief description of structural characteristics of the West Ford antenna and the measured performance are presented, together with the design philosophy and characteristics of two low-noise feed systems. One feed provides an on-axis beam only; the second feed produces tracking signals and a simultaneously operated low-noise communication channel. Some auxiliary components are also described."
"The West Ford experiment required that two geographically distant narrow-beam antennas be directed at a common volume of the dipole belt, and that computer-generated data be used to point these antennas without recourse to closed-loop autotracking. It was necessary that the antennas could be directed at fixed belt latitudes, at moving points on the belt, or at other constrained loci. For the two antenna sites, special-purpose digital equipment was designed to accept pointing data from punched paper tape and to interpolate between data points in order to obtain smooth antenna motion. This equipment also permitted superposition of manual handwheel corrections on computer-generated data. The punched paper tapes were produced by a sophisticated programming system for the Lincoln Laboratory IBM 7090/94 computer. The program system also permitted convenient experiment planning, direction of the antennas to other objects such as the moon, and preparation of pointing data for non-Lincoln users."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Under high power conditions, a nonlinear response in the spin system of a maser is predicted by an analysis based on the density matrix formalism or the Bloch equations of motion. The coupling of the nonlinearities to the traveling-wave maser circuit is considered and the measurable power output at intermodulation and second harmonic frequencies is computed. For a typical traveling-wave maser with ruby maser material and a comb slow-wave structure, the computation yields P(2ω1) = 2P(ω1) - 103.5 and P(2ω1- ω2) = 2P(ω1) + P(ω2) - 92 where, for example, ω1= 2π×4140 Mc, ω2= 2π×4110 Mc and the respective power levels are measured in dbm. These levels are well below noise under most conceivable operating conditions for masers used as low-noise receiver preamplifiers and, in this sense, the maser is a \"better linear amplifier\" than others. The theoretical predictions are in satisfactory agreement with experimental results."
"This paper reports measurements of intermodulation in a ruby traveling-wave maser. The power level at frequency 2f2-f1was measured when strong signals at frequencies f1and f2were applied to the maser. In agreement with theoretical predictions, the intermodulation level was found to be extremely weak. Results of the measurement can be expressed as P(2f2- f1) = 2P(f2) - P(f1) - 95 where f1=4110 Mc, f2=4140 Mc and the powers are measured in dbm. The pertinent characteristics of traveling-wave masers are summarized in a concluding Section."
"The term \"insertion loss\" has become such a popular one and is applied to so many different concepts that it is becoming unsuitable for precise use. Certain other concepts connected with insertion loss such as attenuation and mismatch loss, are in need of clarification. A logical set of definitions and equations are presented as a suggested approach to more precise terminology. The effect of complex characteristic impedance on these equations is given in an Appendix. Specific suggestions are given for changes in the usage of terms, which if acceptable and adopted would improve the situation."
"Russian Arctic nuclear explosions during the fall and winter of 1961 are shown to produce anomalous blackout of radio signals from various satellites. The frequency range of observation was between 20 and 400 Mc. Besides the blackout, reception from far beyond the geometric horizon is observed. These anomalies of satellite reception are tentatively correlated to two shot-produced centers of disturbance. The anomalies repeat themselves at specific time intervals after the explosion."
"The conduction process in semiconductors exhibits effects associated with inertia of the carriers when the observation frequency is comparable to the reciprocal of the relaxation time for randomization of momenta. These effects can cause significant changes in the conductivity and permittivity of germanium and silicon measured at ordinary microwave frequencies and should become increasingly important as semiconductor devices are developed for ultra-microwave applications. The present paper derives equivalent circuits which illustrate inertial effects and discusses their temperature dependence. A highly accurate reflection bridge technique for measuring microwave conductivity and permittivity is then described. Finally, measurements of conductivity and permittivity of n-type silicon and p-type germanium at 24 Gc and at temperatures between 77° and 300° Kelvin are presented and compared with theory. At 77°, the inertial effects are found to be largest for the p-type germanium and cause the microwave conductivity to be less than the dc conductivity by a factor of one-half."
"This study contains a digest of Minkowski's theory of electrodynamics of moving media in the three-dimensional form and a critical review of some current writings on this subject from the point of view of Minkowski's theory. The invariant nature of the Maxwell-Minkowski equations is explained in terms of a conventional language. The important role played by the constitutive relations in formulating a complete theory of electrodynamics of moving media is pointed out."
"A laser interferometer employing a reference arm with a spherical mirror is discussed. This interferometer is extremely promising in many fields of scientific endeavor, for instance, in plasma physics, due to its simplicity and high sensitivity. Its sensitivity is greater than that of a similar interferometer with planar mirrors because the closely spaced normal modes with nonzero transverse indexes can easily be resolved in the former but not in the latter. Special attention is given to describing the principle of operation, discussing the optimum geometrical conditions for both the laser resonant structure and the reference arm, and discussing the sensitivity limitations. Some experimental measurements of electron densities in gaseous plasmas are also presented."
"When semiconductor diodes are used as variable impedance switching elements in RF transmission networks, the maximum power and minimum attenuation depend upon the characteristics of the diodes and the function being performed. Equations and theorems are derived which define these limits for quantized RF control networks used in on-off switches, selection switches, and phase-shift devices. The relationships are quite general and the limits are shown to apply to a wide variety of network configurations. It is shown that the maximum power of a switch is proportional to the maximum RF current of the forward-biased diode and also to the maximum RF voltage when reverse-biased. The maximum power in phase shifters is a sinusoidal function of the phase change required. Minimum attenuation depends upon the switching function performed, the frequency of operation, and a newly defined cutoff frequency which includes diode resistance in both forward-bias and reverse-bias states."
"The purpose of this communication is to report our recent work employing a Schlieren optical system to make pulsed ultrasonic waves visible in water. The light source for the Schlieren system was a strobe lamp synchronized with the electrical pulses used to drive the ultrasonic transducer. Preliminary experiments described here have shown that a stroboscopic Schileren system has potential use as a nondestructive testing technique. Another possible use would be sound-velocity measurements in liquids and in solids immersed in a liquid."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Equations and graphs are presented which relate the growth and replenishment of a population of unrepairable equipments to the mean time before failure, replacement strategy, and other significant variables involved. Results are presented in a satellite system context, but may readily be generalized to other applications. In Part I results are presented which were obtained by simulation of various systems on digital computers. Part II presents analytic equations and approximations relating the quantities of interest, and a discussion of an alternative computer approach."
"Analytic methods of various degrees of complexity and accuracy are presented which permit the establishment and replacement statistics of a system of satellites to be calculated. Results confirm conclusions arrived at by the Monte Carlo method presented in Part I, with minor differences as explained."
"A review of p-n junction injection lasers is presented. The literature published up to November, 1963, is fairly completely covered as well as a number of preprints. Also, included in the end is a section covering \"recent work.\""
"The theory of the low-frequency generation noise from charge fluctuation of the Shockley-Read-Hall centers in the transition regon of the gate junction of a field-effect transistor is presented. The dominant importance of this mechanism in the transition region compared with other mechanisms in the channel (thermal noise and carrier concentration fluctuation) is shown using a simple one-dimensional model at low frequencies. The two-dimensional analysis of this noise mechanism is then worked out in the gradual channel approximation using both the electrostatic field and the lumped circuit model approaches. Nonideal effects such as surface noise and gate-junction transition region noise outside of the channel are discussed and are found to be negligible compared with this mechanism. It is shown explicitly that the previously published noise theory of the junction-gate field-effect transistors neglects the contribution from this noise source."
"The microwave signal and noise response of CdSe bulk photoconductive detectors have been measured and compared with that of a high-speed junction photodiode. The signal measurements were made with CW intensity modulated light at 3000 Mc. Excellent quantitative agreement was obtained between the simple photoconductivity theory of direct light demodulation and experiment. At low optical intensities, the observed noise can be accounted for within the framework of existing theories of generation-recombination (GR) noise when the effects of electron retrapping are accounted for. At high optical intensities, nonlinear deviations are observed which can be accounted for only qualitatively. The results demonstrate clearly that such a photoconductor, when used as a simple quantum counter, will always be thermal rather than GR noise limited. Measurements show that the photoconductor as it is usually used in a nonoptimum configuration is some 50 db less sensitive than a good photodiode."
"The application of birefringent crystals to accomplish the demodulation of phase-modulated light is considered. A particular combination of crystals and a polarization insensitive photodetector is termed a birefringent demodulator, and shown to have the properties that it will 1) convert a phase-modulated light signal into an amplitude-modulated light signal and subsequently detect it in a nearly lossless manner, and 2) simultaneously suppress or balance out an incident amplitude-modulated light signal. A time domain version of the \"Jones Calculus\" is formulated and used to analyze the demodulator. Conversion efficiency, suppression efficiency, and bandwidth are considered. Experimental results demonstrating PM to AM conversion and AM suppression at microwave modulation frequencies between 2 and 12 Gc are given."
"Bounds on the time-varying parameters that are sufficient to insure stability in linear time-varying systems are developed. The important and significant property of the stability criterion developed is that the bounds on the time-varying parameters can be established from the real-frequency characteristics of the time-invariant part of the system. Therefore, the stability criterion is applied easily in high-order systems. Techniques which permit the determination of decaying exponential bounds on the system signals are also presented. The application of the results obtained to parametric devices, satellite attitude control and adaptive systems is illustrated via examples."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An X-band rising sun harmonic-generator magnetron has been developed. In order to obtain enhanced second harmonic output power, the magnetron was designed so that the resonant frequency of the second-order π mode was twice the frequency of the first-order π mode. Second harmonic efficiency, the ratio of second harmonic output power to input power, was strongly magnetic field dependent. Large values of second harmonic efficiency and output power occurred for operation in the \"valley of efficiency\" of the rising sun anode, i.e., for magnetic fields near B=13,000/λ1gauss where λ1is the wavelength of the first-order π mode. Maximum second harmonic efficiency and output power at λ2=1.69 cm were 13 per cent and 46 kw, respectively. For operation at these magnetic fields the ratio of generated second harmonic to fundamental power was of the order unity. This large power ratio can be understood in terms of a phase shift between the fundamental voltage and the current which drives it, together with a modified rotating wave hypothesis where a waving motion, caused by the Γ=0 Hartree component of the azimuthal electric field, is superimposed on the conventional rotation of the space-charge spokes."
"In this paper we consider the analysis of a nonlinear feedback system. The purpose of the paper is twofold. The first objective is to demonstrate the efficiency of the Volterra functional expansion technique as a method of analyzing nonlinear feedback systems. The techniques we demonstrate are valid for a large class of nonlinear systems. Several important advantages of the functional approach are as follows: 1) Random and deterministic inputs and disturbances are included. 2) All input-output relationships are explicit. One does not have to solve complicated differential equations. 3) Once one becomes facile with the properties of the expansion, the analysis of any particular nonlinear system is rapid and straightforward. The second objective is to obtain some new and useful results for a device of practical importance. The particular nonlinear system that we will use as an example represents a phase-locked loop whose input signal is a phase-modulated sinewave which has been corrupted by additive noise. Two interesting cases of phase modulation are considered. In the first case the phase θ1(t) is a deterministic function. In the second case the phase θ1(t) is a sample function from a random process. The results are presented as closed form analytic expressions. Several interesting cases are plotted as a function of the significant parameters."
"A new mode of energy transport in solids is described, which utilizes the interaction between monochromatic elastic vibrations to produce a collective wave traveling with a velocity only slightly slower than the speed of sound. The phenomenon is similar in concept to the propagation of \"second sound\" in liquid He II. The vibrational state of a solid is first described in terms of a set of quantized lattice harmonic oscillators or phonons. By analogy with the kinetic theory of sound propagation in an ordinary particle gas, it is then shown that a phonon-density wave can propagate in this phonon gas. This corresponds to a wave-like transport of heat through the solid. The conditions for this mode of transport are described and compared to those for the usual diffusion of heat. It is shown that these conditions can be satisfied in piezoelectric semiconductors for a restricted band of phonon frequencies when the electrons drift in an applied field at a speed greater than the speed of sound. The electron-phonon interaction processes which produce this behavior are described graphically, and the frequency and temperature dependence of the interaction is discussed. Experimental observations in photoconducting CdS, a piezo-electric semiconductor, are described which appear to verify these predictions. Pulse propagation experiments at room temperature show a velocity corresponding to the collective mode, and the properties vary as predicted with changes of electron drift velocity and of temperature. A mechanism for the excitation and detection of the collective wave is suggested. The nonlinear processes leading to the generation of elastic waves at harmonics of the input frequency are also described."
"Given the complete linear equivalent circuit of a tunnel diode, a new sufficient condition is presented for the diode to be \"potentially stable,\" where the diode is \"potentially stable\" if all open circuit natural frequencies can be shifted to the left half of the complex frequency plane, by properly imbedding the tunnel diode in a two terminal passive network."
"Thermal-electric interaction or \"internal thermal feedback\" occurs in temperature dependent devices and four-poles at low frequencies, if the thermal time constants are small. An electrical equivalent circuit which describes this thermal effect is generally derived and applied to transistors in common base and common emitter configuration. It consists of current sources and of resistance-inductance circuits which can be directly related to the thermal equivalent circuit of the device. It is shown that this thermal feedback should not be neglected in the measurement of high-frequency transistors, in the design of dc or video amplifiers and voltage or current regulators. Some measurements are reported and discussed. For instance, a strong frequency dependence of some four-pole parameters, especially of the forward trans-conductance y21and the short circuit output admittance y22eof high frequency transistors was found at frequencies below 1 Mc. These effects can be explained by the new equivalent circuit. Possible application of this thermal-electric interaction may include the realization of large low Q inductances for low frequency integrated circuitry, and perhaps the investigation of pinch-in and second breakdown effects. It appears that the low frequency noise figure of transistors may also be affected by this effect."
"The fact that many complex counting and decision functions can be realized quite simply with threshold gates suggests that they may be used to considerable advantage in problems of character recognition. A simplified recognition problem is considered involving the identification of any one of 12 letters when it is superimposed on an m × n matrix. Translation, stretching, and compression of the letter are permitted. It is shown that the number of threshold gates required increases linearly as do the dimensions of the matrix with about 300 gates being necessary for a 20 × 20. On such a matrix, several hundred thousand configurations of the 12 letters can be correctly identified with each pattern being insensitive to varying degrees of \"noise.\" A threshold gate having the necessary fan power for this application is described together with its implementation in a small experimental model. Extensions of the methods to include rotation and magnification are discussed."
"Tables of element values are presented for lumped-element Chebyshev impedance-transforming networks, as are tables giving the Chebyshev passband ripple of each design. These circuits consist of a ladder network formed using series inductances and shunt capacitances; they give a Chebyshev impedance match between resistor terminations of arbitrary ratio (designs with resistor termination ratios from 1.5 to 50 are tabulated). The responses of these networks have moderately high attenuation at dc (the amount of attenuation depends on the termination ratio); their attenuation then falls to a very low level in the Chebyshev operating band, and then rises steeply above the operating band in a manner typical of low-pass filters. Designs having operating-band fractional bandwidths ranging from 0.2 to 1.0 are given. These impedance-transforming networks can be realized in lumped-element form for low-frequency applications, and in semilumped-element form (such as corrugated waveguide) at microwave frequencies."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The beam in a cathode-ray tube is described by a \"paraxial\" Liouville equation. This equation takes into account the thermal spread of the electrons as well as the influence of the space charge of the beam. The solution of this equation is given. An ordinary differential equation is derived for the beam radius. The equation has been solved in the field-free region outside the gun. The result is presented in graphs which can be applied to the determination of the spot size on the screen of a cathode-ray tube."
"For any stable linear system with kernel K(t, τ), we derive a formula for the input waveform W(t) which maximizes |R(T)| the absolute value of the output waveform at a prescribed time instant T, subject to the constraints that |W(t)| ≤ A and ∫-∞∞[W(t)]2dt ≤ E, where A and E are prescribed positive constants. The input and output are related by the formula R(t) = ∫-∞∞K(t, τ)W(τ)dτ. Roughly, the optimum W(t) can be found by scaling the system kernel function appropriately and then \"clipping\" it at the value A. The problem and the solution are closely related to the matched filter problem of radar theory and the \"bang-bang\" problem of optimal control theory and their solutions. The well-known results of these problems appear as special cases of our solution when A or E, respectively, becomes sufficiently large. Theoretically, this problem is of interest because of the incompatible nature of the constraints. That is, the combination of constraints prevents one from using standard optimization tools. Practically, in addition to its direct application in signal design, our solution can also be used indirectly, since it provides a standard of performance for more realistic situations where additional constraints, such as range resolution in radar, are important. The solution is justified in three different ways, providing a comparison of optimization techniques and an example of the Pontryagin Maximum Principle."
"Previous studies1,2of the electrical properties of thin-film low-density deposits of insulators have led us to investigate their application as electrostatic storage targets. It was found that the charge image on the target is not only established by transmitted secondary electrons but that the backward conduction of secondary electrons through the layer also contributes to the amplifying mechanism. Free electrons created by the incident primary electron which are normally not observed as emitted secondary electrons can be conducted through the voids of the low-density layer to the target signal plate under the action of an electric field. This mechanism leads to an efficient conversion of photoelectrons with several kev energy into a large number of positive charge centers on the surface of the layer which are accessible to a low-energy reading beam. The secondary electron conduction (SEC) effect provides, therefore, high target gain while solid-state time lag does not occur. The high resistivity of such layers, many orders of magnitude greater than that of insulators in bulk form, is advantageous for long-time integration and storage. The target has a large storage capacity useful not only to provide a wide dynamic range, but also to accommodate the more intense signals required for low contrast image detection. The capacity is small enough, however, to eliminate discharge lag. Compatibility of the SEC target with standard photosurfaces, such as S-11, S-20, and various ultraviolet sensitive types, has been demonstrated in sealed-off tubes. The performance of SEC vidicon tubes is reported, and it is concluded that the SEC target offers the potential of overcoming several limitations found in present day camera tubes."
"General principle is presented which states that all of the properties of any planar antenna can be determined completely from any piece of its TE and TM partial pattern functions. The principle is based on the analytic properties of the pattern functions and on the fact that the aperture and pattern functions are related through the Fourier integral. It applies to much of antenna theory, transient as well as steady state. An interesting application is an analytic extension of the classical Poynting vector method as a means for determining input reactance, in addition to radiation resistance, of an antenna from its radiation pattern."
"An orthogonal detection system has been developed which can extract any one of two double-sideband signals sharing very nearly the same radio-frequency spectrum. No specific relationships in frequency, phase, or amplitude between the two double-sideband carrier waveforms are required. The presence of thermal noise or other uncorrelated waveforms degrades the signal-to-noise ratio of the desired separated signals from about 3 db to 10 db for 90 per cent of the possible co-channel carrier frequency differences. Departures from ideal component characteristics and signal processing may introduce further degradation. An experimental breadboard was developed and tested. An improvement over a conventional diode envelope detector of +25 db was measured for -12 db signal-to-interference ratio. If a sampling technique were employed, it is estimated that an additional 15 db improvement could be realized. The implication is that signals associated with other types of conventionally modulated waveforms sharing very nearly the same spectrum are reasonably separable provided that the channel capacity is not fully utilized."
"A system is presented for measuring the impedance of a dipole antenna on a satellite orbiting in the ionosphere. These impedance variations are used to determine the electron density of the ionosphere. Details of the instrumentation are given. Experimental results from many satellite flights are given in the form of antenna impedance to aid in antenna engineering. Electron density profiles are also presented. The density data show interesting spatial and temporal variations. Discussion is made of the electron density in the vehicle wake."
"This paper presents a dynamic analysis of an extremely wide-band FM line discriminator consisting of a pair of transmission lines and coupling resistors. The relationship between the harmonic distortion of the output waveform of the discriminator and the permissible frequency deviation of the input signal is analyzed in detail by the method of Fourier transform. It is shown that the coupling resistor constant γ (see Fig. 1) should be set at unity from the viewpoint of the sensitivity of the discriminator and the constant input impedance of the discriminator over the frequency deviation of the input signal. Theoretically, an FM signal having 100 per cent frequency deviation could be detected by this discriminator with 2.67 per cent harmonic distortion while the input impedance of the discriminator remains constant (equal to characteristic impedance of the transmission line Z0) during the frequency deviation. Experimental results are presented to verify the theoretical results obtained. The characteristic curve of the discriminator is linear for 40 per cent frequency deviation from the carrier frequency 85.5 Mc, and its input impedance remains within ±14 per cent of the idea value Z0."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A review is made of those physical properties of semiconductors which are relevant to device operation at cryogenic temperatures. These include carrier density, mobility, hot carrier phenomena, recombination and trapping, and the performance of p-n junctions. A description is then given of the cryogenic operation of semiconductor devices together with an assessment of future possibilities."
"There have been several interesting solid-state plasma effects reported in the literature; to date, emphasis has been placed on understanding the various phenomena rather than device construction. However, since there are microwave device potentials in the form of both passive elements such as isolators, circulators and switches, and active elements such as amplifiers, and generators, it is expected that future work will include device aspects."
"During the last few years, generation and propagation of acoustic waves have been extended to frequencies high into the gigacycle region. This paper deals with microwave acoustics, with emphasis on effects and techniques utilized at cryogenic temperatures. The extremely short wavelengths require the use of single crystal propagation media, free from defect scattering, supercooled to reduce wave attenuation from phonon interactions. Interactions of acoustic phonons with other phonons, electrons or holes, and spin waves are possible, with interchanges of energy that can produce attenuation or amplification of acoustic waves. The fundamental characteristics of acoustic wave propagation in crystanine media are discussed, with a review of experimental techniques and results. Microwave acoustic waves in solids and transducers suited to generation and detection are discussed, and a basic analysis of plane wave piezoelectric coupling is presented."
"Successive acoustic echo amplitudes have been calculated from a model for microwave frequency acoustic propagation based on ray optics that ignores any intrinsic attenuation. The computed echoes resemble experimental acoustic decay patterns generated by microwave pulses in single crystals of piezoelectric materials. The attenuation has been found to be due to off-axis propagation of the acoustic energy in the crystal and to acoustic phase averaging by the microwave transducers used to couple energy in and out of the crystal. Calculated acoustic echo patterns show the changes caused by various crystal orientations and different crystal endface parallelisms at several frequencies. It is found that the number of echoes and the amplitude of the last few echoes are frequency independent and are determined by the crystal geometry alone. On the other hand, the character of all but the last few echoes is dominated by phase averaging effects over the crystal end wall and is strongly frequency-dependent. Experimental data is presented showing the changes in the nulls and maximums of the echo patterns with frequency and the changes in acoustic patterns produced by altering the endface parallelism by flexing the crystal. Measured acoustic echo patterns of flexed and unflexed crystals are discussed. It is shown that flexing has increased the number of observable echoes by factors from 4 to 10 for various samples, has improved the average intensity of comparable echoes by amounts varying from 4 to 14 db, and has reduced the apparent acoustic attenuation from an unflexed value of 1.86×10-1db/cm to 1.63×10-2db/cm for a particular sample."
"The major features of the interaction of microwaves with superconductors are discussed and interpreted in terms of simple phenomenological models. Three limiting cases are treated: the \"Pippard limit\" which usually holds when the normal state mean free path is large; the \"London limit\" for small normal state mean free path; and thin films. A section is devoted to the nonlinear properties of superconductors and another to recent microwave studies of superconducting tunneling phenomena."
"This paper discusses the mechanisms affecting metallic conduction and dielectric properties in relation to a low temperature transmission line to provide a basis for analysis of the characteristic change, and the remaining losses at low temperature. Specific attention is given to lines employing Teflon or polyethylene as dielectrics, and operating up to 10 Gc. The construction and measured performance of a number of long superconductive coaxial lines is given in support of the analytical results."
"This paper reviews briefly the tunneling mechanisms through a thin insulating barrier between two metals and mentions some device applications based on these mechanisms. Three different cases are described: tunneling between metals both in the normal (nonsuperconductive) state, tunneling between them when one or both are superconductive, and Josephson tunneling through a very thin barrier between superconductors."
"The phenomenon of superconductivity is particularly attractive for computer memories because of the potential low cost per bit stored for memories larger than several million bits. Approximate expressions for the drive requirements of cryoelectric continuous film memories are developed based on Ginzburg-Landau theory. It is shown that crossed-film cryotrons can be matched to continuous film memories. Expressions for the sense output voltages for both line sense and cavity sense are given and compared with experiment. Sense voltages of one millivolt are obtainable from properly designed memories. Fabrication problems reduce the available geometrical tolerance in a memory array to an estimated ten per cent. The future of cryoelectric memories rests entirely on fabrication techniques, particularly in the ability to control impurities and grain parameters in the memory film."
"Problems and requirements associated with using the cryogenic continuous film memory (CCFM) cell in a random access memory with coincident current cell selection are discussed. Pulse measurement techniques are described which provide informarion on the storage level within the cell and on the basis of several simple a sumptions, permit the operating range (drive current tolerance) of the cell in a memory array to be calculated. The influence of nonideal superconducting to normal phase transitions on storage levels is discussed as is the effect of various memory disturb programs on cell operation. The restricted operating limits of the CCFM cell are found to place requirements on cell uniformity which severely tax today's thin film capabilities."
"A 5000 word, 72-bit per word cryogenic associative processor has been designed in considerable detail. In addition to the basic associative features, this processor features sorting, selective writing, marking, and next higher, next lower, and range retrieving. The physical and logical structures of the system are described, and the low temperature and room temperature requirements are outlined. The reasons for choosing the outlined configuration are also discussed."
"This report shows that crossed film cryotrons can be cascaded to form high-gain, high-sensitivity amplifiers if negative feedback is applied to counteract a large low-frequency noise component. The design of cryotron feedback amplifiers is analyzed, and several practical amplifier circuits are described. One of these has an upper cutoff frequency of 1.7 Mc per stage, and another can detect 5×10-11v at 1000 cps with a 45 kc bandwidth. These figures are believed to represent an order of magnitude improvement in speed and sensitivity over previous low-noise amplifiers designed to sense low impedance cryogenic sources. The report also includes new data on the effect of control width on crossed film cryotron characteristics, and describes a method of obtaining an arbitrarily large output voltage from a cryotron circuit, without any sacrifice in bandwidth."
"Thin film superconductors will find significant applications as computer components only if their potential for economical high density integration in a single unit of manufacture becomes a reality. This paper will describe a fabrication process based on the use of photomask-photoresist techniques to form multilayered devices which meet these requirements. This process is compared with that formerly used, based on mask stencil techniques, to illustrate the significance of this development with respect to 1) cryotron device densities, 2) process complexity, 3) electrical and structural characteristics of devices, and 4) circuit design considerations. The major advances made as a result of this process innovation are related to prospects for significant computer component applications."
"This paper describes a cryogenic electronic variable inductor called the ryotron. This device may be represented as a dc-isolated two-port network useful for both digital and analog circuits. Included are 1) general introduction, 2) the principle of operation, 3) experimental results, 4) device applications, and 5) discussion."
"Thin-film superconducting devices, called ryotrons, are capable of steering currents between paths by controlling the inductance in each branch. A number of different ryotron geometries are considered and analyzed. The ratio between the extreme inductance states of the ryotron is determined by the detailed configuration and by material properties. Inductance ratios as large as 146 have been observed. Using a favorable geometry, called the horseshoe ryotron, binary selection trees have been designed and operated. With a three-level, eight-output tree, the steady-state current division was achieved in 3.5×10-9seconds."
"A method for depositing thin, superconductive films of Nb and Ta by electron beam evaporation is presented, and the critical temperature of these films is discussed as a function of deposition conditions. Gettering, increasing the ratio of impinging vapor atoms to residual gas atoms, and raising the substrate temperature during deposition gives films with a lower impurity content and higher critical temperature. The resistance ratio of a film and its x-ray lattice parameter are taken as measures of its average impurity concentration. Critical temperatures above 9°K are measured for Nb films of resistance ratio of 3 or higher, and critical temperatures above 4.2°K are measured for Ta films of resistance ratio of 5 or higher."
"The design and construction of a superconducting Helmholtz pair capable of delivering magnetic fields of sufficient uniformity over a practical working volume to perform a nuclear magnetic resonance experiment is described in this paper. Provision for achieving ac field modulation with a superconducting coil is also made."
"Recently, there have evolved graphical techniques to facilitate transistor amplifier design using a sampled parameter approach. Specifically, a method suggested by Linvill1,2 has found acceptance at VHF and UHF frequencies. Since transistors with useful power gains in the Lband region have become available, it was natural to attempt to extend this technique to the higher frequencies. This communication describes a laboratory amplifier, designed and built using the above mentioned technique. The power gain was measured to be 103 db when the amplifier was tuned for maximum power gain. The load and source admittances that were presented to the transistor were measured on a General Radio immitance bridge and excellent correlation was found between measured values and those calculated from the Linvill approach. This measured noise figure wasf ound to be 8 db (calculated, 7.62 db). From the good correlation obtained between theory and practice, in the above experiment, the Linvill method of amplifier design at 1 Gc has been demonstrated to be an excellent tool in the hands of the design engineer."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Long-distance, high-capacity transmission using a light beam in a beam waveguide is an attractive project for optical communications. However, the transmission of energy in the form of a beam gives rise to a new problem, that is, the stability of a sharp beam. In this paper, the stability problems of a Gaussian beam in a beam waveguide are presented. The deflection and the spot-size variation of a beam in the waveguide with known imperfections, such as transverse displacements of lenses, variation in focal length, and so on, are studied. If the transverse displacements of the lenses are periodic in space, instability of the beam path may occur. The unstable condition is derived. The variation of the spot size at the lenses is obtained in terms of small perturbations of the ideal waveguide. If the incident beam from a laser is not matched to the mode of the waveguide, the spot size at the lenses varies periodically. Statistical results for the models of a waveguide with random lenses, having random transverse position, random spacing, and random focal length, are also given."
"The present experimental and theoretical study has been designed to uncover the mechanism underlying the rapid recovery of electrical strength of a short vacuum gap after arcing. In the experiment the contacts were of gas-free silver and the contact area and gap length were varied. Recovery strength was measured following the forced extinction of a 250 amp arc in 0.5 µsec. This rapid cutoff of current has revealed detail in vacuum arc recovery curves which is difficult to observe by other experimental techniques. The experimental results show that the gap recovery times range from 1 to 30 µsec depending on the gap proportions. Recovery is most rapid for large diameter contacts which are closely spaced. In the theoretical analysis, the recovery times for various gap proportions were calculated by following the decay of the metal vapor density in the gap from an initial density, present at arc extinction, to a final critical density characteristic of full gap recovery. The reasonable agreement between the measured and calculated recovery times lends support to a model in which condensation of metal vapor on the contacts plays a decisive role in the rapid recovery of electrical strength in a vacuum gap after arcing."
"A novel design of a thermionic generator for use on re-entry vehicles is analyzed analytically and experimentally. Equations are derived for prediction of the output current, output power, and conditions of maximum power for the device. The electrical power output potential of a typical re-entry vehicle is obtained by solving the temperature history of a thin-walled emitter. Given the wall temperature and the work function, the saturated Richardson current is easily obtained. Other parameters needed for predicting output power are obtained from curves in the literature. To simulate re-entry conditions, a test model was built and inserted in either a nitrogen or argon plasma jet. Graphite, thoriated tungsten, tungsten and molybdenum were used for the emitter and collector. Of the materials tested, graphite was the only material that met, to some degree, the qualifications needed for operation of the hypersonic plasma thermionic generator."
"A regenerative oscillator is considered to be a dissipative tank circuit to which is added a regenerative element in the form of a negative resistance the value of which depends upon the square of the circuit voltage delayed by an RC filter. Use of the phasor concept and normalization of all parameters lead to relatively simple nonlinear equations. They are studied analytically and by means of an electronic computer for the three cases of 1) the free running oscillator 2) the noise perturbed oscillator, and 3) the continuous wave perturbed oscillator."
"Ionospherics, electromagnetic waves originating somewhere in the ionosphere or the magnetosphere of the earth, have been recorded for more than six years in the audio-frequency band at the Whistlers-East chain of ground-based receiving stations which extend approximately along the 0° geomagnetic meridian from Labrador to Antarctica. This has made it possible to study the latitude dependence of: 1) the local time of maximum occurrence of the various types of audio-frequency emissions, 2) the shape of the diurnal occurrence curves, 3) the rate of occurrence, and 4) the effects of geomagnetic disturbances upon the occurrence. Some of the results and conclusions of a comprehensive analysis of these synoptic data are: 1) At middle- and high-latitude stations the occurrence or nonoccurrence of audio-frequency emissions appears to be controlled mainly by the emission processes rather than by the subsequent propagation of the emitted wave through the magnetosphere and the ionosphere. This is contrary to what we have concluded about the occurrence of whistlers. Propagation conditions apparentally do become controlling at low latitudes, and at all latitudes at times of severe geomagnetic disturbances. 2) At middle-latitude stations, audio-frequency emissions are essentially a geomagnetic storm-time phenomenon. At high latitudes, the emissions are more likely to be observed under geomagnetically quiet conditions. 3) At a given station, the correlation between the occurrence of audio-frequency emissions and the level of geomagnetic activity is practically the same for all major types of emissions, although different types of emissions tend to occur at different times of the day. The correlation shows no significant seasonal variation (except possibly at Knob Lake). 4) At some stations, the local time of maximum occurrence of chorus remains surprisingly constant from season to season and from year to year. Moreover, when seasonal data of these stations are averaged over a long period of time, it is found that chorus shows no preference for any season (Dartmouth and Ellsworth). 5) At the two stations of the Whistlers-East network closest to the equator (Bermuda and Port Lockroy), chorus is almost absent in local summer but in local winter the activity is relatively high, displaying a maximum of occurrence appproximately at the same time as at stations more than ten degrees closer to the poles. 6) At high latitudes, on the other hand, more chorus is observed in local summer than in local winter. The local time of maximum occurrence of chorus at high latitudes depends on the level of geomagnetic activity, quiet-day chorus peaking later than disturbed-day chorus. 7) The diurnal variation of hiss also depends on latitude, season, and geomagnetic activity. It peaks near midday in latitudes above Dartmouth but develops a deep midday depression at Dartmouth in local summer and fall and in all seasons in lower latitudes. 8) In the northern hemisphere at sunspot maximum, in the longitude of the Whistlers-East chain, the activity of audio-frequency emissions appears to be highest at a geomagnetic latitude of about 60°. The activity decreases only slowly toward the poles but rapidly below about 50°. As the solar activity has subsided, the region of maximum activity has moved farther north. A corresponding situation is found in the magnetically conjugate region of the southern hemisphere."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Integrated electronics promises to increase both the rate of change within the electronics industry and the pervasiveness of electronics as a whole, making it possible to remove very fundamental and interrelated limitations to applying the knowledge and tools of electronics, the most harassing of which have been reliability, cost, complexity, and that imposed by the specialized character of and relative sophistication of the science, engineering, and art of electronics. Evaluating the history, current status and the likely future of integrated electronics, it seems now highly probable that this new technology may introduce a terminal phase in which electronics will pervade all segments of our society to which it has pertinence. Basic requirements to ensure this appear to be 1) A relatively concentrated, highly-automated industrial complex to supply integrated circuitry and closely related compatible discrete componentry and 2) Establishment by this integrated-circuits industry of a common language for the input and output parameters which specifies its products, ultimately making it possible for members of other disciplines and professions to utilize, without themselves being electronics specialists, the knowledge, tools, and skills of electronics for the benefit of all of society."
"The role played by the Department of Defense in the early development of integrated electronics is discussed and the current status of military application is summarized. The potential advantages of the new technology to military systems are outlined. These include improved reliability, savings in cost, improved maintenance and logistics supply, enhanced system effectiveness, design flexibility, shorter development/production leadtime and decreased size, and weight and power requirements. The paper concludes with a discussion of the question of military specifications and standards supporting the position that standardization in integrated circuits should for the present be limited to criteria for stating performance characteristics, methods of measuring characteristics and definitions and terminology."
"The populations of Europe and the U. S. are compared and the general electronics position in Western Europe is surveyed briefly. Two maps illustrate the location and number of organizations engaged in research, development, and production of integrated circuits in the United Kingdom and Western Europe. Some early British work is summarized, and details are given of the present position in thin-film and integrated circuits in the United kingdom. The general integrated circuits situation in Western Europe is summarized, and details are given of thin-film and integrated circuits research, development, and production in France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Sweden, and Norway. A bibliography is included of United Kingdom and European publications."
"This paper is based on a survey which was made of representatives of industrial organizations, and which was intended to show potential changes in electrical-engineering skills required as a result of the impact of integrated electronics. The most significant result of the survey was a predicted shift in emphasis from circuits engineering toward systems engineering. Comments received during the survey, as interpreted by the authors, indicate that a broader base of knowledge will be required for all categories of engineering. At the same time, the fundamental background provided a student in his chosen field must be strengthened. Effects of the predicted changes on both the teaching and the research programs of universities are summarized in the paper. Finally, it is concluded that for both teaching and university research, a strong interaction between industry and university is essential."
"Technology peculiar to the fabrication of monolithic, semiconductor-network, integrated circuits is discussed. In particular, the status of diffusion, epitaxy, photo processing, thin films, and thick films are discussed. The problem of component isolation is considered separately as a particular application of these technologies. The discussion is primarily qualitative and is designed to acquaint the device and circuit design engineer with the technology of semiconductor networks."
"The reduction in size of miniature devices which depend, for their operation, upon the volume properties of the material is severely limited by the increase in the surface to volume ratio. After a certain critical size is reached, the surface properties of the material may begin to play a dominant role. Various effects which may occur are discussed and a number of examples are cited. It is suggested that miniaturization may proceed more quickly by utilizing the properties of surfaces in design considerations rather than trying to avoid them."
"Various circuit advantages accrue from the use of complementary device structures; actual or potential improvements in size, cost, and reliability accrue from the use of integrated circuits. An amalgam of these advantages has so far been inhibited, however, by the lack of practical techniques for producing essentially identical diffusion profiles of n- and p-type dopants in different regions of the silicon substrate. A method of overcoming this difficulty is described, using diffusion from impurity-doped anodic SiO2films. The fabrication techniques are outlined, and the electrical characteristics of diode structures fabricated in this way are presented."
"In tantalum film circuitry, capacitors, resistors, and rudimentary interconnections are all produced in a single pattern of tantalum. Important processes are discussed in detail including 1) sputtering, by which tantalum films are produced, 2) pattern generation, and 3) anodization, by which capacitor dielectrics are formed and by which resistors are protected and adjusted to value. Predominantly the discussion is based on developments and practices of Bell Telephone Laboratories. Capacitors withstand stresses of several million volts/cm, have low leakages, a temperature coefficient of +200 to +250 ppm/°C, and a dissipation factor at 1 kc of 1 per cent maximum. Resistors of outstanding quality can be made from tantalum nitride produced by reactive sputtering. These resistors have high electrical stability and low temperature coefficients and can be fabricated to initial tolerances as low as 0.01 per cent. Because of the versatility of tantalum technology, a wide variety of circuit types can be fabricated. Tantalum technology is particularly valuable in the fabrication of thin-film integrated circuits with severe precision requirements as in the precise tuning of thin-film notch filters, and for distributed parameter networks."
"The high dielectric constant of TiO2and its low sensitivity to temperature and frequency make TiO2attractive for integrated electronic applications. The most useful technique for preparing titanium-dioxide films on semiconductors and metals is the vapor reaction process. The apparatus developed for film preparation is described, and effects of deposition conditions are discussed. Uniform films are obtained over large areas and film thickness is readily controlled. Films have dielectric constants up to 82 and dissipation factors between 0.008 and 0.03 at 1 kc and a dc leakage resistivity of 5×1012ohm/cm. The dielectric constant is relatively frequency insensitive into the gigacycle range."
"This paper presents the characteristics of Al2O3capacitors formed by the relatively new technique of gaseous plasma anodization. This process can be incorporated into a thin-film deposition process cycle thereby providing the advantage of minimizing contamination possibilities. The formation technique is briefly described and device properties are presented in detail."
"IBM has developed a glassing technology for the passivation of transistors and diodes. For effective surface protection, the glass should have long-term stability to ambient attack, particularly moisture attack. Since it is difficult to evaluate all glasses under moderate moisture conditions for extended periods, several accelerated tests for determining the stability of glasses to water and humidity were compared. Although the results obtained from exposure of a glassed silicon wafer to boiling water for times ranging from a few minutes to an hour were more severe than those obtained by conventional long-term humidity tests, the results could be correlated. The films were evaluated by infrared spectroscopy and by changes in weight, thickness, and microscopic appearance. It was found that glazed silicon surfaces can best be evaluated for water stability by comparison of the infrared spectra of the films before and after boiling in water. Changes in film thickness or weight was found to be insufficient for a complete evaluation."
"The development of thin-film circuitry and the urgent need for thin-film circuits in military and space applications has created a demand for improved manufacturing techniques in the tooling and fabrication of vacuum-deposited circuits. This paper describes how numerical control and automation offer a simple and economical approach to obtain consistent and repeatable results, and presents an analysis of the effect of mask errors on the deposited circuits. A numerically-controlled milling machine is utilized in the production of graphite masks and a semiautomatic, modular four-chamber vacuum system (an in-line machine) is employed in the deposition of thin film on glass substrates."
"At the University of Ottawa, a Multipurpose Integrated Electronic Processor (MIEP) is being built for basic research in integrated electronics and its related fields. When completed, the MIEP will permit controlled deposition of thin films, electron-beam micromachining, topological inspection and chemical analysis of the films. These processes will be achieved without the need of moving the substrate from one chamber to another, with the associated problems of reregistration and maintaining clean surfaces. The primary aim of the project is the fabrication of thin-film integrated circuits containing micron-sized active and passive elements."
"The thin-film field-effect transistor (TFT) provides the active element for complex integrated circuits deposited upon an insulating substrate. N-type transistors are obtained with evaporated layers of cadmium sulfide or selenide and p-type transistors with evaporated tellurium. Switching speeds of less than 4 nsec and gain-bandwidth products of greater than 30 Mc are observed with polycrystalline films of cadmium sulfide. Oscillations at frequencies up to 74 Mc have been noted. Significant improvements in the life and stability of the coplanar-electrode TFT have been obtained by encapsulation. A 30-stage completely integrated thin-film scan generator incorporating 60 TFT's, 30 diodes, 60 resistors and 30 capacitors has been designed. The novel circuit, whose operating characteristics resemble those of a shift register, is deposited by evaporation using movable metal masks controlled from outside the vacuum system. In one unit 28 consecutive stages were operated for nearly 700 hours. Laboratory models of the scan generator are being used to drive the address strips in experimental solid-state image-sensor panels."
"A method was developed for depositing silicon films by the pyrolytic decomposition of SiH4on single crystal sapphire. Electron diffraction and Laue reflection examinations of the films shows single-crystal patterns. The silicon film has a Hall mobility of 135 cm2/volt-second at a hole density of 1017/cm3. Insulated-gate field-effect transistors with a transconductance of 1000 µmho at 5 ma were made with dimensions of 10 µ source-to-drain spacing and an active distance of 120 µ. This value compares favorably with similar units made on bulk silicon and is very encouraging for the possibilities of thin-film silicon devices."
"Heretofore, the schemes for fabricating a complementary transistor structure in a monolithic functional block entailed either some additional, difficult-to-control processing steps or a sacrifice in isolation of the collector regions of one type of transistor. This paper describes an isolated p-n-p transistor structure fabricated by the same technique used for the conventional all n-p-n transistor functional block without any additional processing steps. The basic p-n-p transistor has a lateral structure. During the p-type base diffusion of the n-p-n transistor, two concentric p-type regions at close distance are selectively diffused into an isolated n- type region such as that used for the collector of an n-p-n transistor. The center p-type diffused region forms the emitter and the outer ring forms the collector. The n-type spacing between these two regions serves as the base. The current gain of this transistor is not high, typically around unity. However, by amplifying the collector current of the p-n-p transistor with an n-p-n transistor, the composite transistor acts like a high gain p-n-p transistor and the composite current gain can be made comparable to that of the n-p-n transistor in the same functional block. The lateral complementary transistor has been used extensively and successfully for the fabrication of linear functional blocks such as those used in the Advanced Minuteman Program."
"Relationships governing thermal-electrical interactions between components on a common substrate are developed. Performance characteristics are related to design calculations for several functional electronic blocks which are dependent upon thermal-electrical interactions. These FEB's include LF filters and oscillators, a video amplifier and a temperature-stabilized substrate. The time constants realized in these circuits are appreciably larger than can be achieved by conventional integrated circuit approaches."
"This article concerns a new category of field effect transistors currently being developed which are derived from the Tecnetron (known as the Fieldtron in the U.S.A.) and which use the principal of centripetal striction and have a multichannel structure. By this development it is intended that the advantages of bipolar and field effect transistors be combined insofar as this is possible. In the theoretical part of the article the peculiarities of centripetal striction are discussed. It is shown that since the multichannel structure of the Gridistor removes the limitations arising from the restriction on the degrees of freedom, it eliminates the disadvantages of centripetal striction while retaining its advantages. The various geometries of the Gridistor and the techniques for realizing them are then described with particular attention to their remarkable suitability for integrated circuits. The results obtained are then given briefly and prospects for the future are outlined."
"Scanistors form a new class of semiconducting devices which perform image scanning or dissection by reason of a novel electronic method of commutating a single output terminal to any preselected illuminated portion of the device. The selection is uniquely determined by a voltage applied across two terminals of the device. The present investigation is concerned with a strip-shaped unit called the multijunction scanistor which is comprised of a linear, integrated-circuit array of photodiodes. This device provides an output either as a sequence of pulses which represent spatial sampling of a line image at a discrete number of points, or as an analog wave-form which is a linear transformation of the line image. A theory appropriate to scanners of this type is developed and applied to the multijunction scanistor for purposes of design and analysis. A time-dependent circuit analysis of a model of the scanistor is carried out and tested experimentally. It provides an understanding of the upper limits to the scanning rate set by junction capacitance. Experimental units designed according to theory are tested for their sine-wave response, uniformity of output, sensitivity, and scanning linearity. These units are shown to give good results when used to scan a typewritten document for facsimile display on an oscilloscope."
"The combination of a GaAs light source and a silicon photodetector in a Functional Electronic Block (FEB) provides signal coupling with electrical isolation. Circuit functions not previously available in microelectronic form can be realized with optical coupling. The characteristics of the GaAs light source, the silicon photodetector and optical coupling techniques of importance in FEB design are discussed. Several useful FEB's which employ optical coupling to achieve electrical isolation are described; these include a multiplex switch, an isolated gate p-n-p-n-type switch, a photon-coupled transistor and an optoelectronic pulse amplifier."
"A generalized cost-size relationship is derived for a monolithic circuit consisting of N identical components, taking into account variations in component density, yield, and assembly costs with N. It is intended to reveal cost trends rather than give accurate results for specific cases and deals only with fabrication costs. A yield-area relationship is used which takes into account chip-to-chip variations in defect density. It is found that the ratio (circuit cost per component/cost of discrete transistor) is a minimum at a chip size which is determined primarily by the spot defect density on the device. This optimum chip size lies between approximately 20 and approximately 60 mils square for a wide range of parameter values. State-of-the-art parameter values indicate a potential order of magnitude cost saving in integrated circuits compared with discrete transistors. The minimum value for the cost ratio is in general inversely proportional to the maximum packing density of components on a semiconductor slice and has a limiting value approximately 1/8N, N0being the number of components which can be packed on the chip size normally used for transistors. Arrays of identical logic gates fit the circuit model used quite closely, and the curves indicate that the cost per gate in reasonably densely packed arrays can be less than the cost of a discrete transistor. The results also indicate that when systems requirements make it desirable to include larger numbers of components in one package than the optimum for one monolith, wired-chip schemes are preferable to single monoliths, the optimum chip size being smaller than that for a simple monolith."
"The present generation of digital integrated circuits is based on the batch-fabrication of interconnected transistors and diodes. These circuits successfully provide the elementary logic modules which can be directly interconnected to realize complex digital systems. The basic circuit configurations and their design must fulfill the prime requirement of signal-quantization under various operational aspects; and thus they reflect compromises between the operation speed, the noise margin, the number of fan-in and fan-out, the operating temperature range, the power dissipation, and the cost of fabricating circuit components to the required tolerance."
"The characterization of integrated logic circuits must be accomplished in a manner which fully accounts for the circuit's nonlinear behavior and is amenable to experimental verification. The approach taken in this paper is to describe both the dc and the transient performance of the circuit by developing nonlinear equivalents of the 2-port \"black box\" parameters used in specifying linear networks. Such terminal parameter characterization has the obvious advantage of eliminating the need to probe the integrated circuit for testing purposes. In addition, knowledge of terminal performance is a necessity when the circuit is studied from a system point of view. In this paper an emitter-coupled logic circuit is used as an example to illustrate the analysis techniques. After accomplishing the terminal parameter characterization of this circuit, attention is directed towards using these results to establish a design procedure. To this end the relationship that exists between power consumption and the circuit safety margins is explored, and the minimum power-delay time product is derived. The analysis accounts for the parasitics which are present in a monolithic integrated circuit and illustrates the use of the nonlinear transistor model."
"Many integrated circuit logic gates, especially the complete monolithic type, operate at very low signal levels. For this reason, the sensitivity of such circuits to noise is very important. The general definition of noise margin leads to a discussion of dc and ac noise margins for a simple inverting gate, and specific test data of an RCTL gate. A standard definition for input ac noise margin for a simple logic gate is proposed."
"The use of a field-effect transistor as the basic switching element permits the design of integrated analog switches with extremely low offset-voltage and good isolation from ground. The static behavior of an FET as an analog switch is described by its on-impedance and its off-leakage current. The switching speed is limited by capacitive coupling between the gate and the channel of the FET. A figure of merit for chopper FET's relates the resulting transients on the signal line to basic design parameters. Design considerations for a driving circuit are presented. The use of such advanced techniques as multiple epitaxial deposition leads to a monolithic structure which optimizes the field-effect transistor as well as the elements of the driving circuitry. The resulting device, integrated on a 0.06-inch×0.06-inch silicon chip, compares favorably with conventional analog switches."
"Digital transistor circuits operating in the \"micropower\" range (viz., 1 to 1000 µw per gate) are needed in the portable electronic equipments of a modern field army. The most basic micropower transistor requirements are, 1) junction reverse currents which are small compared with minimum operating currents, 2) useable device current gains at minimum operating currents, and 3) minimum junction capacitances in order to enhance switching speed. The micropower performance capabilities of modified direct coupled transistor logic (DCTL), diode transistor logic (DTL) and transistor transistor logic (TTL) circuits are sufficient to satisfy the present and projected requirements of many portable equipment applications. The normal operating temperature range, logic capability, and tolerance immunity of the circuits need not be compromised. Somewhat reduced stability margins may be necessary but are permissible due to lower operating power levels. Markedly reduced operating speeds are unavoidable but not at all detrimental since audio clock frequencies suffice for many portable equipments. In order to maintain adequate over-all performance, a minimum saturated transistor collector current ICSis required in a micropower logic gate. This minimum is most sensitive to the maximum operating temperature of the circuit. The feasibility of implementing a particular micropower circuit design by means of hybrid thin-film techniques or integrated silicon techniques depends principally on the large total circuit resistance values encountered in micropower designs."
"This paper summarizes a study of circuit designs for minimum power integrated electronic applications. The advantages of complementary resistor-diode-transistor logic (CRDTL) in terms of power drain, propagation delay, fan-in, fan-out and noise margin are shown. Modification of basic CRDTL design provides gate propagation delay times of 1.0 µsec with less than 250 µw power drain. Flip-flop repetition rates of 100 kc at a total power drain of 125 µw have been achieved and some designs have been operated at 6 kc and 20 µw. Additional demands on monolithic circuit fabrication imposed by micropower design are considered briefly."
"An integrated complementary transistor circuit family particularly suited to high-speed system applications is described. Delays per logic decision ranging from three to six nanoseconds are common with associated rise times ranging from 5 to 15 nsec. This has been accomplished by designing the circuits in conjunction with system interconnection considerations. The basic circuit types are p-n-p--n-p-n AND-OR gate and a compatible NOR-OR gate. The AND-OR gate is comparable to a diode AND-OR gate but with current gain added, thus improving the fan-in and fan-out characteristics. The faster functional operation with slower rise times is based on minimum delay through the emitter follower type AND-OR gate. The resulting wired-OR function allows additional logical flexibility. Typically, three or four levels of AND-OR circuitry may be used before the voltage levels need be restored. The NOR-OR element completes the basic logic complement, establishes the basic rise time of the circuits, restores the voltage levels, and provides noise rejection. The rise time is selected to allow open wire signal lines for all but the longest interconnections. The static and dynamic characteristics of these circuits are presented in detail. Effects of capacitive loading, fan-out, and isolation capacitance are described. Noise rejection is discussed along with various modes of noise generation. Functional performance of the circuit family is demonstrated with two subsystem functions. A fifty-gate fast-carry pyramid was constructed using open transmission lines to study small function operations. Noise and delay characteristics are given. Register-to-register communication over a five-register bus was demonstrated with a 150-gate model."
"The nature of integrated circuit fabrication limits the number of circuit modules in a system due to the high developmental cost involved. This paper describes a unique approach to designing an ultra-high speed multiple-function logic amplifier in integrated circuit form. Using the scheme of a pair of tunnel-diode coupled emitter followers driven by an emitter-coupled amplifier, it is shown that the circuit, designated UNIVER, has a capability of both storage (flip-flop) and wave-shaping functions, and can drive low impedance (35 ohms) transmission lines with a high (8) logic gain under 1 nsec total stage delay, while suppressing the oscillatory ringing commonly occurring in an emitter follower. A large number of the UNIVER circuits were built in integrated circuit form and then evaluated as multiple functional modules in a 100-Mc digital system. The logical performance and switching characteristics of the circuits were ascertained. Test results collected over a twelve-month period are discussed as well as the extended applications of the UNIVER circuit scheme."
"A thin-film, integrated-circuit, wide-band amplifier is described having a current gain of 17 db from 300 Kc to over 100 Mc. Four of these basic amplifiers have been cascaded and the constructional method and performance of the resultant amplifying block are described."
"The characteristics of single chip solid-circuit components are appreciably different from their conventional counterparts in both electrical performance and cost, and, if full advantage of the technique is to be taken by the circuit designer, these characteristics should be known in some detail. A very brief description of the component characteristics which affected the design of a wide-band dc amplifier is given below. In addition this amplifier is described and some aspects of its performance are discussed."
"No completely satisfactory means for making an integrated circuit which is sharply frequency selective has yet been fully developed. The three general categories into which the various proposed solutions tend to fall, passive feedback, active feedback, and feedforward, are discussed. It is argued that only the passive feedback category is likely to produce solutions which are economically feasible for high frequencies and moderately high Q's. Approaches coming under this category include an inductor using a thin-film ferrite, a transistorized version of the well-known reactance tube circuit, and acoustically resonant piezoelectric devices. A very promising new method of solidly mounting piezoelectric resonators and an acoustically resonant transistor are described."
"The design of IF amplifiers is discussed in which the circuit elements responsible for amplification, selectivity and (variable) attenuation are completely separated. This approach is possible using wide-band, fixed-gain integrated amplifiers with which it is not necessary to tune individual stages in order to obtain sufficient gain. An integrated amplifier with fixed gain, and bandwidth from direct current to 100 megacycles is described which can be used in this application. Methods of gain control and tuning are discussed, and their use illustrated in the design of a fixed gain 70-megacycle miniature IF amplifier and a variable gain 100-megacycle IF amplifier. The feasibility of using a single \"universal\" gain stage at any frequency within the above band makes the use of integrated circuits in analog systems more economically attractive."
"Since the preselection of individual components is impossible in integrated electronics, component parameters are, in general, characterized by nontruncated probability density functions which reflect the accuracy of the manufacturing process. The significant thermal resistance in practical integrated electronic sub-systems causes temperature gradients which further increase the effective standard deviation of component parameter probability density functions. As ever increasing numbers of components are constrained to ever decreasing volume, the temperature gradient can cause profound effects including the seeming paradox of a decrease in subsystem yield with increasing design range in parameter values. This paper proposes a straightforward and flexible approach, primarily applicable to digital circuits, which results in a circuit design which is directly related to the functional performance requirements, the accuracy of the manufacturing process, the thermal characteristics of the packaging scheme, and which results in a subsystem with enhanced probability of functioning correctly when fabricated. The approach can make use of any valid \"worst-case\" design procedures presently available for given topologies provided that the \"worst-case\" limits are picked in a specific unusual way which is described."
"Low-inductance circuits made by integrated-circuit techniques will permit higher frequency operation of parametric amplifiers and tunnel-diode oscillators. Symmetry can replace some filter circuits, especially in varactor harmonic generators. Interconnections can be based on transmission-line principles and then offer improved bandwidth for limiters and switches. Improved bandwidth is generally expected from integrated-electronic fabrication and will ease tolerances on element parameters."
"The paper discusses the reliability test plan and test results on semiconductor network microelectronic devices. Included in the test plan are reliability programs, life testing, step stress testing, and environmental tests. The failure analysis-corrective action cycle is discussed at length. The failure analysis procedure is outlined with many specific examples of analysis results at various points in the analysis procedure."
"A reliability approach on thin-film integrated electronics is discussed in which the overall (inherent) reliability PoAof a circuit is determined as the product of the individual part reliability Pc, design reliability Pd, and fabrication reliability Pf. This article presents data collected on the individual part reliability term for vacuum deposited thin-film resistors and capacitors. Maximum failure rates (at a 60 per cent confidence level) of 0.014 per cent per 1000 hours and 0.057 per cent per 1000 hours are reported for resistors and capacitors based on 8,000,000 element hours of data. The process used in fabricating the thin-film circuits is outlined."
"Purple plague is shown to be the development of a purple intermetallic compound AuAl2when gold wires are bonded to aluminum metallization regions in silicon transistors and integrated circuits. It is further shown that the rate of formation of purple plague is catalyzed by the presence and interaction of silicon, and that the catalyzed product is harmful to the device. Part of the ternary system is investigated to elucidate the mechanism of the ternary interaction. Various metallization-wire systems are reviewed which are currently in use or development. The use of aluminum wire to aluminum metallization is shown to be the simplest, most reliable method presently available for eliminating purple plague."
"Electrical signals induced in semiconductor devices by a high-resolution scanning electron beam have been used to determine the boundaries of doped (p or n) regions, even when these boundaries lie beneath passivating oxide layers, or beneath evaporated metal leads. The uniformity of planar junctions lying beneath the device surface can also be ascertained by this method, and the junction depth can be estimated by comparing measurements made at different electron-beam voltages. The spatial resolution of this technique is limited by the penetration and scattering of electrons in the device material; these scattering effects are discussed, and representative micrographs showing resolutions of a few microns are presented, as well as various quantitative measurements related to the method."
"The problem of complex interconnection patterns on multicomponent single-chip integrated circuits is discussed. It is argued that the full economic and size advantages of digital integrated circuits will only be realized if techniques can be developed for fabricating single-chip circuits consisting of several thousands of individual devices. The improbability of achieving perfect yields over such large and complex areas, the random distribution of faulty devices, and the economic difficulty of making custom interconnection masks to avoid these faults, make this objective unattainable by conventional techniques. A possible solution to this problem is described in the terms of a programmable beam of electrons, and the results of a simple experiment are presented which suggest that the proposed technique is intrinsically feasible."
"This paper investigates interconnection schemes based on multilayer printed wiring techniques necessitated by the development and the subsequent introduction of integrated circuits into the systems technology. The integrated circuits used in the particular scheme discussed and illustrated in this paper are current mode fast digital circuits packaged in the familiar TO-5, 10-pin device package. But similar designs exist for other device packages such as the ceramic flat package. The design of the interconnection scheme evolves around a predesigned TO-5, 10-pin package matrix with sandwiched voltage planes (one layer per voltage) and with all the logic signal interconnection lines on the two outside sides of the multilayer printed circuit board."
"The semiconductor circuit chip is a fully functional device of incredibly low cost and very high reliability up to the stage where the external contacts are made. It is the subsequent processes which largely determine the cost and reliability of the device. Systems using chips in individual encapsulations, interconnected by conventional means, do not necessarily make full use of the advantages of integrated circuits. By using subsystems containing several chips the cost can be reduced at the same time as giving greater circuit design flexibility. Some new methods of interconnecting the electrodes on separate semiconductor substrates are described. It is shown how these methods can also be used for hybrid systems, e.g., where semiconductor circuits are used on thin film circuits without separate encapsulation."
"A major problem facing users of integrated electronics has been the lack of high-speed automated processes for interconnection of fiat profile packages, in large quantities, into higher order subsystem assemblies. The hot gas soldering process employs jets of heated hydrogen which are scanned across the joint rows of planar package arrays. Joining speeds in excess of 100 leads per minute for each jet have been obtained, without causing thermal damage to package seals or wiring boards. This paper discusses in detail the process parameters of gas temperature, board feed rate, and joint mass as they effect soldering speed and joint quality. A multinozzle production machine which also positions microcircuit packages is described. Selection of printed wiring boards and materials for hot gas soldering is discussed."
"Rapid progress made in integrated circuit production daring the past two years has resulted in improved reliability at lower cost for high-volume standard circuits. However, gains made at the device and circuit level can sometimes be offset at the system level, particularly if the normal range of components is not available. This paper considers some of the system tradeoffs involved in standardization vs optimization of circuits and illustrates some of the penalties paid when capacitors, inductors and transformers are not available in integrated structures. Unconventional system organizations may sometimes be used to overcome the problems of limited component availability. An illustration is given of the design of a multiplex system based upon spread spectrum techniques in order to utilize more fully the advantages of integrated circuits."
"This paper describes the procedures employed in the development of the custom integrated circuit complement utilized in the Improved MINUTEMAN computer. Two representative circuit types are presented with detailed design considerations and resultant decisions, thereby illustrating the necessity for a tightly-knit combined-operations concept in the custom design of semiconductor integrated circuits. Conclusions are drawn relative to the efficacy of the procedures used, and recommendations for corrective action are presented."
"Circuit designers have frequently treated system design as a separate discipline. The development of integrated circuits has drawn many circuit engineers even further away from system considerations as they concentrate on intricate device parameters. This paper discusses the mutual constraints of system and circuit design which actually require even greater attention if integrated circuits are to be employed. Emphasis is placed on compromises the circuit designer must consider at the circuit level to achieve an optimum system. In addition, the effect of his decisions on procurement, test, repair, and support expenditures are discussed. A summary of the related systems and circuit specifications for a large scale digital computer using integrated circuits is presented. The selection and specification of the desired circuits was developed with particular emphasis on the system considerations discussed herein."
"The Aerospace Computer described is a general-purpose, ruggedized machine designed for use where high reliability and high environmental tolerance are required and where very small size, weight, and power consumption are premium considerations. The computer utilizes an advanced method of construction combining integrated semiconductor circuits and magnetic thin-film memory elements to form a very compact unit. The original design was oriented toward the requirements of an advanced missile system; however, because of its general-purpose characteristics the Computer can be adapted to a wide variety of control applications. This publication describes a specific configuration of the Computer designed for use in the investigation of advanced concepts in the guidance of ballistic missile systems."
"A simple, systematic procedure is presented for converting Integrated Circuit Packages (ICP's) and logical designs, first to test breadboards and prototypes and later through ascending packaging compatibility to production models. Emphasis is placed on a minimum number of human decisions, rapid design turnaround time, and available techniques using minimum cost capital equipment. The basic procedure produces two-layer printed circuit boards. A simple extension allows direct conversion to a high density multi-layer system."
"Technological advances in integrated semiconductor circuits have provided a basis for development of microminiature computing systems. The chip approach provides an effective means of fabricating complex circuits. As a result of prudent choices of circuit configurations and components, many circuits can be fully integrated. In some cases, new circuit configurations can achieve similar results to those formerly obtained by large-size capacitors, inductors, or transformers in integrated form. The absence of these components does not necessarily impose serious handicaps."
"An integrated electronic analog-to-digital converter has been developed for the purpose of converting analog voltages to digital code with very small low-power equipment. The converter produces an 11-bit binary code with both serial and parallel outputs provided. The basic converter design is described in this paper. Although designed primarily for military airborne applications requiring small size, high reliability and low power consumption, the use of monolithic integrated circuits has resulted in a commercially cost-competitive hybrid computer building block."
"Techniques have been developed for the interconnection of a large number of gates on an integrated-circuit wafer to achieve multiple-bit logic functions on a single slice of silicon. An analysis of popular logic types indicates that the transistor-transistor-logic (TTL) circuit is well suited for use in such arrays. The output of two representative production lines has been shown to provide an economic yield for arrays of 10 to 30 gates on each chip. Experimental results are presented for logic-array designs involving the interconnection of 47 and 108 gates on the wafer. Packaging, rather than yield, appears to be the remaining challenge in the develepment of the concept. Ultimately, the achievement of a significant portion of a computer arithmetic function on a single wafer appears entirely feasible."
"Integrated electronic techniques have been developed to the point where they can be applied to many types of military equipment. This paper discusses how these techniques are being used to increase the reliability and reduce the size and weight of three selected types of equipment used in military communications and radar systems. Redundancy is used in the first of these equipments, an ultrareliable UHF transceiver. The two additional equipments, a VLF/LF frequency synthesizer and a radar receiver, are greatly reduced in size and weight by the direct application of microcircuit techniques. The basic problems created by system size reduction are discussed, and the design and fabrication techniques used for the three equipments are described."
"This paper presents basic design details and concepts used when applying molecular engineering techniques to the development of a high-performance infrared subsystem using a mosaic detector. Some of the advantages of using mosaic detectors are discussed. In many aerospace applications the size, weight, reliability, and power consumption requirements of the redundant circuits required with a mosaic detector cannot be met with conventional components. New techniques were developed to obtain high-performance molecular circuits that were applied in a subsystem concept to demonstrate that mosaic subsystems were practical. Details of the individual circuits and the over-all subsystem are described."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The feasibility of constructing an \"atomic battery\" by combining the β-emitting radioisotope Pm147and a semiconductor containing a p-n junction has been studied both theoretically and experimentally. The properties of cells made by diffusing a p-type impurity into n-type GaAs, p-impurity into n-type silicon (p/n) and n-impurity into p-type silicon (n/p) are compared. The problems associated with the presence of an alpha emitting impurity (Am147) in the Pm147and with the fabrication of a suitable Pm147source are considered. Experiments with prototype batteries composed of Pm147and n/p silicon cells have led to the conclusion that such batteries would have a half life (1.6 years) somewhat shorter than that of Pm147(2.6 years). Such a battery could generate a few milliwatts of power from a volume of about 2 cubic inches including shielding."
"A new charge control model of a p-n junction diode is introduced in which the reverse current iRas well as the forward current IFare related to the chargeQstored in the base region by time constants τRand τF, respectively. The reverse switching transient is analyzed for normal switching operation where a constant current phase (storage phase) and a decaying current phase exist, and for overdriven switching operation where no constant current phase exists. New switching time equations are derived. The equations are expressed in terms of measurable device parameters τF, τR, and Cjexternal circuit variables IFand IRand an external circuit parameter R. The proposed model is applicable to p-n junction diodes of any type. Experimental results using various types of diodes are also reported. It is shown that the experimental results are in very good agreement with the theory."
"A study is made of those parameters, associated with the impedance of an ac MHD generator, which affect the power factor. It has been found that the addition of a ferromagnetic material in the region external to the plasma causes a significant increase in the power factor. An expression for the actual electrical power extracted from the generator, as determined by electrical impedance methods, is shown to be identical to the expression derived by considering Lorentz forces on elements of the fluid for a particular approximation mentioned in the report."
"The effect of a tapered circuit phase velocity on the efficiency of an O-type backward-wave-oscillator (BWO) is investigated. Circuit tapers based on a hard-kernel-bunch approximation are derived. It is shown that when such tapers are applied to realistic BWO's higher efficiencies result. An experimentalS-band BWO with a variable pitch helix designed on the basis of the hard-kernel-bunch theory was constructed. An efficiency improvement of 20 per cent to 80 per cent over a frequency range of 2 to 3.75 Gc has been obtained."
"The effects of nonuniformities in the circuit phase velocity and the beam potential on the start-oscillation conditions of an O-type backward-wave oscillator (BWO) are investigated. The nonuniformities include linear, quadratic, and exponential circuit phase velocity tapers and beam potential gradients. It is shown that for weak circuit phase velocity tapers or voltage gradients the start-oscillation current may be lower than that of a uniform tube; however, when the taper or gradient is made stronger than a particular value which depends on the operating parameters, a no-oscillation region results. The latter result indicates that such nonuniformities may be utilized to suppress backward-wave oscillations in forward-wave amplifiers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper outlines a nonlinear theory for the output power vs excitation current of an injection diode laser. The dependence upon electric field amplitude of effective negative conductivity in the region of inverted population derived and used to determine the level of steady oscillation in the quasilinear approximation (nonlinear conduction current small compared with displacement current). This level is simply related to the output power. A field dependent negative conduction current is derived from the negative conductivity which indicates that, in the quasilinear approximation, the presence of two modes with the same polarization will be an unstable situation; one mode will grow at the expense of the other."
"The noise behavior of four-terminal Hall-effect elements withR_{12} = -R_{21}is discussed. In the case of purely thermal noise, the noise sources at the input and output are uncorrelated. The noise figure is calculated, and a relationship between maximum available gain and noise figure is found ifR_{11} = R_{22}. The smallest noise figure which may be achieved is 7.66 db. The final section of the paper discusses the influence of current noise. It is shown that \"white\" current noise can be neglected with respect to thermal noise in InAs and InSb. Measurements of flicker noise are given. High frequency behavior is discussed."
"It is shown that the shot noise theory of transistors holds for low temperatures in alloy junction transistors, provided that the effect of hole-electron pair recombination in the emitter transition region is taken into account. The discrepancy between theory and experiment reported by Lee and Kaminsky can be accounted for by the fact that this process was ignored."
"A silicon PIN diode developed for use as a microwave protector promises to have considerably greater reliability than gas T-R tubes. The switching action of the device results from the lowering of I layer resistance by conductivity modulation, caused either by sufficiently high microwave power levels or by applied dc bias. A theoretical analysis is presented here which yields equations for I layer resistance as a function of excitation (dc bias or microwave power). Predictions are made about the relative effectiveness of direct current or microwave power in modulating the I layer; for example, 100 ma dc bias should produce about the same injected carrier concentration as 100 kw of microwave power at 1 Gc. An experimental X-band protector consisting of an appropriately tuned PIN diode connected across a waveguide presented to low level signals an insertion loss 1 db or less when zero biased, and an insertion loss of up to 34 db at 100 ma forward bias. Measurements of temperature rise in the wafer as a function of applied X-band power indicated that the diode could protect against microwave pulses with energies of up to 38 Mw-µsec before burnout, in good agreement with theoretical predictions."
"A stationary plasma in the presence of a magnetic field may be represented by an equivalent dielectric tensor. The equivalent dielectric tensor of a moving plasma, valid within the quasi-static approximation, is found by a Lorentz transformation of the dielectric tensor from a reference frame in which the plasma is at rest to one in which the laboratory is at rest. The range of validity of the dielectric tensor is investigated, and the relation between this tensor and the equivalent dielectric tensor found from Maxwell's curl equation is determined. An infinite number of moving plasma streams with a Maxwellian velocity distribution are summed to obtain the dielectric tensor of a finite temperature plasma. The dielectric tensor leads directly to the dispersion relation for waves on a bounded plasma."
"The performance of an experimental high-perveance hollow-beam klystron has been investigated. Data of small- and large-signal operation are presented in this paper. For strong magnetic confinement of the beam, it is shown that gap interaction and gain and large-signal bunching are well predictable by the appropriate theories. A sensitivity of all measurable RF-quantities to the level of the focusing field has been studied. Efficiencies are lower than predicted from the measured high degree of bunching, and reflect the effect of potential depression."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The present work treats the transport of noise, originating at a thermionic cathode, across a planar crossed-field diode. A multivelocity Monte Carlo analysis is used to simulate thermionic emission by using random numbers to generate electron emission times and velocities. Trajectories for many charges are followed through the diode space by means of a high-speed digital computer. Measurements performed on a planar triode model for the crossed-field diode show that the anode noise current increases rapidly near the critical magnetic field, at which the stream just grazes the anode. The theory agrees well with these experimental findings. The Monte Carlo study predicts the increase of both the normal anode velocity fluctuations and the spread of the velocity distribution with magnetic field. This is caused mainly by the \"geometrical\" spreading of the initial velocity distribution. The crossed-field potential minimum exhibits no instabilities in the planar model. The noise current smoothing at low frequencies in ordinary streams is predicted for moderate fields but disappears near the critical field."
"The noise transport phenomena in a two-dimensional diode operated under space-charge-limited conditions are investigated by means of the statistical Monte Carlo method. Effects on the transport characteristics of an electron beam by the multi-dimensional nature of the potential distribution in the vicinity of the potential minimum are evaluated. Contrary to both the single velocity and multivelocity linear small-signal noise theories, the noise parametersS, II,S-- II andS+ II are found to be nonconservative. A reduction in the equivalent noise figure from 6.96 db corresponding to full-shot noise input at the cathode to approximately 2 db is observed at the anode of the two-dimensional diode for a wide range of frequencies. A substantial amount of correlation between the kinetic potential and the current fluctuations is developed in the multivelocity region beyond the potential minimum. It is believed that the improvement in noise performance of the two-dimensional diode over the one-dimensional model is directly attributable to the space-charge potential-depression effects by which an additional amount of velocity spread is introduced in the electron beam, creating an extension of the multivelocity non-linear region. The theoretical minimum-noise figures obtained indicate that possibly two-dimensional dc effects are more important than two-dimensional ac effects in essentially hollow-beam low-noise devices."
"The small-signal gain expression for an amplifier consisting of two resonant synchronous-wave couplers is presented and the results of an experimental investigation of such a tube are reported. Some theoretical studies of such an amplifier have been reported earlier but no experimental results have been given. The experimental tube operated at 3.00 kMc and employed a Brillouin flow beam with a dc power of 730 w. The saturation output power was 45 w. In general, the experimental results were in good qualitative agreement with the theory. The discrepancy between the theoretical gain of 13 db and the experimentally observed 8-db gain is attributed to thick-beam effects. Oscillations due to the interaction between the slow space-charge wave and the off-axis longitudinal circuit fields were observed, and it is pointed out that this effect may set some limitations on the gain that can be achieved in the sychronous-wave amplifier."
"A new type of high-power traveling-wave tube employing electrostatic beam focusing was developed and tested. An electrode system permitting the electrostatic focusing of a high-perveance electron beam was evolved and the incorporation of the focusing electrodes in the slow-wave circuit was accomplished without significant deterioration of the original RF characteristic. Feasibility was proven on a narrow-bandX-band amplifier operated in a continuously pumped vacuum chamber which produced up to 10 kw of peak power. A sealed-off wide-band tube, subsequently, gave 2.5 kw over a 26 per cent bandwidth."
"A silicon symmetrical transistor having high symmetry of current gains, extremely low saturation resistance and high-frequency performance is fabricated by utilizing ap-type wafer with extremely low resistivity for the collector, ann-type epitaxial layer grown on the wafer for the base and ap-type region diffused into the layer for the emitter of the transistor. High injection efficiencies of the two junctions are obtained owing to the high surface concentration of the emitter and the high impurity concentration of the wafer. A thin base of about 2µ in thickness, large junction areas of about 0.70 mm in diameter and the junction area ratio of about 0.9966, are used for high survival factors. The collector junction is formed in the epitaxial layer intentionally away from the interface, in order to have a nearly equal impurity distribution to that near the emitter, and to keep away from the crystal imperfections near the interface. Combination of diffusion-epitaxial technique with the optimum geometry results in the structure capable of replacing a number of other devices designed for specific functions. Good symmetry of current gains is obtained: the hFE's above 20 in the two directions at 10 µa to above 50 ma of collector currents. The saturation resistance is in the neighborhood of 1 Ω. Current gain band-width fTis greater than 20 Mc."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In this theory a field-effect transistor of planar geometry is considered as an active, distributed, nonuniform transmission line. The wave equation of this line is determined and solved by an approximation method. From this solution theyparameters are determined. By comparing the results for y11with van der Ziel's expression for the high-frequency gate noise of field-effect transistors, it is shown that the noise temperature of y11is of the order of the device temperature. The conductance part g11of y11varies as ω2over a wide frequency range. The high-frequency cutoff of the field-effect transistor is determined."
"The bonded NR (negative-resistance) diode is a current-controlled negative-resistance device, fabricated in a similar manner as conventional gold-bonded diodes. Switching times of the device are a few nanoseconds. The I-V characteristic can be strongly controlled by magnetic fields and by illumination. Under continuous operation, magnetic sensitivity(\\partial V/\\partial B)_{I}up to about 2.7 mv/gauss was observed under dc conditions, decreasing exponentially in an ac magnetic field above 2-3 kc, and disappearing around 25 kc. The sensitivity of the turnover voltage to illumination at a wavelength of 1.4 µ was found to be of the order of 10 mv/µW. The electrical and optical characteristics can be explained on the basis of Gunn's avalanche injection model. The magnetic sensitivity and an effect of the diode length on its I-V characteristics are compatible with lifetime modulation in the bulk material. Possible applications of the device as a magnetic and optical sensor are discussed, and an analysis of the device as an active circuit element utilizing its negative resistance is presented."
"Accurate determinations of radial resistivity gradients on semiconductor slices, using the four-point probe, can be made only if correction factors for the finite boundary conditions are applied to the measurements. The off-center correction is different from the center correction. Both are necessary for gradient evaluation. These corrections were derived assuming homogeneous material, but are, nevertheless, useful approximations for nonhomogeneous materials. The corrections are given as generalized formulas and are graphed for the 62 and 25-mil probes for the center and 1/8-inch from the edge positions."
"Expressions for rise and fall time calculations of junction transistors are derived based on the charge controlled model. In solving the differential equation of the charge controlled model, a new approach is taken and exact solutions are obtained. Comparison of the experimental results of the rise and fall time measurements with the theoretical prediction, using the measured transistor parameters, shows very good agreement."
"The traveling-wave phototube (TWP) is a broad-band photodetector which is useful for demodulation of light that has been amplitude-modulated at a microwave frequency, and for optical heterodyning of coherent light signals with microwave difference frequencies. In either application the light beam(s) results in the emission of a current-modulated electron beam from a photocathode; interaction between this beam and a slow-wave circuit such as a helix is employed for broad-band detection of the microwave modulation. Part I of this paper presents a detailed analysis of the TWP beam-circuit interaction process, including the effects of loss, space charge and asynchronism. Computer results are given for both current modulation and velocity modulation excitations, since the latter can be important under certain operating conditions. Conclusions regarding the effects of beam current, circuit length and circuit loss are drawn which are important in the design, understanding and use of TWP's. The results of this analysis are also generally applicable to other cases where a slow-wave circuit is excited by an electron beam. In Part II of this paper, a detailed experimental analysis of the TWP will show good agreement with the predictions of this theoretical treatment."
"This paper reports a detailed experimental investigation of the traveling-wave phototube (TWP) as a broad-band demodulator of microwave-modulated light. As Part II of a theoretical and experimental analysis of the interaction between a density-modulated photoelectron beam and a slow-wave circuit, it examines the output power, bandwidth and voltage modewidth of the traveling-wave phototube as a function of photocurrent, beam voltage and interaction length. Three types of experiments are described: 1) direct demodulation of light, amplitude-modulated at 3 Gc by a cavity-type modulator, 2) measurement of the microwave shot noise from photoelectron beams initiated by light from both coherent and incoherent sources and 3) comparison of the previous two measurements with the microwave shot noise of a thermionic electron beam. Comparisons of the results of these experiments with the predictions of the theory of Part I are drawn, showing good agreement. In particular, a number of new effects which are predicted by the detailed analysis of Part I, and which had not been previously observed or predicted are reported."
"A half-Maxwelliany-component velocity distribution and a full-Maxwellianz-component velocity distribution are assumed in order to evaluate the position and depth, ymand Vm, of the potential minimum as a boundary-value problem. The various dc parameters such as the voltage distribution, space-charge density, velocity and current density components and trajectories are then evaluated as an initial-value problem. The results obtained in this manner agree closely with the results obtained from the Kino gun model except that they-component current density is not constant, as is usually assumed in the Kino gun model. The steady-state parameters are calculated here for both temperature-limited and space-charge-llmited conditions. The Kino gun results are shown to be essentially those for space-charge-limited operation. Even though the injection conditions under the two types of operation are identical, the formation of a potential minimum considerably changes the electron trajectories and the corresponding velocity components. The growth rate of a hybrid wave is reduced as ωpis decreased and/or\\omega/\\omega_{c}is increased, and the propagation constants of the two conventional space-charge waves are modified, the over-all growth rate of the slow wave being greater than that of the fast wave. For large values of ωpthe conventional fast space-charge wave is a backward wave, although it becomes a forward wave if\\omega/\\omega_{c}is large. It is noticed that the conditions in the gun region are more favorable to the existence of low-frequency perturbations. Based upon these results several experimental observations made at various laboratories are explained qualitatively."
"Experimental data on spectrum deterioration in a pulsed magnetron oscillator exhibited a correlation with the theory of the striated space-charge distribution in a smooth-bore magnetron. This correlation led to a formula which defines a region on the performance chart where spectrum deterioration can be expected. The validity of the formula was confirmed for four different magnetrons."
"The electrostatic recording camera can store a large number of pictures and provide for television transmission of these pictures at arbitrary times following optical exposure. This paper describes analytically the operation and performance of an electrostatic recording camera developed especially for use in observation satellites. The device is seen to have comparable signal-to-noise ratio and sensitivity to those characteristics of a vidicon. Camera resolution is also shown to depend mainly on the readout electron beam."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The techniques for analyzing an axially symmetric or two-dimensional electrode system with an emitting surface have been studied with a computer program. The program is very easy to use and performs in one pass the steps which have usually previously been followed on analog and digital devices separately. The program alternately solves Poisson's equation by a relaxation technique, traces trajectories, recomputes the space-charge distribution and again performs a relaxation process. This procedure continues until satisfactory convergence has been achieved. The ease of use of the computer program has allowed the investigation of different methods of speeding up the convergence. The results are illustrated with two specific examples."
"A degenerate crossed-field cyclotron wave parametric amplifier in which all three interaction circuits are half-wave coaxial cavities is described. At a signal frequency of 1957 Mc the over-all measured noise figure was 5 db with a contribution due only to beam noise of 3.2 db. The signal saturation gain at low input levels was 40 db. The amplifier operated with a beam current of a few microamperes and a beam voltage of a few tenths of a volt. Several differences between the O-type and the M-type cyclotron wave parametric amplifiers are discussed. Other experimental results are reported."
"The possibility of using an anisotropic resistive material to simulate sheath-type microwave slow-wave structures is investigated experimentally. The specific anisotropic material considered in the present study is pyrolytic graphite which has an anisotropic electrical conductivity. A sheath model of the Karp line is simulated by replacing wires and slots by a sheet of pyrolytic graphite. The mode of propagation in this waveguide structure is measured and compared with the theory. The Karp-line mode with a relatively high attenuation is found to be present in this structure."
"The problem of maximizing laser efficiency is usually approached through experimental study. The method proposed in this paper permits us to approximate the optimum design prior to the actual physical construction of the system. The efficiency of a four-level laser system is first defined as a product of six subefficiencies, each associated with one of the loss mechanisms operative in the system. Equations which relate the subefficiencies to physically measurable parameters are derived. The set of these equations constitutes the model for system efficiency. Based on the model, a program is written for the IBM 1620 digital computer. A sample problem involving the design of a neodymium doped glass laser oscillator is solved to illustrate the use of the model. The results are in general agreement with known theoretical and experimental properties of the pulsed four-level laser. In general, the efficiency increases with length, radius, doping density and pumping energy, and decreases as end reflectivities and pumping pulse time constant increase, within the restrictions imposed on the model by assumptions and approximations."
"This paper attempts to accentuate all the salient factors of high-quality switches, such as their static properties, stability under various conditions of high temperature or thermal cycling, and some aspects of their transient response. It is shown that the silicon planar epitaxial transistor possesses the most advantageous combination of properites for general application as a low-level switch, and that simple low-injection level formulas are sufficiently accurate for the calculation of voltage offset and resistance of an \"on\" switch, as well as the \"off\" resistance, if extrinsic parameters and current dependence of βnand βiare taken into account. A simplified procedure is proposed for the selection of temperature-compensated switch pairs. Hysteresis in a single parameter βnis shown to be the main cause of instability in voltage offset in germanium alloy-type transistors, an effect which is hardly detectable in silicon planar epitaxial devices. Suitability of the latter for fast operation in chopper amplifiers is discussed, and their capabilities in a rapid-sampling commutator is illustrated."
"Simple analytic expressions are derived for the variation of base current, emitter current and emitter-base voltage along the emitter junction of a transistor structure due to the flow of dc base current parallel to the emitter junction. The effective width of the emitter region is discussed, and it is shown that as the emitter width is increased, the effective emitter width approaches a constant value. The change in base resistance with emitter current is also calculated. The use of base contacts on each side of an emitter region is discussed and the analysis is shown to be applicable to this problem for equal or unequal division of base current between the two contacts. The results are applied to a planar transistor structure."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Ring-plane circuits consist of circular rings or slotted pipes supported by one or more radial planes. These circuits propagate slow waves(v_{p} < c)in one or more modes, with velocity and impedance governed primarily by the ring or slot resonances much as on planar ladders. The multimode behavior depends very much on the mutual coupling near the radial planes. Tests of many variations about a prototype configuration are presented, including methods for suppression of unwanted modes. The results are given in terms of ω -- β diagrams, field shapes and impedances. The study presents essentially all parameters necessary for design of circuits for traveling-wave amplifiers and backward-wave oscillators, as well as information useful in other applications, such as linear accelerators. Ring-plane circuits are of large diameter(ka \\ge 1), are quite fast(v_{p}/clarge) and have relatively large impedances. The radial support planes provide good heat conduction paths, allowing for high average power capability. These properties make these circuits well suited for use in high-power, high-frequency traveling-wave tubes."
"A 9-mm traveling-wave tube (TWT) amplifier using a ring-plane circuit is described. This tube has produced a peak power of 43 kw at an efficiency of 12 per cent(2C)with a solid beam. Several guns producing solid and hollow beams have been used with comparable results at high voltages (15 to 100 kv) and low currents (0.11 to 3.8 a). A waveguide transition (special coupler) incorporating a magic tee is used to couple independently to the two modes that can exist on the slow-wave circuit. The circuits, due to their good heat dissipation capability, can be operated either pulsed or CW. Their large size (ka= 1, 2, 3 ...) with useful cross sections comparable with those of ordinary waveguides, makes them attractive for producing kilowatt powers even at much higher frequencies."
"A theoretical analysis and an experimental study of millimeter wave generation by a fast wave interaction between a bunched electron beam and a transverse wave are reported in this paper. The technique appears to be practical for the generation of wavelengths as short as 1 to 2 mm. The experimental apparatus reported here converts power at a frequency of 9.17 Gc to power at a frequency of 39.71 Gc with an output power of 2 to 3 mw."
"The spot (band-limited) noise of Ge, GaSb, GaAs and Si Esaki diodes was measured at 297°K for diodes having a peak current between 1 ma and 5 ma. The measurements were made at either 1 Mc or 30 Mc and at least one sample of each material was measured at a lower temperature (77°K or 188°K). The measured results are presented in terms of an equivalent noise current IEQwhich, flowing in a thermionic diode, would produce the same noise as the Esaki diode at each measure point. At zero bias, IEQwas found in every case to equal the noise produced by a resistor having the same conductance as the diode and was, to a first approximation, related to the peak bias current and voltage, and the temperature. For small forward biases, IEQwas in reasonably good agreement with the value calculated from IBcoth(qV/2KT), where IBis the bias current. Many diodes showed a small inflection in IEQnear\\circ{I}_{B}. In the negative resistance region, a peak of IEQwas observed for GaAs at 297°K and Si at 77°K. In the negative resistance, valley and second positive region, IEQsubstantially exceeded IB. The bias current can be decomposed into a forward and reverse current by a linear combination of IEQand IB. The forward current reached a peak near the peak of bias current and then declined to a value greater than the excess current in the valley. The reverse current declined rapidly from its value at zero bias and instead of tailing out often showed an inflection or anomalous peak. The noise figure and gain of a linear amplifier using Esaki diodes is strongly affected by the measure of noiseI_{EQ}/|- G_{D}|. The diode materials were rank ordered according to this ratio with GaSb the quietest, followed by Ge, Si and GaAs. In all cases the measure of noise was reduced by cooling. For switching applications Esaki diodes are often biased in the first positive region, just before the peak current. There the relative magnitude of IEQand IBdetermines the noise performance and GaAs was found the quietest at 297°K."
"When local compressive stress is applied to the emitter surface of a silicon planar transistor, increases in collector and base currents are observed. From the relationship between these currents and the base-to-emitter junction potential, it is inferred that changes in minority-carrier current occur in the stressed material. It is well known that the energy gap of a semiconductor is affected by mechanical stress, and the effects described here are consistent with a decrease in energy gap of a few tenths of an electron volt at compressive stresses of the order of 1011dynes cm-2. It is shown that the influence of stress on the current gain of a transistor depends on the strain distribution in the material. When the stress is applied over a relatively large area using a blunt stressing element, the increased minority-carrier current causes a rise in common-emitter current gain at low currents. In the case of the stress pattern produced by a sharper stressing element, a decrease in current gain is observed over a wide current range. It is proposed that this decrease results from a degradation in emitter efficiency caused by the stress concentration in the emitter region."
"Design equations for the Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor are developed. Approximate solutions for static characteristics, transconductance, and frequency cutoff are presented for the case of a very high resistivity substrate. Specific sets of static characteristics from computer calculations are presented graphically to illustrate the effects of oxide thickness and various substrate resistivities."
"Interesting and useful behavior is obtained by operating a two-gate field-effect transistor as a four-terminal device. This paper considers important aspects of the low-frequency four-terminal behavior of a transistor with symmetrical geometry. The functional dependence of the drain current upon gate bias voltages and material and structural constants is determined, and four general modes of operation of the device are defined. For each mode the dependence of relevant transconductances on gate biases is calculated. Special cases of interest are analyzed, including that in which the transconductance exhibits a linear variation with gate bias voltage. Experimental results are in good agreement with the theory."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A brief biography of George D. O'Neill is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Both degradation resulting from ion migration and surface breakdown ofp-njunctions depend strongly on electric field. These problems can be minimized or avoided by designingp-njunction devices so that the electric field at the surface is substantially lower than that within the body of the device. The shape, surface doping, and dielectric constant at the junction-surface interface have an appreciable influence on the electric field of the adjoining space charge layer. Using relaxation methods, solutions of Poisson's equation in two dimensions have been found which permit predictions of the surface fields as a function of surface geometry and dielectric coatings. Measurements of the surface field by probing the junctions are in good agreement with calculated values. This approach has led to the design of very high voltagep-njunction devices which exhibit body breakdown only. With the breakdown confined to the body of the device, the reverse power dissipation capability is not only predictable but significantly greater (typically 30 a at 1200 v for a 100 µsec pulse applied to a large area device) than that achievable with surface limited devices."
"The theory of the MOS transistor in the gradual channel approximation is presented with the assumption of constant surface and bulk charge, and constant surface mobility. From the simple theory, the complete design equations are derived and design curves are calculated. From the analysis, the equivalent circuit parameters of the device are related to the basic properties of the material and geometry of the device. The simple theory is then critically compared with experimental measurements of MOS transistors with circular geometry. The comparison shows good general agreement with the theory of the dc characteristics but discrepancies are found for the differential characteristics such as the transconductance and the gate capacitance. The possible sources of the discrepancies are discussed."
"The experimentally observed frequency dependences of the reverse-biased capacitance of gold-doped silicon step junctions over the frequency range from 10 cps to 30 Mc are found to be in agreement with a simple physical model which takes into account the charge condition and the charging and discharging time constant of the deep-gold acceptor level in the transition region of the junction. Analysis based on the simple physical model provides explicit theoretical formulas for the junction capacitance at low- and high-frequency limits which show that the high-frequency capacitance under reverse bias is approximately proportional to\\sqrt{N_{D} - N_{Au}}and is considerably reduced below the low frequency or dc capacitance if the donors are nearly compensated by the gold. The frequency effect is important for deep energy level impurities and becomes negligible if the impurity level is at or near the band edges. The presence of gold, however, has negligible effect on the avalanche breakdown voltage ifN_{Au} < N_{D}."
"An improved design theory of a magnetron-injection gun is presented, which is based on a \"constant radius\" approximation. This theory derives a correction term to be added to the solution of Kino-Taylor's planar theory. It is found that, within the adopted approximation, the only correction necessary to Kino-Taylor's theory is to take into account the effect of the centrifugal force. The corrected electron trajectories and the corrected electrode shapes are shown for specific examples."
"This paper describes a resistive lens or spiral lens, which uses a controlled voltage distribution on the inside of a cylinder for focusing. Electron-optically, this long electrostatic lens shares many of the features of a magnetic solenoid. These include a low degree of spherical aberration, high beam transmission, and a capability to operate as an immersion lens with an ultimate magnification of unity. An application of the spiral lens is presented, including lens design, circuit features, and performance testing of a radar indicator tube with spiral focusing."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Current fluctuations in the primary readout beam and fluctuations introduced by the secondary emission multiplier of several 5820 image orthicons were measured. The noise in the photocurrent leaving the photocathode was measured and found to be full shot noise. It was found that the primary beam noise is not suppressed by space charge but shows full shot noise. It was reconfirmed that the only dynode in the secondary multiplier chain contributing significantly to the noise at the multiplier output was the first."
"Results of experiments with a two-cavity extended interaction klystron are given. The tube is nominally capable of 1 kw-CW atSband and consists of two five-gap short-slot-coupled cavities coupled to the input and output lines by means of TWT matching sections with adjustable mismatches. The unusual features of the tube are 1) the length of extension of the resonant cavities (five electron ballistic wavelengths) and 2) the incorporation of different and controllable beam-circuit synchronism conditions for the input and output cavities. The results of principal interest are the low velocity spread in the spent beam entering the collector providing high total conversion efficiency (65 per cent) with collector depression and stable gain in excess of 15 db. Some treatment of the relationship of efficiency and oscillation stability is included, as well as comments on the usefulness of such a design for high power millimeter wave amplification."
"An analysis of the effect of radial electric and longitudinal magnetic fields on the axial velocity distribution of electrons in a hollow beam was carried out on a simplified model. Two results, both consistent with experimental observations, were obtained. First, the longitudinal velocity spread (or equivalent temperature) increases with distance from the axis. Second, the retarding potential at which all electrons are collected also increases with distance from the axis; this indicates that the energy of the slowest electrons at the beam edge is decreased as a result of the crossed fields. The radial electric field, which is greatest near the beam edge and zero on the axis, converts some of the longitudinal energy of the electrons into rotational energy. This kind of scattering is analyzed by a perturbation method whereby the transverse motion of the incident beam is considered harmonically bound by the magnetic field. The spectrum of the energy absorbed in the rotational mode is shown to be velocity dependent and thus to give rise to distortion in the Maxwellian distribution of the incident beam."
"The Laddertron is a multi-gap klystron using ladders. This paper describes the theory and experimental results of the tube. Two types of Laddertrons are distinguished, namely theO-mode Laddertron and the π-mode Laddertron. The operation of each is analyzed and the equivalent circuit representations determined theoretically, whereby one can compute the resonant frequencies within an error of several per cent. A demountable experimental version of the π-mode Laddertron gave an output power of 10 watts for the 50-Gc band, an electronic tuning range of 300 Mc, and a mechanical tuning range of 2.5 Gc."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A review of various papers dealing with p-n-p-n device characteristics shows essentially different interpretations of 1) the condition for switching and 2) the operating state defined by\\alpha_{p}+ \\alpha_{N} = 1. The present paper attempts to show the relationship between these various papers and to clarify the conditions which exist at the switching point and holding point."
"If, in a space charge region of a semiconductor device, a unipolar drift current is a main component of the total current, an analogy with motion of electrons in vacuum exists. In the space charge limited emission, injection of minority carriers is limited by space charges, as in a punched-through p-n-p diode. On the other hand, in a transistor, minority carriers are injected into the depletion layer between the base and the collector, after diffusion in the neutral base region. This injection is limited by emitter current, and this mode of injection corresponds to a temperature limited emission in a vacuum tube. In this paper, equations of minority carrier impedances will be calculated in both these cases, and negative resistances can be expected at some transit angles. Then a generalized equation, which includes these two modes of injections as special cases, will be obtained. This generalized equation corresponds to the Llewellyn-Peterson equation of vacuum tubes, which include the space charge limited emission and the temperature limited emission as special cases."
"A three-terminal dc measurement is made of avalanche multiplication of holes injected from the emitter into the collector junction of diffused-base germanium p-n-p transistors. The method is applicable to asymmetric thin-base transistors at currents at which dc base current is independent of base width when emitter to base voltage (VEB) is held constant. Injected collector current and VEBare measured at constant emitter current as a function of collector to base voltage (V). VEBis measured to take base narrowing into account. Collector reverse current is balanced out. The advantages of this method over two-terminal measurements are that surface, space-charge recombination and internal field emission currents are balanced out and no a priori assumption of the form of the multiplication factorM(V)is needed. For collector barriers which are nearly stepn^{+}pjunctions with the p-type resistivity in the neighborhood of 1 ohm-cm, the multiplication data, which cover the range1.05 \\siml M \\siml 2.0, fit the Miller equationM^{-1} = 1 - (V/V_{B})^{n} n = 3.2 \\pm 0.2in agreement with Miller's two-terminal measurements using alloy and grown-junction Ge transistors. The parameters VBfrom extrapolation of the present data agree within experimental error of five per cent with the collector diode breakdowns BVCBOmeasured by Miller. However, in the present measurements on diffused-base transistors, appreciable surface current multiplication occurs with the result that BVCBOmeasured at 1 ma is approximately 18 per cent less than VB. The absence of microplasma noise in the multiplied injected hole current indicates that multiplication occurs uniformly in the collector barrier under the emitter at least toM = 2."
"The useful operating range of triodes may be extended into the positive-grid region by preventing electrons from reaching the grid. To do so, electron emission must be suppressed from the cathode area under the grid, and the emission that does take place must be guided through the grid openings. Both of these requirements are met by the use of passive-base emitting areas and by clean metal nonemitting areas of high work function. Calculation of electron trajectories in the absence of space charge shows that the two potentials on the cathode surface provide transverse fields which focus the electrons between the grid wires. For best focusing, there is an optimum height of the nonemitting stripe relative to the emitting surface. Measurements on large scale models of planar triodes show that these results can be achieved with the use of appropriate materials. Striking reductions in electron current to the positive grid are obtained with titanium or platinum nonemitting stripes. Pinhole camera studies of the current distribution and transverse velocities at the anode plane reveal the nature of the focusing action and conditions in the grid plane. Additional benefits of this construction are reduction of transverse velocity spread and more uniform electron transit times. Bipotential cathodes have been incorporated in practical size metal-ceramic triodes with the expected improvements in performance."
"The coupled-mode theory of a class of transverse-wave couplers in which the plane of polarization of the electric field rotates along the length of the coupler is described. The synchronism conditions between the circuit wave and the beam that lead to strong interaction with one or more of the transverse beam waves are given and the case of equal interaction with the two cyclotron waves is discussed in detail. It is observed that any two transverse waves of opposite polarization can be excited equally in a twisted coupler, or that coupling to one of two waves with the same phase velocity but opposite polarizations can be achieved."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Carlton G. Lehr, author of \"Spectrum Deterioration Caused by Virtual Cathodes in the Subsynchronous Region of a Microwave Magnetron,\" which appeared on pages 180-182 of the April, 1964, issue of these Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. Mr. Lehr would like to thank R. Vaughn of the General Electric Company, Schnectady, N.Y., for pointing out certain discrepancies in his paper. A consideration of these discrepancies revealed several errors which should be mentioned because they affect the evidence used to establish the relationship given in the text. On page 181, in Figs. 1 and 4, the values of I represented by the heavy lines are only 1/4 those obtained from (5) in the text. In Figs. 2 and 3, the values of I represented by the heavy lines are only 1/8 those obtained from (5) in the text."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A critical survey of capacitive effects in thin-film structures was made and design parameters to assess interelectrode coupling in integrated circuits were determined. By applying judiciously conformal mapping techniques, procedures and graphs were developed which permit evaluation of interfilm capacitances for many types of plane-parallel and cylindrical geometries. Representative designs of integrated circuits were analysed to demonstrate the effectiveness of these techniques."
"A self-consistent iterative scheme for the numerical calculation of dc potentials and currents in a one-dimensional transistor model is presented. Boundary conditions are applied only at points representing contacts. Input data are: doping profile, parameters governing excess carrier recombination, parameters describing the dependence of mobility on doping and on electric field, applied emitter and collector voltages, and a trial solution for the electrostatic potential. The major limitation of the present approach results from use of Boltzmann rather than Fermi statistics. Convergence of the iteration scheme is good for low and moderate injection levels."
"An analysis of the insulated-gate thin-film field-effect triode as a current limiter is presented, and a comparison between theory and experiment is made for samples with cadmium selenide as the semiconductor layer. The theoretical treatment involves the extension of the analysis ofp-njunction type current limiters to the thin-film, insulated-gate, field-effect device. Although the insulated-gate devices are operable in either enhancement or depletion modes, the analysis applies only to depletion mode operation. Good correlation between predicted and experimental values is found. This provides strong evidence that depletion mode operation of the device involves the modulation of semiconductor conductivity through a field induced variation of the depth of the space charge region. The characteristics of vacuum deposited cadmium selenide current limiters are also described."
"Thermal phenomena have been suggested as the initiating mechanisms for second breakdown in transistors. The experiments described below examine certain electrical and optical effects associated with second breakdown in order to determine if thermal effects can be held primarily responsible. In studying the open-base behavior of several types of devices, it was observed that second breakdown was followed by additional discontinuities at higher current levels, all similar to second breakdown in their electrical behavior. Simultaneously with the appearance of a voltage discontinuity, light was emitted by the device. The light output level generally increased monotonically with increasing collector current except when a voltage discontinuity occurred, at which time a discontinuous increase in the light output level also occurred. The spectral distribution of the emitted light was examined and found to be similar to the distribution from a single junction biased into avalanche. The results of the electrical measurements strongly suggest the existence of a number of interacting sites capable of sustaining second breakdown. The optical measurements indicate that the characteristics of a transistor in second breakdown are not purely thermal in nature, but that a plasma effect may be associated with a device exhibiting an anomalous breakdown."
"A comparison between Herrmann's optical theory and a pinhole probe study of a highly converged, perveance 0.015 × 10-6A/V3/2, electron beam in a confining magnetic field is presented. This comparison shows the theory to be obeyed with a good degree of accuracy. The application of the theory to the problem of optimizing the transmission of such thermal beams through long drift tubes is shown to lead to criteria which differ radically from those prescribed by the laminar theory."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The use of a bulk photoconductor as a detector for microwave-modulated light or as a mixer to detect the beat frequency between coherent optical sources is studied. A model for the photoconductor as a parametric conductance is presented and used in the analysis of a dc-biased detector and an ac-biased mixer-detector arrangement. The results of experimental measurements on both dc- and ac-biased detectors are presented and found to be in good agreement with the theoretically predicted performance. The bulk photoconductor is compared with the traveling-wave phototube and the PIN photodiode in both signal power and SNR and is found to compare favorably with these devices if the semiconductor parameters can be reasonably optimized and if it is biased with fairly high fields. The desired semiconductor properties are that the lifetime should be on the order of the reciprocal of the angular frequency of modulation, the mobility should be high, and the dark conductance of the sample should be very small."
"A simple method of estimating delay in a switching network is outlined. The simplicity of formulas thus obtained makes them readily applicable for circuit comparisons or device optimization purposes. It is shown that a term involving the product of base resistance and diffusion capacitance forms a major limitation on high-speed, voltage-driven circuits. This method is applicable to a general class of switching problems."
"The critical parameters important to the design of an instantly operational cathode (0.1 sec heating time) for use in power tubes are discussed. Design information showing material selection, mechanical considerations, solution to lineal expansion problems, and methods of assisted heating are covered. The treatment of the cathode heating problem is presented in semi-normalized terms to make it more adaptable to a wide variety of tube applications. The work reported in this paper resulted in the design and construction of a low inductance instantly operational cathode (0.1 sec heating time) that could be interchangeably placed in a production 250-watt UHF tetrode. This design is shown."
"By use of the finite-difference method of numerical analysis, a detailed numerical solution is obtained for the complete one-dimensional continuity equation, to study the transient and steady-state behavior of p-n junction diodes at moderate-to-high injection levels. The solution of the continuity equation is obtained for minority carriers in the base of a diode under the influence of drift, diffusion, and recombination. From the calculated distribution of minority carriers in the base, minority-carrier and majority-carrier currents and their components are obtained. The electric field and its components in the base are determined, and the total voltage across the diode and its components are calculated. All results are obtained for transient and steady-state conditions. The effect of variations of certain physical parameters on the diode behavior is investigated. All calculations were performed on the IBM 709 digital computer."
"Summary form only given, as follows. In the October, 1964, issue of thlse Transactions, on Covers II and III, the following listings should have appeared as indicated below: C.K. Birdsall in place of C.C. Cutler; J.L. Moll in place of J.F. Gibbons; B.J. Wilson in place of W.V. Wright, Jr."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper describes experiments which were devised to examine large-signal performance in klystrons focused by magnetic fields of finite magnitude. The experimental results are related to the theoretical analyses of Brewer, who treated small-signal bunching for magnetic fields of various magnitudes, and of Webber, who treated large-signal bunching for an infinite magnetic field intensity. The experiments agree with these theories where they apply, and additionally, the Webber theory continues to describe the transition from small to large signal for finite magnitude magnetic fields, when one uses the appropriate reduced plasma frequency in the bunching parameter. The relation of output cavity RF driving current, output cavity voltage, and magnetic field to conversion efficiency is also examined. It is found that maximum output power is obtained by maximizing driving current, but that with driving currents being equal, higher efficiency may be obtained in the beams which are magnetically more tightly confined; it appears that the higher magnetic field allows the output voltage to rise higher without defocusing the beam in the output cavity."
"The presence of a beam of high-speed secondary electrons in a traveling-wave tube affects the amplification and cross-modulation characteristics of the tube. When primary electrons strike the collector electrode, secondary electrons are produced. The high-speed secondary electrons have a velocity approximately equal to the primary electrons and can form a reverse beam which serves as a feedback mechanism within the traveling-wave tube. Coupling of the signal to the reverse beam and the influence of the reverse beam on the forward amplification system are investigated. The principal effects of this secondary beam are that a second-order fluctuation is superimposed on the usual variation of gain as the helix voltage is varied, and that the cross-modulation characteristics of the tube are materially altered, with the possible production of \"negative\" cross modulation. Experimental results demonstrate the existence of these effects and indicate that they are absent when the secondary beam is eliminated."
"The stability of an electron beam in a superimposed sinusoidal and uniform magnetic field is theoretically and experimentally investigated. The first instability region degenerates to a point within the first well-known passband for a zero uniform field component, whereas the second instability region coincides with the first stopband of the sinusoidal field. These considerations are of practical significance for periodic magnetically-focused electron beams."
"Charge stored in transistors can be used to replace capacitors or other storage elements for use in an integrated circuit binary. An integrated J-K Flip-Flop has been made using this technique with excellent results."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"The function and response of a cathode-ray tube phosphor is analyzed and a mathematical technique is described to show how the intrinsic behavior of the phosphor can be deduced from laboratory measurements. A useful representative model is constructed to identify the intrinsic properties of the component. The time dependent phosphor response function is the significant component in this case. After the intrinsic properties of the phosphor have been identified, it is possible to characterize the cathode-ray tube, under dynamic rather than static conditions, using the convolution integral. In this case, the properties of the flying spot emerge from experimental data taken in the direction of motion, and the influence of the phosphor's time properties in this direction is removed. With the convolution integral, the CRT peak spectral radiance, efficiency, and effective electron spot size are found for the variables of: wavelength, sweep speed, and current. The characterization method developed is described and illustrated. Since it is possible to secure data at a device operating point, rather than at some far removed point, the technique described in this paper is important to systems designers."
"This paper describes a family of high-contrast display storage tubes which theoretically offer infinite contrast ratios without the use of cumbersome external circuitry. High contrast is achieved in the Westinghouse Display Storage Tubes through the use of a grid located between the storage grid and the viewing screen. A low voltage negative pulse applied to this grid in phase with the positive erase pulse applied to the storage grid eliminates the background brightness inherent to conventional display storage tubes When they are used in the controllable persistence mode. Written information thus appears as bright on black while retaining all the storage and integration features of conventional display storage tubes. Data is presented to show the contrast ratios and number of useful levels (grey scales) obtained with these tubes. Other operational data including brightness, storage time, persistence, erase time, resolution, and environmental characteristics are presented and compared with standard display storage tubes."
"A gun structure capable of nanosecond beam intensification has been developed. The paper will present design details and test results. The development was prompted by an immediate need for such a device in a specific project. However, with the trend towards shorter duration pulses, the development of wide-bandwidth oscilloscopes and high-scan-rate television systems, a gun structure capable of nanosecond beam intensification should have many applications. The design also provides for better control of the spot size than is possible with a conventional gun. Preliminary tests of an experimental tube have shown that the gun is capable of producing a visible display of a single 1-nsec pulse, of 10 v intensification voltage with an accelerating potential of 24 kv."
"Cadmium telluride has been synthesized from the purified elements. This process, when conducted under \"Semi-white\" room conditions in inert atmosphere has not introduced cation impurities. A Bridgman growth technique has yielded single crystals 10 mm diameter up to 50 mm long. Undoped crystals are weakly p-type and reproducible. Heavily doped n-type crystals have also been grown with less reproducibility. Heavily doped n-type crystals are low resistivity, 1 to 10 ohm-centimeter. A vapor-phase growth technique has yielded single crystals up to several mm3in volume. The undoped crystals are weakly p-type. Alloy pn junctions showing both photovoltage and photomodulation have been fabricated on weakly p-type wafers. Some units have demonstrated a zener type of breakdown in the reverse direction. The maximum voltage thus observed is about 25 v. Alloy pn junctions showing both photovoltage and photomodulation have been fabricated from 0.05 percent indium doped single crystal cadmium telluride. The material has a resistivity of about one ohm-centimeter. Forward characteristics show a knee at 200 or 300 millivolts. The reverse breakdown is nearly zener type at 20 volts."
"A technique has been developed that will produce a hysteresis in the electrical conductivity of CdSe. This phenomenon can be used to control the luminous emittance of electroluminescent cells by fabricating a solid state switch made of this CdSe material in series with an electroluminescent element. A panel has been fabricated using a multiplicity of these elements by wiring the EL elements in rows and the CdSe elements in columns. This panel is energized by applying a bias voltage uniformly to all the elements and addressing a particular element with voltage pulses applied by matrix techniques. This paper will describe the principles of operation and outline the construction techniques for this display. The performance characteristics of a 100 element panel will be discussed. This panel, with 20 lines per inch resolution, has been operated with addressing pulses of 25 microseconds duration, and an output brightness of 20 foot-lamberts. The construction process is adaptable to mass production, resulting in an ultimate low cost. The display has memory, thus allowing random access, and operates on very little power. The demonstration of this display represents a significant advancement to the state of the art, since it possesses the characteristics necessary for the development of practical large area displays."
"This paper discusses the information storage characteristics of an improved lead zirconate-lead titanate ferroelectric ceramic composition. The memory elements discussed are ceramic disc resonators operated in the radial extensional mode and utilizing small-signal, nondestructive readout of the remanent polarization state. Fabrication procedure and design considerations such as the effect of electrode geometry are discussed and an approximate equivalent circuit of a multibit memory element is presented. Device charactristics such as complex transfer characteristics, dependence of small-signal parameters on polarization state, and temperature effects are given. Various methods of information read-in and readout are discussed. Possible applications of this memory include moderate speed computing systems, long-term information storage, and use in extreme environmental conditions."
"A 20 kW CW traveling wave tube with 200 Mc bandwidth at 7.8 Gc has been designed and tested successfully. Full design bandwidth has been achieved at the 20 kW CW level at efficiencies in excess of 40 per cent. Maximum power output at band center is 30.2 kW at 41.5 per cent efficiency. Depressed collector operation using a single stage collector has permitted CW operation at 46 per cent efficiency. High duty pulsed operation has yielded efficiencies in excess of 50 per cent with depressed collector. The circuit used in this tube is of the coupled cavity type with 5.3 per cent cold bandwidth and midband Pierce impedance of 112 ohms in the first forward space harmonic. An eight-cavity, unsevered circuit provided 16-20 db small signal gain. A confined flow, solid convergent beam at 0.8 microperveance was used with a single stage collector. Focusing was achieved with an open yoke electromagnet."
"The extensive theoretical and practical data available on high gain high power klystrons on the one hand and on wide band traveling wave tubes on the other has induced many microwave tube workers to attempt hybrid design combinations, with the objectives of achieving various operational advantages. In the past, Doehler, Huber, Kleen, Warneke, Gittens, Yadavali, Lichtenberg, and others have experimented with such tubes. At Varian, efforts have centered around the S-band VA-145A and the C-band VA-146A multi-megawatt pulse power hybrid tubes. These devices have been called variously hybrid TWT's, traveling wave klystrons, TWK's, and Twystron hybrid TWT's. Perhaps the most interesting feature of these tubes is the compatibility achieved between the broadband klystron RF driver input circuit and the TWT forward fundamental extended interaction RF output circuit, leading to unique and desirable combinations of wide bandwidth, high gain, high power, high operating efficiency, and relative uniformity of operating characteristics. The general operational performance exceeds that possible with broadband pulse power beam tubes of prior art. This report presents recent test results outlining the operating characteristics of these tubes. Some of the important tube design features will be presented as background material."
"A high-power millimeter-wave traveling-wave amplifier tube is described, which delivers in excess of one kilowatt of CW output power at 55 Gc. The tube features a severed construction to give stability when operating into highly reflective loads. It has a high gain of the order of 25 db. The input end of the output slow-wave section is brought out at the sever to an external port. Thus, it is possible to monitor reflected power and dissipate it in an external load. Oversize waveguide for handling high power is employed at both ends of the output section. An efficiency of 35% is obtained by using a liquid-cooled, depressed collector. Beam area compression is 100 to 1 with a cathode potential of 25 KV and perveance of0.1 \\times 10^{-6}. Careful gun design and the microinch tolerances of the small coupled-cavity interaction structure make possible the transmission under full rf drive of 98% of the 10 kilowatt beam through a .033 inch diameter beam hole. Focusing field is less than 4 kilogauss. Kilowatt-range tubes are shown to be possible at millimeter-wave frequencies."
"A series of high gain, high efficiency traveling-wave tubes are described which have been specifically designed for ground based communication transmitters. These devices employ improved versions of the coupled-cavity circuit along with special techniques for band edge oscillation suppression. Noise measurements close to the carrier prove an unusually low degree of spurious output and a minimum of ion induced noise. Efficiencies of 20% to 33% have been achieved without the use of a depressed collector. At X-band efficiencies in excess of 40% have been demonstrated in a 10 kw amplifier with 50 db of gain through the use of a depressed collector. No observable regeneration effects have been present under these conditions. Linearity and intermodulation distortion have been extensively investigated and the results compared with other types of microwave amplifiers. A new method of negative feedback has been evolved which reduces third order distortion by at least 20 db beyond the value measured without feedback."
"This paper describes the work to date on the development of a 2 kilowatt CW octave bandwidth traveling-wave tube. The tube is being designed as a light-weight tube which is cooled with vapor phase cooling. The tube uses a helix structure supported by brazed beryllia wedges. The tube is focused by a lightweight aluminum foil solenoid which focuses a perveance7 \\times 10^{-6}solid electron beam. The solenoid was selected to focus this tube, because it resulted in the smallest sized over-all tube and system package. The total weight of the tube, including the solenoid, is approximately 5 pounds. The tube is 15 inches long and has a maximum diameter, less the connectors, of 2 inches. The tube operates from 700 to 1400 mc. The best results to date have been a measured 1200 watts of CW power. The collector has been operated at 5500 watts of power while being cooled with water which is converted to 100 per cent steam. Efficiencies have been measured greater than 24 per cent beam efficiency and 30 per cent over-all efficiency with collector depression over an octave bandwidth."
"The power spectrum and transfer functions have been examined for a variety of \"X\" band power amplifier tubes. The primary interest has been in the applicability of these tubes to second generation sophisticated electronic systems employing coherent doppler data processing. The amplifier tubes examined are the synchronized magnetron, the traveling wave tube, and a crossed field amplifier. The specific tubes employed in the investigation were the Litton 65 KW L6343A magnetron, the Hughes 50 KW traveling wave tube 307H, and the 500 KW SFD 218 crossed-field amplifier. Laboratory experiments were designed to provide primary data useful to the electronic system designer. This data consisted of the (1) intra-spectral noise characteristics of these pulsed amplifiers at low pulse repetition rates and (2) the gain and phase deviations as a function of frequency. The noise data was obtained for a 2 KC pulse rate and a selective filter bandwidth of 100 cps. Spectrum photographs indicating the intra-spectral noise level are provided for a dynamic range of 50 db. The transfer functions obtained for these tubes have been photographed for the frequency interval of interest and define the gain and phase deviations observed. A brief description and block diagram are provided of test equipment employed in performing the experiments."
"New semiconducter device structures with beam leads are described. Contacts, approximately 10 µ thick, are deposited on the semiconductor slice as an array of metal patterns and the excess semiconductor is then removed leaving the device or devices with semirigid beam leads cantilevered beyond the semiconductor. The leads provide structural support for chips; they may be welded to thin film circuits or headers. This obviates the need for wafer bonding and thermocompression wire bonding to the chip. The metal overlay may also be used as hermetic junction seals when required. This paper describes application of the new structure to moderate and high-speed transistors, and test devices. Thermal aging in 360°C steam indicates high resistance to ambient penetration. High-temperature bias aging indicates behavior similar to planar structures; i. e., surface-potential drift. Although these effects impose design constraints, they do not preclude the design and fabrication of many types of useful devices. Thermal rise in these structures is acceptable for low-to-medium-power applications. For higher power, wafer heat sinking may be used. Assemblies of units have been successfully centrifuged to 100,000 g's, and other mechanical tests have been performed."
"Devices with beam leads, described in the previous paper, can be connected into circuits in many ways. Examples of the following are shown: an isolated device or devices mounted in an ordinary header; transistors appliquéd to a tantalum thin-film circuit; transistors and beam-lead silicon diffused resistors appliquéd to a connection pattern on ceramic. Working circuits of both analog and digital types are included. An extension of the beam-connection concept to batch-fabricated integrated circuits is described. In these, the top-surface intraconnections between devices are made strong in the same way as the leads from the circuit. Isolation trenches are cut through from the back surface in the same process which disconnects the circuits and exposes the leads. Parasitic capacitance is negligible in such circuits. Performance of high-speed digital circuits made in this way is given."
"Sikina, Casey, et al have indicated that a tantalum thin-film resistor complement on silicon integrated circuits will yield increased performance and lower cost for most microcircuits now fabricated using the silicon planar process alone. This paper describes a process in which tantalum is used as the material for the formation of film resistors on silicon integrated circuits. Tantalum was selected for this purpose over other thin-film materials for the following reasons: 1. It has a wide and desirable range of available bulk resistivities when used in conjunction with a specialized sputtering technique. 2. It has the ability to form a chemically inert, stable, and self-limiting surface oxide either by thermal or anodic means. 3. A relatively low thermal coefficient of resistance is associated with tantalum films in the required sheet resistivity range. Solutions are described to two of the basic problems encountered in the development of the process. The first problem involves the inability of sputtered tantalum to form a satisfactory low-resistance ohmic contact to silicon contacts. The solution is to deposit and alloy an aluminum contacting finger to the silicon contact before deposition of the resistor tantalum. The second problem is the surface damage and potential penetration of the protective SiO2by the tantalum etching solution. A technique is described for protecting the SiO2with a thin metal oxide layer which, for the required etching time, is impervious to the tantalum etching solution."
"Heretofore, the schemes for fabricating a complementary transistor structure in a monolithic functional block entailed either some additional, difficult-to-control processing steps or a sacrifice in isolation of the collector regions of one type of transistor. This paper describes an isolated p-n-p transistor structure fabricated by the same technique used for the conventional all n-p-n transistor functional block without any additional processing steps. The basic p-n-p transistor has a lateral structure. During the p-type base diffusion of the n-p-n transistor, two concentric p-type regions at close distance are selectively diffused into an isolated n-type region such as that used for the collector of an n-p-n transistor. The center p-type diffused region forms the emitter and the outer ring forms the collector. The n-type space between these two regions serves as the base. The current gain of this transistor is not high, typically around unity. However, by amplifying the collector current of the p-n-p transistor with an n-p-n transistor, the composite transistor acts like a high gain p-n-p transistor and the composite current gain can be made comparable to that of the n-p-n transistor in the same functional block. The lateral complementary transistor has been used extensively and successfully for the fabrication of linear functional blocks such as those used in the Advanced Minuteman Program."
"The low-frequency response attainable in semiconductor network ac amplifiers is limited by the large physical size required for coupling components. Better low-frequency response can be achieved with field effect amplifiers than with transistor amplifiers, but at the expense of reduced bandwidth. Hence, direct-coupled transistor stages are commonly used in semiconductor network video amplifiers when high cutoff frequencies are required. A direct-coupled video amplifier has the disadvantage, however, that a dc component will be produced in the output for either a dc input component or drift within the direct-coupled amplifier."
"The use of silicon dioxide as an isolation barrier to improve frequency and voltage ratings of integrated devices has been reported previously. The purpose of this paper is to introduce an improved dielectric film, which is far superior to silicon dioxide, and its application in fabricating integrated devices. With this improved isolation film, which may be formed in the epitaxial reactor, blocking voltage results exceed those obtained with silicon dioxide. This isolation film has extended device design freedoms. The formation and properties of this new isolating agent as well as several of its applications will be presented. Applications include integrated high frequency linear amplifiers with flat frequency response up to 150 Mc, complementary circuits and novel devices unachievable with conventional technology."
"A silicon single-chip random-locked pulse generator has been fabricated by using component redundancy and two layer interconnect techniques. The system consists of 17 DTL Nand gates with a total of 153 components. The circuit has two input and two output terminals. Its function will be briefly described. Processing yield and single layer interconnections are the basic restrictions for the fabrication of complex monolithic subsystems. The yield problem has been overcome by using a component redundancy technique. The interconnection problem has been solved by using two layer interconnections separated by an insulating layer. Combination of these two techniques was utilized for manufacturing of the device."
"A technique has been developed for preparing oxide-isolated silicon structures for use in fabrication of monolithic silicon microcircuits. In contrast to the techniques initially described for obtaining oxide-isolated structures, completely flat wafers containing patterns of oxide-isolated silicon regions can be produced without resorting to lapping or polishing operations. Resulting microcircuits, similar to those prepared by more critical and more cosily oxide-isolation techniques, possess all of the advantages over circuits in which isolation is obtained by reverse biasing of pn junctions, including low parasitic capacitance, high dielectric breakdown, and low leakage current. The new technique is compared with previously-described sequences for obtaining oxide-isolated silicon structures by the steps of selective etching of an isolation pattern followed by thermal oxidation, vapor plating of polycrystalline silicon, and precision lapping and polishing. It is shown that the thickness of the n-type layer in, for example, circuits in which the transistors are prepared by double diffusion into n-type isolated regions with underlying n+layers, can be controlled within a few microns over a wafer 3 cm in diameter. Accurate control of the n layer thickness does not require control of thickness and parallelism during lapping and mechanical polishing, or precise control of chemical etching of silicon. The feasibility of the new approach has been demonstrated with a number of structure."
"Laser action at 8.5 µ has been observed from PbSe diodes. The diodes were prepared from p-type PbSe Which had been annealed under closely controlled conditions of temperature and Se vapor pressure to obtain a hole concentration of4.7 \\times 10^{17}cm-3. The n-p junction was formed by diffusing excess Pb into a cleaved"
"In the practical application of pulsed injection lasers it is necessary to distinguish between the power and energy spectra. Most workers never distinguish or identify spectra. When the terms are used, power and energy spectra have been used interchangeably with the resultant confusion. Due to the closer spacing between modes in gas and insulator-type lasers, this distinction is not nearly so important as it is for injection lasers."
"The temperature behavior of GaAs luminescent diodes varies widely. We show that the degradation of the incoherent radiation with increasing temperature is not constant, the slope is a function of temperature, and this functional dependence is not the same for all classes of diodes. For one extreme class of diodes the ratio of power output at 77°K to 300°K is in the ratio of 5:1 while for the other extreme class the ratio is 100:1. In most cases the rate of degradation in the neighborhood of 77°K is considerably greater than at elevated temperatures. The slope of the power versus temperature curve at 77°K may be greater by one order of magnitude than that at 300° K. For the temperature range greater than 150° K, the slope is more or less constant for all diodes. The rate of degradation at 77°K is independent of the value of efficiency at 77°K."
"This paper describes the properties of electronic circuit isolators which utilize fiber optic bundles to couple the emission from a GaAs luminescent diode to a silicon PIN photodiode. There results a unilateral signal coupling element whose characteristics are essentially independent of the voltage that exists between the input and output ports of the device. The input-output isolation exceeds that of most other devices and is applicable from dc to the microwave region. The input port of this structure is a GaAs diode which converts electrons to photons in a quasi-linear fashion. A portion of the generated photons are emitted into the optic fiber bundle and propagate toward a reverse biased photodiode with a wide intrinsic region. The PIN photodiode acts as a linear quantum detector. Design considerations and resultant performance of the isolators will be discussed with respect to factors as: 1. Length of the optic bundle. 2. Numerical aperture of the optic bundle. 3. Angular and spectral distribution of the photons. 4. The effects of optic bundle-semiconductor interface materials. 5. Electrical and optical dimensions and geometry. 6. Input-to-output parasitic impedances. 7. Quantum efficiencies, gains, and bandwidths. 8. Transfer linearity, dynamic range, and noise. The importance of these factors in specific applications, such as \"dc pulse transformers\", circuit isolators, and modulators, will be considered."
"When the coherent beam from one laser is made to impinge on the active region of a second laser, a cooperative effect (the reduction of the threshold current of the second laser) or a quenching effect (the reduction of the optical output of the second laser) may be observed depending upon the relative orientation of the two lasing beams. These effects have been experimentally studied at 2°K and 77°K in a new configuration which permits closer optical coupling between the lasers than has previously been reported, thus making these effects an order of magnitude more prominent and revealing a new effect. The closer optical coupling is achieved by simultaneously diffusing both laser junctions into one block of GaAs with an isolating region separating the two junctions obtained by use of the diffusion masking property of SiO2. Current dependent frequency shifting of the predominant lasing mode has been observed in conjunction with the cooperative effect. A new effect, a reduction in the threshold current of the second laser by the optical pumping action of the spontaneous emission from the first laser is also reported. This pumping effect, combined with the quenching effect in the same unit, has made possible the fabrication of a new solid state \"exclusive or\" device which has electrical inputs and an optical output. A quantitative model which gives a coherent picture of these various effects will also be presented."
"A light-activated low-level switch has been developed for multiplexing applications. The switch consists of an electroluminescent GaAs PN diode and a double emitter silicon transistor. (Both NPN and PNP units have been made.) The two (light emitter and detector) are coupled optically. The switch is a substantial improvement over existing switching devices used in multiplexors. A general design theory based on Ebers & Moll's paper is given with special emphasis on breakdown voltage, \"ON\" impedance, offset voltage, and switching speed. It is shown how the design considerations lead to a specific geometry for the detector. Results of extensive testing are reported. The devices operating with a 100 mw diode input showed the following characteristics: NPN PNP BVEE20-25 v 30-40 v REE10-15 \\Omega <100 \\OmegaVo<50 µv <50 µv ton{RL=10K} {RL=1M} < 3 µsec < 3µsec toff{RL=10K} <10 µsec <10 µsec {RL=1M} <150 µsec <150 µsec"
"The traveling-wave klystron (TWK) was conceived as a superpower microwave amplifier capable of producing flat broadband power levels many times greater than can be achieved with a single beam device. This paper outlines the design philosophy, the principles of operation and their application to an S-band 10 beam traveling-wave klystron and describes the first practical demonstration at S-band in which power levels in excess of 1.0 MW with 14% bandwidth (± 1 db) and 20 db high level gain were obtained. The ever increasing range and data handling requirements of modern communication and defense systems have given rise to a need for microwave amplifiers having power output and bandwidth capabilities which greatly exceed those of present day state of the art single beam klystrons or traveling-wave tubes."
"The klystrons needed to power the SLAC two-mile accelerator have nominal power output specifications of 24 Mw peak, 22 kw average. The minimum gain is 50 db and extremely stringent specifications have been imposed on noise and phase stability. The reasons for the selection of permanent-magnet focusing, including both advantages and disadvantages, will be reviewed. The availability of permanent magnet materials and the resultant limitations in maximum field and length resulted in the necessity for some compromises in the tube electrical design. Of particular importance are the field shaping in the gun region, the transverse fields in the gun and interaction region, and the magnetic field in the collector region. The high gain and high power requirements of this klystron resulted in some unexpected oscillations, the solution of which will be discussed. As of now, several klystrons have been tested which achieve between 18 and 21 Mw in permanent magnet at efficiencies of approximately 35%. The comparison of their performance with the performance of the same tube in electromagnets will be discussed."
"An S-band six-cavity klystron employing periodic focusing and rated at 60 Kw at 0.002 duty has been developed. The tube design is based on an integral polepiece arrangement which serves to provide a magnetic field at the gaps without compromising the cavity design. The cavities are tunable and water-cooled. A perveance2 \\times 10^{-6}beam with a convergence of 18:1 is used. The beam transmission is 98 per cent but drops to 80 per cent at full drive. The klystron has been tested to power levels above 120 Kw and operates at an efficiency of 35 per cent. The gain is in excess of 60 db with a nominal 30 Mc bandwidth. Several of these tubes are in operation at the Stanford Project M Linear Accelerator."
"A two-year program to develop a klystron amplifier operating at 8 Gc and delivering one megawatt of CW power is nearing conclusion. The final tube employs extended-interaction cavities with the output cavity having four output windows. The tube is designed to operate at 150 kilovolts at a micro-perveance of about 0.29. At last year's meeting a paper described several experiments having to do with the design of an electron gun and focusing system providing in excess of 99.9% beam transmission at the 2 megawatt DC level. Test results of short pulse tubes was also given."
"A commercially available 4 cavity klystron was modified so that d.c. bias could be applied across the interaction gaps, and a considerable increase in efficiency resulted. Efficiencies greater than 65% were obtained (with gain greater than 40 db) without depressing the collector of the tube. By varying the beam power, efficiencies of greater than 60% were obtained over an 8:1 range of power output without sacrificing gain, thus the flexibility of the tube was also enhanced. Experimental evidence indicates that several different factors are responsible for the increase in efficiency, and the effect of bias on these factors is clearly illustrated. The application of bias across the interaction gap is shown to cause a remarkable reduction in beam loading impedance by eliminating slow secondary electrons and also results in the enhancement of density modulation as well as a signficant reduction in velocity spread. Preliminary results also indicate that the phase of a biased gap tube can be varied quite accurately over an extremely wide range by adjusting the bias; this is a characteristic which is clearly desirable for phased array radar application. Finally, the results of applying bias across the gaps of a tube fitted with a depressed collector are discussed."
"This paper presents the design and characteristics of a planar epitaxial diffused germanium microwave transistor. The device was designed to be electrically and mechanically interchangeable with a germanium mesa microwave transistor which has an extrapolated unity gain frequency (ft) of approximately 3 gigacycles. A description of the process technology used to fabricate a planar device with performance characteristics in this region will be given. The mounting and package features that provide device terminations which enable the performance inherent in the device element to be more fully utilized will be described. Consideration will also be given to mechanical and electrical reliability problems."
"Techniques have been developed for fabricating germanium planar transistors which are superior in performance to mesa types. This paper discusses the results of basic fabrication studies, summarizes the design of several different microwave planar germanium transistors and presents measurement results of encapsulated devices. With the planar process the junction area is limited by a mask. This is achieved by depositing SiO2on the surface of the germanium and etching a window in the oxide by photoengraving technique to define the base area. The remaining oxide acts as a mask against diffusion."
"Silicon transistors, particularly double-diffused NPN, have not previously demonstrated the high frequency performance predicted by theoretical analysis. This lack of correlation between theoretical and experimental performance has limited the high frequency use of NPN silicon transistors generally, and the attainment of high speed silicon microcircuits specifically. Experimental results have demonstrated the various limiting factors of NPN silicon transistors and the methods used to overcome the limitations in fabricating very high speed silicon microcircuits."
"Silicon transistors have been fabricated which exhibit useful current gain at emitter current levels below 10-9amp. It has been proposed that the fall off of current gain with decreasing emitter current is due to the recombination of the surface component of injected current. The structure described decreases the loss due to such recombination by placing the surface collector base junction in very close proximity to the surface emitter base junction. The normal current gain maximum is in the range of 10-3amp. However, below this point some devices have shown the characteristic of increasing current gain with decreasing emitter current down to approximately 10-6amp. Below this point the gain falls off, with further lowering of the emitter current, in the conventional manner. These devices have then two beta peaks, one at 10-3amp and one at 10-6amp. This characteristic is shown to be dependent upon surface base width. The structure also allows the devices to be made with very small junction areas, and the resulting low capacitances give them unusual and useful properties."
"A plane parallel analog transistor has been fabricated by combining the techniques of epitaxial growth, impurity diffusion and diffusion masking as presently used in planar silicon device and integrated circuit fabrication. The MULTI-CHANNEL FET is an exact solid state equivalent of a closely spaced vacuum tube triode. The gate or grid of this unipolar device is completely embedded inside the semiconductor. It consists of a high density mesh network, which achieves a high transconductance and allows for high saturation currents. The MULTI-CHANNEL FET is readily adaptable to integrated circuit techniques in its planar form and extends transconductance, frequency of operation and power output beyond that of standard field effect transistor designs. There will be a discussion of several device structures fabricated during this study. Experimental devices with 100 parallel-channels achieved the following electrical characteristics: gm= 10mA/V, IDSS= 25mA, VP= 10V, CGD= 5 pf (at 10V), BVDSS= 60V, IGS= 10nA (at 10V), PG = 14 db at 60 Mc, PG = 10 db at 100 Mc, extrapolated fmax= 300 Mc and a 3 db gmcut-off frequency of 275 Mc. A device capable of producing a maximum frequency of oscillation of 1,000 Mc in relation to optimum geometry and impurity profiles will be presented."
"A new device has been developed that is similar to the FET triode, but which offers several significant advantages over the latter. By the addition of a shield electrode (gate) between the gate and drain, it is possible to obtain a high degree of isolation between the output and the input. Most significantly, the de-coupling provides: 1. A substantial reduction of CGD, by nearly two orders of magnitude, compared to a conventional triode of similar dimensions. 2. An increase of rdby about the same amount, and hence the amplification factor, µ = gmrd. 3. The quiescent gate leakage current is low and essentially independent of drain voltage. In addition to its primary function as a shield, the second gate may also be considered as an auxiliary input point. Since the pinch-off voltage is nearly the same as the control gate, it may be used for AGC or similar functions. The device is made by the planar process and hence may be made quite small. It is, therefore, suitable for high-frequency operation. Design trade-offs will be considered, and a model presented for the characterization of the tetrode."
"Gate turn-off np np devices have been fabricated and studied under various load current and gate turn-off current conditions. High-speed gate turn-off has been achieved by a selective and controlled gold diffusion. In gate turn-off of pnpn structures there is a delay time and a fall time associated with the decay of the load current. Both of these times are inversely related to the gate current used in turn-off. The fall time is characterized by two time constants determined by the transit time of minority carriers in the two base regions of the pnpn structure. One of these time constants is usually long (about 20 microseconds) because of the wide base necessary to attain high breakover voltages."
"This paper discusses methods of controlling the turn-off gain of the gate-controlled switch. Goldey has shown that the turn-off gain of a gate-controlled switch can be given by β = α1α1+α2-1 where α1and α2represent the current gain across the gated and ungated base layers. If the minority carrier lifetime of the n-base layer is adjusted so that α2is slightly larger than 1 - α1the turn-off gain will be high."
"A small helium-neon gas laser was assembled and tested. The unit features temperature-compensated cavity design, electromagnetically tunable cavity length, wide axial mode separation to assure single TEMoonmode operation, control circuitry for frequency sweep and AFC, and rugged coaxial construction. The re-entrant mirror mounts and the invar main-body assure negligible changes of the cavity length during warm-up and with changes of temperature, through proper choice of the respective expansion lengths. The high-gain double-walled plasma tube renders single-ended power output in excess of 200 microwatts at the 6328 Å wavelength."
"Experimental studies of lasers with mode coupling will be described. Forced mode coupling was achieved through the use of an ultrasonic diffraction grating placed inside the cavity as described by Hargrove, et al. Experimental data was obtained with He-Ne and argon lasers whose axial mode spacing was equal to 100 Mc. When sufficient mode coupling is introduced into the cavity, the laser output consists of a periodic train of subnanosecond width pulses without an appreciable reduction in average output power. The ratio of peak power with mode coupling to the average power is approximately equal to the number of coupled modes. A typical number of 20 coupled modes results in a peak power of 20 times the average power. The theoretical pulse width was approximately 10 nanoseconds divided by the number of coupled modes. Pulse widths of ∼ 0.5 nanoseconds have been observed with a high-speed photomultiplier consistent with theory. In addition, it was observed that mode coupling can occur naturally in a laser without the Use of the internal modulator. The experimental conditions necessary for obtaining a self-pulsing laser will be discussed. A theoretical explanation, based upon some preliminary experiments, will be described."
"One of the limiting technologies affecting the utilization of lasers is the problem of efficient modulation of laser radiation. Most optical modulators have some or all of the following defects: They require a substantial amount of drive power; they have very small modulation depths; or they produce undesired sidebands in addition to the modulation of interest. We have built and tested a single-sideband modulator which overcomes these difficulties. We have placed an electro-optic modulator in a laser cavity in such a way as to couple out all the available laser power and translate its frequency. Modulators can be made for frequencies from 30 Mc to 10 Gc, with bandwidths of as much as 100 Mc in the latter case. A KDP modulator can be placed within a laser cavity to produce polarization modulation which can then be coupled out by means of the polarizing optics or the Brewster angle windows. A 3 Gc single-sideband suppressed-carrier modulator making use of this selective coupling is described. The cavity-type KDP modulator is placed in the laser cavity with the electrically induced axes of the KDP at 45° to the direction of polarization of the laser oscillation. In modulators described earlier, a birefringent plate was necessary to permit sideband suppression. In this internal modulator, we make use of the natural birefringence of the KDF to allow us to omit the birefringent plate. Thus we have a means for shifting the frequency of a laser without sacrificing any of the potentially available laser power. As compared with external modulators, the incorporation of the single-sideband modulator into the laser cavity gives almost a hundredfold increase in the amount of frequency shifted power that can be obtained from a given laser, as a function of modulation power."
"Ruby exhibits the Zeeman effect in the energy levels responsible for the absorption of the R1line. When a ruby laser is directed to pass through a section of unexcited ruby rod, the intensity of the transmitted beam is strongly dependent upon the magnetic field applied to the absorber. This effect was used to modulate the amplitude of a pulsed ruby laser in the microwave frequency region. The experimental modulator consisted of a 0.2 inch long ruby absorber located at one end of an S-band TE111mode cylindrical cavity pumped by a 3.2 Gc microwave source. A d.c. bias magnetic field was also applied to the absorber. When both the laser and the absorber rods were cooled to 80° K, the modulated beam attained maximum modulation index with a bias field of 2.5 kOe. This and other experimental results agree well with calculations made from a small-signal analysis of this modulation technique, and indicate that the various known relaxation mechanisms in the spin system of ruby do not impose a frequency limit to this method of modulation. Comparison between this technique and other conventional methods, as well as criteria for achieving high modulation efficiency, will be discussed in light of the small-signal analysis."
"Photoconductive and photovoltaic devices for detection of short wavelength visible and ultraviolet radiation have not previously been developed to the same extent as solid state infrared detectors. The spectral response of semiconductor devices generally exhibits a sharp drop in sensitivity with decreasing wavelength e. g. in standard Si devices, the Dλ at 4000 Å is lower than the Dλ at 8000 Å by orders of magnitude and is dropping rapidly as one proceeds into the ultraviolet."
"Until recently most approaches to the detection of microwave power have depended upon the nonlinear resistance properties of silicon or germanium point contact diodes or upon the thermal properties of various materials which exhibit thermistor or bolometric action. A new class of solid state microwave detectors based upon the hot carrier properties of majority carriers in germanium has been described. These hot carrier detectors are based upon the non-equilibrium carrier distribution which results when an incident microwave field accelerates the free carriers so that they acquire more energy than the lattice in which they reside. These hot carriers, out of equilibrium with the lattice, give rise to a thermoelectric voltage which is proportional to the incident rf field. This paper describes the design, fabrication and performance of hot cartier detectors using high resistivity silicon and bonded point contacts. Direct-current characteristics as well as rf properties in the range from 1-10 Gc are described. Of particular interest are power sensitivity, dynamic range and power handling capability."
"Hot carrier detector diodes have given an improvement in sensitivity as video detectors at X-Band when a steep thermal gradient was imposed in the region in the semiconductor where the majority carriers are generated by virtue of the RF signal. Temperature gradients of the order of 10,000 degrees/cm were obtained by mounting the semiconductor die on a bismuth telluride cooling couple and pumping the heat through the semiconductor die from the ohmic point contact. The interaction of the AC thermoelectric effect with a DC thermal gradient produces the enhancement which can be understood in terms of non-equilibrium carrier concentrations generated in distances less than the carrier diffusion length. A simple one dimensional model with linear temperature gradients shows enhancements of the order of magnitude observed."
"This paper describes the development of an ultra-low-noise TWT, using permanent magnet focusing, that operates over the 8 to 12 Gc frequency band. The terminal noise figure is less than 5 db with spot noise figures on a few developmental models approaching 4 db. Gain across the frequency band is greater than 25 db and the saturated power output is approximately 1 mw. The unique features of this tube and the key to obtaining the ultra-low-noise performance lie in the systematic development of 1) the electron gun-- where the potential distribution in the cathode-first anode region is independently and optimally adjusted; 2) the cathode--where a novel, very thin emitting annulus signficantly increases the electron density and forces the normalized beam impedance at the cathode plane to approach unity; 3) the helix assembly--where the copper-plated quartz rod-supported helix and the concommitant thin annular beam provide high gain and low loss per unit length; and 4) the permanent magnet focusing structure--where a high energy product, hybrid Alnico magnet produces a magnetic field of 1300 oersteds in the gun region. Additional subtle but critical factors such as tube alignment, cathode coating and base nickel, copper plating of the helix, magnetic field straightening, and low loss rf coupling are also described."
"This paper discusses the development of a 1 kW electrostatically focused CW klystron amplifier for use in C-band microwave communication systems. It describes the electrical and mechanical design and performance characteristics of this tube. The utilization of the electrostatic focusing principle for a communication klystron amplifier results in some extremely attractive features for the designer of light-weight mobile microwave communication systems. The most important advantages are small size and low weight and the absence of any external focusing requirements, eliminating the need for heavy focusing magnets and eliminating stray magnetic fields."
"The tube described in this paper is a fixed-frequency, 4-cavity amplifier which uses electrostatic fields exclusively to focus the electron beam. To this end, annular lens electrodes are arranged between the cavities. These lenses are operated at cathode potential and are therefore electrically connected to the cathode inside the vacuum envelope. Ungridded rf gaps allow excellent beam transmission, high efficiency and a low noise figure. The klystron is of all metal-ceramic construction and is designed to withstand severe shock and vibration. The center frequency of the tube is 2287.5 Mc and its weight is 20 ounces."
"This paper will describe the development of an X-Band TWTA (Traveling Wave Tube Amplifier). The 2.5 watt PPM focussed TWT and its accompanying solid state dc-dc convertor have been developed for use in MACS, a Medium Altitude Satellite Communication System. The significant design parameters with their inter-relationships with the design specifications will be discussed. Experimental results will be presented as curves of power output, gain, noise figure, and phase characteristics. Of particular significance in this program are the requirements for a high MTTFF (50,000 hours) and also a high overall efficiency and therefore of major interest will be the aspects to be discussed, of the design which are expected to provide both the required reliability and of the overall efficiency which will be above 22%. The life test program which will yield the proof of the required reliability will also be described in some detail."
"This paper describes characteristics of a new type of broadband backward-wave oscillator utilizing permanent-magnet electron beam focusing, but permitting attainment of remarkably light weight, complete magnetic shielding, and efficiency values at least as high as those obtainable with more conventional O-type oscillators. The new tubes completely eliminate the most important disadvantages of previous BWO's, such as, variously, the size, weight, complexity, low reliability, low efficiency, or sensitivity to external magnetic fields of solenoid-, PM-, or electrostatically-focused tubes."
"Lumped models of the type proposed by Linvill to represent graded-base transistors are particularly useful because they portray the relationship between terminal behavior and physical processes, and because they are applicable in both small- and large-signal situations. Previous treatments of lumped models for graded base transistors have used an exponential approximation for the impurity distribution in the base, although in fact most present-day high-performance planar transistors have a gaussian distribution. The exponential approximation has previously been employed because it leads to a constant electric field in the base region, and the resulting equations for carrier behavior are easy to solve. In this paper we present a method for obtaining lumped models for the cases in which the impurity profiles are either gaussian or complementary error function. The models are systematically derived from a consideration of the geometrical properties and the dominant physical processes of the device. Charts are presented which enable one to determine the element values and weighting factors for a model of any desired complexity for a transistor of arbitrary base width whose base region is located at an arbitrary depth below the planar surface. A chart is also given for determining the alpha cutoff frequency as a function of base width and depth below the surface."
"This communication describes a photoparametric amplifier based on the current dependency of the depletion layer capacitance of a back biased p-n junction. The charge carriers generated by the photons incident on the diode alter the charge distribution in the vicinity of the depletion layer and cause a change in the capacitance of the junction. This purely reactive effect can be amplified by parametric pumping and leads to a photodetector that combines low output impedance, wide bandwidth and high sensitivity. Experimental results obtained with such a photoparametric amplifier at megacycle modulation frequencies are given. The current dependence of the depletion layer is analyzed and the optimum design of diodes for the amplifier is discussed."
"A recent publication considered important aspects of the low-frequency operation of semiconductor four-terminal field-effect transistors (FTFET's) having electrically distinct gates to which independent bias and signal voltages may be applied. The present paper extends this work by developing a model for the transient as well as the low-frequency performance of a device with symmetrical geometry, operating in the region beyond pinch-off."
"The Metal-Oxide-Silicon-Transistor offers some unique advantages over the conventional bipolar and unipolar junction transistors. Extremely high input impedance, of the order of 1014ohms, and pentode like characteristics make it an attractive circuit component. Simplicity of fabrication and high yields indicate that integrated circuits using MOST's can achieve a degree of complexity presently unattainable with junction transistors. The operation of the MOST is based on the properties of the silicon-silicon dioxide interface and very careful processing is needed to obtain stable surface conditions. The purpose of this paper is to present the data on operational lifetests and stepped-stress test-to-failure experiments on P-channel, enhancement-mode MOST's fabricated with a surface stabilizing process. The failure modes observed in these structures are discussed. These are primarily diode characteristic deterioration. No significant problem with regard to threshold voltage or transconductance stability is observed."
"This paper presents an extension of the thermal runaway theory for second breakdown phenomena in transistors. This extension is based on the effects of free-carrier density and distribution, on the field in the collector space-charge region. The extension is particularly useful in explaining second breakdown phenomena for high speed switching applications (where second breakdown has been observed to occur in less than 100 nanoseconds). Development involves the solution of the Poisson equation (considering free carriers) for the collector space-charge region. A linear distribution of fixed charge is assumed. Three linear distributions of free carriers (in the collector space-charge region) are considered. They are positive slope, zero slope and negative slope. These three distributions may be used either separately or through superposition to approximate actual free carrier distributions. All three distributions are shown to lead to a negative resistance region as free carrier density is significantly increased (free cartier densities greater than a few per cent of the fixed charge density at the space-charge boundary are considered significant)."
"We report studies of thermal breakdown in n-type germanium at fields considerably below those necessary for avalanche breakdown. A sustained negative resistance is observed at points above the threshold for thermal breakdown. The heating causes enhanced electrical conduction along the current channel, producing a constriction of the current, and thus forming a thermal pinch. We feel this is the first significant report of thermal pinching in which an initial current constriction due to self-pinching was not involved. Thermal breakdown exists when the power input per unit length exceeds P = 2πrK (dT/dr) ∼ 2πKT, where P is the power loss per unit length due to heat conduction, K is the thermal conductivity, and T is the ambient temperature. Rectangular parallelpipeds of n-type, 3 ohm-cm Ge, provided with non-injecting contacts were pulsed with essentially rectangular pulses of duration 0.30-0.95 microseconds. The repetition rate was one per second. The samples were cooled to 77°K to reduce residual heating effects. The current pulses were obtained by discharging a coaxial line across the sample. A threshold power of 230 watts/cm was observed and is in close agreement with calculated values. The form of the negative resistance characteristic above threshold agrees within experimental error to theoretical expectations."
"This paper reports on the modes of failure of GaSb tunnel diodes and a model which explains the major experimental observations. When GaSb tunnel diodes are biased at positive voltages well past the valley region, permanent changes in the tunnel diode characteristics occur. In this case both the peak and the valley currents go up with degradation. This is to be contrasted with GaAs tunnel diodes in which the peak current always goes down. When the GaSb tunnel diode is biased at a fixed voltage in the so-called \"injection region,\" the peak and the valley currents increase exponentially with time with a well defined final value for each. The difference between the final and the initial values of the valley is larger than that of the peak. The peak current reaches its final value before the valley current. Under proper experimental circumstances it can be shown that the failure process not only continues after being initially biased in the \"injection region\" but is actually accelerated for a period of time by the removal of bias. The proposed model explains all the above observations and several others. It also explains how and why some reversible as well as irreversible changes are experimentally observed. Observed changes in capacitance with failure are consistent with the proposed model."
"To meet the projected needs of the domestic microwave oven market, Amperex has developed a CW magnetron, the DX 206, operating at 2450 megacycles. This tube has been designed primarily to give the lowest overall system/oven final cost, both in medium and high volume manufacture. To this end self-jigging assemblies are used extensively with ceramic-to-metal seals and heli-arc welds eliminating expensive hand glass and R.F. brazing operations."
"A light weight, extended interaction oscillator capable of producing 10 watts output at 35 to 50 Gc, without magnetic focusing, is being developed. The extended interaction oscillator utilizes a resonated section of fundamental backward wave, coupled cavity delay line. Very large values of Rsh/Q may be obtained with relatively short circuit lengths, which is an advantage of the extended interaction circuit over the conventional resonator. When the electron beam velocity is made slightly greater than the fundamental circuit wave phase velocity, energy is transferred from the slow space-charge wave to the circuit. Because the interaction circuits are short, space-charge focused electron beams have been employed, eliminating the need for focusing magnets."
"This paper presents theoretical and experimental results on the focusing of Brillouin electron beams by use of long-period magnetic fields. This type of focusing was evolved to overcome limitations on continuous and average powers, efficiency, and operating frequency in state-of-the-art microwave tubes employing short-period sinusoidal focusing fields. The theoretical analysis presents the derivation of the optimum field shape for focusing through a single field reversal, and shows that optimum focusing is achieved when the magnetic flux density is peaked immediately before and after the change of polarity. New theoretical results are presented on the use of long-period focusing fields consisting of optimally peaked reversals separated by constant-field regions. The most important of these results is the high degree of stability possessed by such fields and virtual elimination of stop-bands usually produced by periodic systems. The theory presented is in good agreement with numerical solutions obtained by use of a digital computer. Experimental results obtained on long-period magnet assemblies employing three and seven reversals show beam-transmission efficiencies of 98 percent at perveances comparable to those focused by the optimum state-of-the-art short-period magnets."
"This paper discusses a novel device capable of delaying an RF pulse over a wide frequency band with the delay continuously adjustable over a wide limit and with low insertion loss. Fundamentally, the device is a C-band traveling-wave tube with a portion of the helix replaced by a length of drift tunnel. A low perveance cylindrical beam is made to interact with a helix slow-wave structure upon which is impressed a pulsed RF signal. Before entering the drift tunnel, the slow space-charge wave on the beam is transformed into a fast space-charge wave mode. The desired RF delay can be obtained by varying the accelerating potential on the drift region. The fast mode then is transformed back to the slow wave mode. A short helix coupler strips off the transformed slow wave velocity/current information in the usual manner. Data is presented showing the delay as a function of frequency and delay potential as well as insertion loss, noise figure and other operating parameters."
"A broadband, gaseous crystal protector tube has been developed which is ignitorless and consequently requires no external power source. The conventional microwave crystal protector tube requires an external voltage which is applied to an ignitor electrode for the purpose of maintaining an auxiliary gas discharge as a ready source of electrons. As a result, an electron density of sufficient magnitude appears in the gap of the microwave cavity which aids ionization of the gas at low microwave power levels. Lower ionization power in turn results in less energy at the crystal and prevents crystal burnout."
"We have previously reported that a largeE \\times Brotational electron current circles the inside of the anode in the cold cathode Penning discharge and that this current is unstable as a consequence of the diocotron effect. We have observed that by splitting the anode, it is possible to couple effectively to the space charge bunches which result from the instability. The output obtained in this way, consists of short bursts of radiation. The radiation frequency centers around theE \\times Brotation frequency of the electrons, but varies substantially during each burst. We have made use of this random radiation pattern and have developed a high power noise generator. Our present prototypes deliver noise powers in excess of 20 watts at an efficiency of up to 25% in the UHF region of the spectrum. The noise spectrum is voltage tuneable, and the band width, which is electronically rather than circuit limited, is approximately 10%."
"The series resistance of a high-quality varactor diode is primarily determined by the resistance of the semiconductor material close to the junction. With increasing reverse bias, the width of the space-charge region becomes greater, and the series resistance decreases, Theoretical models of graded and step junctions have been assumed, and calculations have been made of the series resistance as a function of bias. Epitaxial silicon diodes have been measured for series resistance as a function of bias by using the transmission loss method at 6 to 12 Gc/sec., with the diode mounted across a reduced-height waveguide. The variation of series resistance with bias agrees well with the theoretical calculations. By measurement of the 3-db bandwidth of the series resonance of the diode mounted in the reduced-height waveguide, the junction capacitance and the effective series inductance of the package also can be determined."
"The parametric amplifier and parametric harmonic generator arts have not advanced into the millimeter wave region. A study of conventional pill and mesa varactors shows that the Q deteriorates rapidly in the millimeter wave region due to the overwhelming effect of skin losses. A new varactor structure containing a planar annulus is disclosed. An order of magnitude improvement of Q is realized from the planar annular varactor, thus making possible the extension of the low noise parametric amplifier art and pump harmonic generator art further into the millimeter wave region. The varactor structure incorporates advances of photolithography which permit the waveguide circuit conductive walls to be brought into close proximity to the diode junction. The planar annulus outside diameter is 12 microns and the inside diameter is 5 microns. The varactor diode and its package parameters and their influence upon transducer design are discussed."
"A single UHF power transistor has been used as a simultaneous amplifier and frequency multiplier to generate substantial microwave power well above the cut-off frequency of the transistor. An RCA 2N3375 silicon N-P-N planar transistor of the \"overlay\" design has yielded output powers of 3.5 watts at 1.0 Gc (28% efficiency), 1.5 watts at 1.5 Gc (20% efficiency), and 0.3 watts at 2.0 Gc (4% efficiency) with an input power of 1 watt at 500 Mc. This device generates the high-frequency power by driving the non-linear capacitance of the base-collector junction with the amplified power at the fundamental frequency. The harmonic output power is greater than that obtained with a class-C multiplier by virtue of varactor action. The measured equivalent output circuit of the transistor contains a small constant resistance in series with a variable capacitance which is inversely proportional to the square-root of the collector-base voltage. The results of an analysis using the equivalent circuit in conjunction with the multiplication mechanism agree well with measurements. Discussion will be given of the bandwidth and frequency limitations of this device."
"This paper describes the results of a program to develop broad band ferromagnetic resonance limiters for duplexer applications. The major advantage of the subsidiary resonance limiter is the broad frequency bandwidth that can be achieved. The major disadvantage is the relatively high limiting threshold power level and low dynamic range. Methods of reducing the limiting threshold power to practical values of less than 1 watt peak and of increasing the dynamic range are described. The theory of subsidiary limiting is considered, and an analysis is made to determine feasible operational characteristics of the limiter, using the results of new material development programs. Experimental data on state-of-the-art devices are presented. Dynamic ranges greater than 50 db and bandwidths in excess of 12% have been achieved at X-band frequencies. The minimum threshold limiting power is less than 1 watt peak; the insertion loss of the device is less than 0.8 over the frequency range."
"This paper describes a solid state power source which employs a single 2N3375 transistor in the dual function of oscillator and variable-capacitance frequency-quadrupler. The transistor oscillates at 420 Mc and also serves as the variable capacitance to multiply the frequency to 1680 Mc. Power outputs of 350 milliwatts at a frequency of 1680 Mc are obtained from this signal source at an overall efficiency of 10%. The resonant circuits are fabricated from strip-line resulting in a light weight, very compact unit. The signal source may be readily frequency modulated. Data on the variation of the transistor collector base capacitance with voltage and current is presented. The use of this data in the design of oscillator-triplers and oscillator-quadruplers is described. The electrical and environmental characteristics of the signal source are presented."
"A simple silicon p-n junction cantilever stress transducer is described. The device uses the anisotropic stress effect in p-n junctions. Previous designs use stylii or other additional members for applying force to small areas to achieve the necessary high stress concentration. The cantilever stress transducer achieves this by the proper geometry without additional members. The force concentration is achieved by a sharp notch immediately below the p-n junction. The cantilever is fixed on one side and the force applied to the other end. Bending occurs only in the thin area above the notch, thus creating the high stress. Sensitivity to bending is achieved only when mechanical damage is produced at the surface of the shallow junction in a controlled fashion. Diode reverse current of the p-n junction is increased by bending in one direction and decreased by bending in the other. The relationship between bending force and current change is linear up to 1,600 dyne-cm in either bending direction. The device responds to moments as low as a few millidyne-cm. No initial stress of the device is required. Results of the doping level (resistivity) on the sensitivity of the device are given. The device can be fabricated in various geometries and thus adjusted to different displacement values as well as sensitivities. A device of approximately 60 db signal-to-noise ratio has been constructed. Different applications for the device are discussed. Maximum sensitivity to date using this device configuration is 0.16 µa/dyne-cm-V."
"An anti-interference device using magnetic resonance has been studied both theoretically and experimentally. This device is basically a frequency selective limiter; that is, it can independently limit input spectral components without causing significant cross-modulation. Frequency selective limiting is also observed in the ferrite limiter, but occurs only if spectral components are spaced by at least a few megacycles. A much higher degree of selectivity has been obtained at these laboratories in a limiter using proton magnetic resonance. An experimental model operating at 30 Mc has provided independent limiting of two signals separated by as little as 5 cps. Such a high degree of selectivity makes possible the suppression of many types of interference which appear within a communication channel without degrading signal intelligence. Principles of operation will be discussed and experimental results will be presented."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"The energy partition between reflected and refracted plane ultrasonic waves at water-solid and solid-water boundaries is considered. Some general features are discussed and applications of the results to velocity measurements are pointed out. Results of calculations for a Plexiglas-water boundary show that the curves one obtains are quite dissimilar if one either considers or neglects the shear wave in the Plexiglas."
"A brief note on the history of high-frequency machinery is presented, followed by a general discussion of some of the salient characteristics and present-day capabilities of highfrequency rotating machinery. Specific reference is made to a 1.5-kw, 21.4-kc motor generator set. Discussion includes comments on the physical and electrical characteristics of the machine performance curves of output voltage regulation and efficiency are presented. Over-all motor generator efficiencies of 55% have been achieved at a 21.4-kc output frequency. Finally, some of the considerations r matching of the motor-generator to the transducer load are discussed."
"The above-named paper [ibid., vol. UE-8, pp. 6-13, March, 1961] recently came to the attention of the author who made an error analysis of a similar proposed distance measurement scheme during the latter portion of 1958. The purpose of this communication is to call attention to an apparent misstatement in Wachspress and to present some supplementary information on this subject."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The Cumulative Index to the IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonic Engineering (1954 - 1963) includes a separate Author Index and Subject Index."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Cadmium-sulphide diffusion-layer transducers have been made in a variety of structures, with fundamental frequencies from below 100 Mc to above 1000 Mc for longitudinal mode, and to 300 Mc for shear-mode operation. Conversion losses from 7 db to 28 db with 15% bandwidth were obtained over this frequency range. A new transducer structure using evaporated thin films of cadmium sulphide has been investigated. These evaporated layer transducers have shown conversion losses of only 17 db at 1000 Mc with 20% bandwidth for longitudinal mode operation."
"The effects of various kinds of interactions on the propagation of 9 GC microwave phonons in germanium have been studied experimentally. We will discuss phonon interactions 1) with conduction electrons in degenerate n - Ge, which produces attenuation of waves of specific polarization in particular directions of propagation, 2) with thermal phonons, which gives temperaturedependent ultrasonic attenuation, 3) with microwave phonons, which gives nonlinear effects."
"Two methods are described for measuring ultrasonic wave velocities and attenuations in plastics at very high ultrasonic frequencies. The first is a variation of the \"water immersion\" method, and involves measuring the differential loss and phase shift resulting from removal of the specimen from the ultrasonic beam. Longitudinal wave data can be obtained to about 100 MC. For the second method, which is applicable to both shear and longitudinal waves, the specimen is cemented or thermally bonded between two solid rods of quartz, andt he desired quantitieasr e obtained from measurement of wave amplitudes as a function of frequency. Measurements for mechanical Q and velocity of propagation are presented for polystyrene, linear polyethylene, and a polystyrene fluid used as a coupling medium. It is demonstrated that results for longitudinal waves at frequencieass high as 1000 Mc an be obtained."
"The characteristics of a proposed yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) delay line with adjustable delay time are presented. Operation would be at GC frequencieasn d at room temperature with delay time controlled by an external magnetic field. The frequency-delay-magnetic field characteristics are discussed. Under ideal conditions, it may be possible to achieve tfhoell owing characteristics, although not simultaneously: 1) conversion loss approximately equal to 0.1 db/conversion, 2) insertion loss approximately equal to 5-10 db/μsec at 3 GC, 3) maximum delay time approximately equal to 10 μsec, 4) magnetic control of delay time over a 5:l range, and 5) fractional bandwidth of 10%."
"Several optical methods have been proposed recently for the investigation of ultrasonic waveforms, primarily those waveforms produced by finite-amplitude distortion. A review is made of three of these methods which are developed sufficiently to provide detailed information of the harmonic content of the waves. Emphasis is placed on the one method which gives the most direct determination of the shape of the waves."
"When the balance mechanism of the human ear is disturbed the patient suffers from attacks of vertigo and, as in the case of an affliction called Meniere's disease, from a progressive loss of hearing. Several years ago it was discovered that ultrasound could beu sed for the effective treatment of this disease. An improved ultrasound generator for this purpose has been developed at the Commonwealth Acoustic Laboratories in Australia. This work gives design details for the applicator and the electronic circuitry. The equipment is completely transistorized and the applicator does not require a cooling system."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents abstracts of papers from the 1963 Ultrasonics Symposium (December 4-6, Washington, DC, USA)."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Although most research and theory building on human operator performance has considered the operator to be a continuous single-channel controller, straightforward examination of real situations and real behavior shows him to be a sampleddata, commutated single-channel controller. This arises from the fact that the human operator must distribute his attention sequentially over many information sources. Both monitoring and controlling behavior are subject to the constraint that the operator's eyes can fixate on only one place at a time."
"The human operator in a manual tracking task is kmown to change his control characteristics to adapt to particular controlled element dynamics, input characteristics and task requirements. This report describes an experimental investigation of human adaptive control following sudden changes in gain or polarity of the controlled element in a closed-loop tracking task. The experiments used primarily simple position control to determine lower bounds on the adaptation process. Random inputs were tracked under pursuit and compensatory single-axis displays."
"This study compares the relative effectiveness of a conventional display of object location with the effectiveness of various probabilistic displays of object location. Several display possibilities for presenting probabilistic information to a system operator are discussed, and an experiment is performed to test the potential usefulness of selected probabilistic display types in improving operator performance. Performance evaluation metrics include the degree of accuracy achieved by the operator in estimating probabilities of events and the expected value of his decisions within a simulated search-attack mission. The effectiveness of operators using a nonprobabilistic (conventional) display also is tested by these same metrics. In general, probabilistic information processing appears to offer an improved alternative to nonprobabilistic information processing. With premission training and definitively presented probability information, probabilistic displays can be interpreted accurately by the operator and employed effectively by him within a system."
"The theory of optimum filtering and prediction is applied to man-machine tracking control systems to improve performance in tracking waveforms which have a somewhat random appearance. The predicted values of the input for a set of prediction times are displayed in perspective for interpretation by the human operator. This display is evaluated in an experimental tracking task."
"This study presents the results of a preliminary examination of the nonlinear characteristics of a closed-loop manual control system operated in the compensatory tracking mode. particular consideration is given to 1) nonlinearities of the closed-loop system resulting from inherent nonlinearities within the human operator and 2) the adaptive capabilities of the human operator in compensating for nonlinearities arising in the controlled process. Results indicate that low-order nonlinearities do not account for a substantial portion of the remnant and that a human operator is able to partially compensate for simple nonlinear controlled processes."
"A technique is discussed for achieving a versatile, controllable visual simulation of a road or flight path which appears in realistic three-dimensional perspective and motion in response to an electronic analog of vehicle trajectory and attitude. In comparison to other available schemes for achieving artificial display of ``highways in the sky,'' the major advantage of the present scheme is relative simplicity and versatility. It therefore suggests promise for use in investigating driver behavior and precognitive tracking."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"In order that human factors scientists may be aware of books of interest to them among the ever-increasing number being published, reviews of several current titles will be included in each issue of this TRANSACTIONS. Comments and suggestions for this department are welcome, and contributed book reviews and recommendations of books for review (please include name, author, and publisher, if possible) are solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper discusses the general considerations which affect the design of a radar used to provide dependable warnings to avoid collisions. A CW Doppler radar, which incorporates a scheme of RF phase comparison to distinguish opening from closing targets, has been road tested and observations are presented. A proposed system is also described. It utilizes the reflected radar signal from another automobile to control the forward motion of the vehicle upon which it is installed."
"The factors which enter into the selection of a transistor ignition switch are considered. Along with this, the benefits to be gained from transistor switching are reviewed. Among other things, frequent adjustment is rendered unnecessary and the output voltage of the coil does not fall off at high engine speed."
"Invention of the transistor in 1948 started a tremendous research and development program which is affecting the lives of all of us now and will continue to do so for many years to come."
"Novel electro-magnetic geometry, as well as electronic balancing arrangements permit reliable signaling of even cold reduced, annealed welds under conditions where irrelevant signals due to sample motion could otherwise bury signals of interest."
"Several techniques generally referred to as Critical Path Planning systems have been developed in recent years which aid project managers in the planning and control of projects. These techniques assume linear time-cost functions for each task in the project and make use of the arrow diagram to define relationships between tasks."
"The paper describes how a research facility in a large company assists the manufacturing effort. Electronics, optics, and precision mechanics are all used by the research group to solve the difficult problems encountered by manufacturing."
"The new optical meter-relay is not only one of the simplest devices now available for automatic control functions, but like all meter-relays, it has the further advantages of reliability and easy adjustment of set points. It also has continuous signal indication, whether or not a set point has been passed. From a design standpoint, the new device is noteworthy because it is built around a combination, used for the first time in controlling instruments, of fiber optics, a reflecting disc, and solid-state circuitry. Inherently fail-safe, it is a complete departure from previous designs."
"The various uses of semiconductor devices in automobiles, radios, alternators, ignition systems, and miscellaneous applications are examined in terms of past and present dollar volume. These performances are totaled and extrapolated into the future. The total growth curve shows a very steep rise for the next five years."
"The instrumentation for recording critical accelerations and loads at pertinent points on a vechicle and its dummy occupants during controlled collision is described. Instrumentation requirements upon which instrumentation selection was made are discussed. The method of data reduction, including the use of computer and automatic plotting equipment, is also discussed."
"The selection of the program memory medium, the encoding problems, and use of program information will be discussed. Emphasis is on a frequency multiplexed FM system. A stable subcarrier oscillator which can be remotely tuned with simple passive elements, a unique circuit of signal use,and closed-loop error detection will be discussed."
"Electronic devices have been used both for the measurement and laboratory simulation of mechanical and atmospheric phenomena which produce damage in packaged merchandise. These uses include: sensors to monitor velocity, acceleration and strain in the packaged part; analog computer to simulate the complete package system; and analysis of package atmosphere with the aid of humidity sensors, gas chromatography and odor detectors."
"A generalized analysis of the two basic (balance and spring) weighing systems is presented. Use of electronics for various advantages such as increased speed and sensitivity is described."
"Many process control applications will require the determination of optimum process position subject to input or manipulated variable bounds and output or controlled variable constraints. A technique based on linear programing (LP)has been found useful for this problem. By reducing storage requirements and running time to a minimum and by incorporating such features as move penalties, target constraints and dead zones, this LP approach can be a powerful and effective optimization method."
"The illustrated parts catalog issue-revision system is a group of computer(IBM 7090) programs that can be used to generate a new parts catalog or revise an old one. The basic functions of the system are to process all input data, to merge input data with a history tape of the previous level catalog in case of a revision, and to paginate the catalog. Pagination procedure includes placement of illustration pages and titles in proper relation to their associated lists; formation of revision pages to accommodate overflow data; placement of list captions; deletion of obsolete lists and associated illustrations; placement of running heads and feet, including full sheet deletion notices and revision date; and the assignment of page numbers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The run measure of a switching function has arisen in several contexts as an indication of the complexity, or cost, of a realization of the function. The run measure of a function can be defined in terms of its conventional truth-table representation. The output column of the truth table is an ordered sequence of zeros and ones that are disposed in runs; i.e., groups of like digits, of various lengths. The run measure of the function is simply the number of runs in this output sequence."
"The run measure of a switching function has arisen in several contexts as an indication of the complexity, or cost, of a realization of the function. The run measure of a function can be defined in terms of its conventional truth-table representation. The output column of the truth table is an ordered sequence of zeros and ones that are disposed in runs; i.e., groups of like digits, of various lengths. The run measure of the function is simply the number of runs in this output sequence. It is often convenient to consider two functions to be equivalent if one can be obtained from the other by some permutation or complementation of the input variables. In this context, the cost of a function can be taken as the minimum value of the run measure over the equivalence class that contains the function. This paper derives a firm upper bound on the run measure for arbitrary n-variable switching functions when arbitrary permutations and complementations of the input variables are permitted. It is also shown that this bound is attained only in the case of the parity functions and that, hence in this sense, all other functions are less complex."
"This paper presents methods for realizing simple threshold functions of n arguments by networks of k-input majority gates, where k≪n. An optimal network realization of the 5-argument majority function using 3-input majority gates is given, and it is then generalized by steps with realizations for the (2n-l)-argument majority function (where n = 3, 4, ...) using (2n-3)-input majority gates, and then for the (2n-1)-argument majority function using (2k-l)-input majority gates (where k≪n). In a final generalization an array network using (2k-l)-input majority gates introduced for the realization of an (m/n), ``simple,'' threshold function (where m = 1, 2, ...,n). The array network is then applied to the synthesis of arbitrary symmetric functions; in the latter synthesis a realization of ``adjustable logic'' is given where, by simple control of network connections, the same network can be made to compute any symmetric function. The specific networks for ``5 by 3's'' (5-argument majority function realized by a 3-input majority gate), ``7 by 5's'', and ``7 by 3's'' are the best known."
"It is suggested that the economics of present large-scale scientific computers could benefit from a greater investment in hardware to mechanize multiplication and division than is now common. As a move in this direction, a design is developed for a multiplier which generates the product of two numbers using purely combinational logic, i.e., in one gating step. Using straightforward diode-transistor logic, it appears presently possible to obtain products in under 1, μsec, and quotients in 3 μsec. A rapid square-root process is also outlined. Approximate component counts are given for the proposed design, and it is found that the cost of the unit would be about 10 per cent of the cost of a modern large-scale computer."
"A complete set of tunnel-diode logic circuits has been developed. The average delay per logic level is 0.5 nsec (0.5×10-9 sec). The average dc power dissipation per gate is 100 mw (other gate properties are given in Table I). In order to achieve this Performance, the following new techniques were employed: 1) nonlinear biasing using the tunnel resistor, a new tunneling device; 2) trimming, a technique of current bias adjustment to offset initial tolerances; 3) transmission-line terminating without sacrificing signal amplitude. Using these circuits, a 40-gate model was constructed which is capable of shifting and counting at a rate of 300 Mc. This model has been in operation for approximately 2000 hours with very good reliability."
"A new semipermanent data-storage technique is described which can be used either as a fast multimegabit correlator or as a high-speed digital memory. It consists of an array of long, thin cylindrical solenoids and printed-circuit data planes perpendicular to these solenoids and magnetically coupled to them. Data is stored on the planes in terms of circuit paths which either enclose (1) or bypass (0) each solenoid. Data entry is achieved automatically by passing the planes through a gang punch which severs the unwanted parts of the circuit path. Planes may be easily removed individually or together in stacks. No sense or drive elements are interleaved with the data planes, so that the stack is an integral unit. Depending upon the application, either the solenoids or the planes are driven. As a correlator, the solenoids are driven in proportion to the cell strength of the input pattern, and an analog output appears simultaneously on each of the N data planes, where N is the number of stored signals or patterns ranging as high as 2000. Correlation time is less than 3 μsec in the current model, whose planes contain 1428 bits each. As a digital memory, the aforementioned solenoid-drive, plane-output configuration may be used, or the planes may be driven and data outputs taken from the solenoids. The memory is random access and address organized, with a cycle time of about 1 μsec, depending on memory size."
"An electron recording system for a high density read-only photographic memory has been developed. The information has been recorded at speeds up to 106 bits/sec with a stotage density of 106 bits/cm2. After processing, the information can be read back optically at 106 bits/sec. The high recording speed given by the electron beam technique makes it possible to extend the use of photographic memories to systems requiring frequent updating or systems with capacities of more than 108 bits."
"This paper describes a method for solving, on a standard analog computer, problems with wide dynamic ranges. Specifically treated is the restricted three-body problem, numerous examples of which are presented, as well as comparisons to digital results. Some attendant problems are discussed. Limited dynamic range, capacitor dielectric absorption, and electronic multiplier limitations are described in some detail. Automatic scale-changing techniques are detailed, which produce the high accuracy shown, as well as providing near-optimum scaling at all times."
"The complete set of orthogonal functions of binary variables called Walsh functions can be obtained as direct products of the subclass of these functions known as Rademacher functions. The complete set of Walsh functions can be conveniently represented by a square matrix of l's and -1's, which, when normalized, is an orthogonal matrix. The correct Rademacher functions to multiply together to obtain a specified Walsh function can be determined without the use of recursion formulas by reference to a simple modification of the reflected binary code. A binary equivalent of the Walsh matrix, consisting of 0's and 1's, can be generated directly by multiplying together, modulo 2, two simpler matrices easily obtained from the reflected binary code and natural binary code, respectively. A modified Walsh matrix that has a simple recursive structure can be obtained by rearranging the rows of the fundamental Walsh matrix. A binary equlivalent of thle former can also be generated directly by multiplying together, modulo 2, two simpler matrices easily obtained from the natural binary code alone. A transformation matrix for direct conversion of the Walsh matrix from its fundamental to modified (or modified to fundamental) form can be written by observing how the rows of the natural binary code are rearranged to form the modified reflected binary code."
"This report describes a new digital differential analyzer (DDA) technique for computing equations of the form f(x)=c/x (c=constant), which was developed to solve a problem posed by the Systems Laboratory. The major advantages of this new method over conventional DDA methods are: a much smaller truncation error because only one integration is performed, and reduced size of the equipment, since it requires only one Y register and one time-shared adder."
"This report describes a new digital differential analyzer (DDA) technique for computing equations of the form f(x) = c/x (c = constant), which was developed to solve a problem posed by the Systems Laboratory. The major advantages of this new method over conventional DDA methods are: a much smaller truncation error because only one integration is performed, and reduced size of the equipment, since it requires only one Y register and one time-shared adder. A digital differential analyzer (DDA) is commonly used to solve for particular solutions of a differential equation. When a DDA is used to compute algebraic equations, the same techniques are involved in the instrumentation, that is, the dependent variable f(x) is developed from some initial conditions. This procedure consists of two operations: 1) integrating the derivative of f(x), and 2) generating the derivative to be integrated."
"Mutual inductance is used to reduce the effect of inductance and thus increase speed. If wires are close together when current is switched from one to another, there is very little change in magnetic field, and consequently, very little energy is necessary to do the switching. Therefore, the effective inductance is small. The required close coupling is obtained by depositing one wire of the pair over the other instead of side by side, as is usually done. This permits improvements in electrical time constant, (irreversible) thermal repetition rate limit, and reliability. There are cryotron configurations suitable for use with inductively coupled lines."
"Mutual inductance is used to reduce the effect of inductance and thus increase speed. If wires are close together when current is switched from one to another, there is very little change in magnetic field, and consequently, very little energy is necessary to do the switching. Therefore, the effective inductance is small. The required close coupling is obtained by depositing one wire of the pair over the other instead of side by side, as is usually done. This permits improvements in electrical time constant, (irreversible) thermal repetition rate limit, and reliability. There are cryotron configurations suitable for use with inductively coupled lines."
"This paper describes the application of the solenoid array principle to the problem of word recognition, code recognition, and (in a limited sense), associative memory. The proposed device, based entirely on existing experience with a large character recognition cross correlator, is capable of recognizing one of 24,000 individual English words up to 16 letters long. The simultaneous correlation and selection is made in less than 3 μsec, and cycle time of the device is less than 20 μsec. The selection can be made either on a perfect-match or a best-match basis. The parameters of the system proposed are taken as typical practical ones and direct expansion of the correlator to a capacity in excess of 100,000 words is fully feasible."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1964."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In a synchronous circuit an operation is complete when a given number of clock times have elapsed since it was begun. In an asynchronous network no such indication is available, and we must either rely on the network to inform us of completion, or wait for the worst-case delay. The second method is undesirable because normally the network will complete its operation long before the worst-case delay time has elasped. It will be shown here that, for a large class of iterative circuits, the network can be designed to inform us of completion. Moreover, this can be done without recourse to monitoring all lateral states (to see when none are changing)."
"In a synchronous circuit an operation is complete when a given number of clock times have elapsed since it was begun. In an asynchronous network no such indication is available, and we must either rely on the network to inform us of completion, or wait for the worst-case delay. The second method is undesirable because normally the network will complete its operation long before the worst-case delay time has elasped. It will be shown here that, for a large class of iterative circuits, the network can be designed to inform us of completion. Moreover, this can be done without recourse to monitoring all lateral states (to see when none are changing)."
"In connection with the problem of two-level minimization of Boolean functions, we have obtained in a combinatorial way the formulas which give the following quantities of statistical interest: average numbers of k cubes, prime k cubes and essential k cubes of a Boolean function. The parameters which appear in our formulas are: number of variables, number of ``one'' vertices and number of ``don't care'' vertices."
"Residue arithmetic has the interesting characteristic that in multiplication, addition and subtraction any digit in the result is dependent only on its two corresponding operand digits. Consequently, for these operations, residue arithmetic is inherently faster than the conventional weighted arithmetics. A system design approach for exploiting the desirable characteristics of both residue and conventional number theory in digital computers is the principal topic of this paper. Criteria for selecting the moduli, and general techniques for implementing the residue arithmetic operations by simple modifications of conventional circuitry are described. A specific system with a conventional word length of 25 bits and a residue system with moduli 128, 127, 63 and 31 are treated in detail, showing that in comparison to the conventional mode of computation, residue arithmetic addition and subtraction are 3 times faster and multiplication is 12 times faster. As an example of the usefulness of the approach, the problem of solving systems of simultaneous linear equations is considered. It is shown that in obtaining solutions by residue arithmetic, the residue mode computation time approaches one sixth that required in the conventional mode as the equation systems become more complex."
"One component of a computer for direct execution of an algebraic language is a circuit which translates algebraic statements into control signals to activate appropriate data access, storage and arithmetic cycles. The state diagram for a simplified version of such a circuit is given and explained. A modification of the Mealy sequential circuit model is utilized to develop a circuit design technique which is simple to use even for circuits with large numbers of states. This technique is demonstrated by design of the algebraic translator circuit, which has 11 states, 5 inputs and 15 outputs."
"A flexible and economical form of prewired semi-permanent storage with a capacity of 4096 words of 40 bits is described. A cycle time of 1 μsec can be readily achieved. The information is prepared by threading wires onto plates which are then placed over an array of ferrite rods. The sense in which a wire passes around the rod determines whether a current pulse in the wire will induce a positive or negative voltage in an output winding wound around the rod. Eight plates, each with 512 words, can be used. The plates can be removed from the store, allowing the information held in the store to be changed quickly and easily. The application of this form of storage to the design of sequential switching circuits is briefly discussed."
"A technique is described for achieving very high bit packing densities, with low error rates, on magnetic tape. This technique uses envelope orthogonal signals to encode binary data during the recording process, and matched filters are used to recover these signals during playback. The experimental system constructed to evaluate the technique is described and a discussion of the experimental results is presented."
"This paper describes the development of a procedure that enables a digital computer to solve ``apictorial'' jigsaw puzzles, i.e., puzzles in which all pieces are uniformly gray and the only available information is the shape of the pieces. The problem was selected because it provided an excellent vehicle to develop computer techniques for manipulation of arbitrary geometric patterns, for pattern identification, and for game solving. The kinds of puzzles and their properties are discussed in detail. Methods are described for characterizing and classifying piece contours, for selecting and ordering pieces that are ``most likely'' to mate with a given piece, for determining likelihood of fit, for overcoming ambiguities, and for evaluation of the progressive puzzle assembly. An illustration of an actual computer solution of a puzzle is given."
"This is a continuation of the work reported earlier by Wadhwa. The simulation of five types of third-order linear systems with only one operational amplifier and a network consisting entirely of resistors and capacitors is discussed here. Some of the salient advantages, disadvantages and limitations of this technique of simulation are briefly mentioned. The network design equations and conditions of physical realizability are listed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1964."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"One of the most important and complicated problems in the synthesis of a sequential machine described by a state diagram or table is the assignment of the states of the secondary variables to the states of the machine. The secondary assignment for a given machine varies in accordance with the requirements of the design."
"One of the most important and complicated problems in the synthesis of a sequential machine described by a state diagram or table is the assignment of the states of the secondary variables to the states of the machine. The secondary assignment for a given machine varies in accordance with the requirements of the design. It has already been shown that the partition with the substitution property and the partition pairs are of great significance in the secondary assignment. However, only few machines possess these properties, and hence, a more general method is needed. This paper presents a method of obtaining for any given machine M an equivalent machine M' which has a partition with the substitution property or partition pairs and therefore can be decomposed into two or more submachines connected in cascade or possibly in parallel. It is also shown that for machine M' we can find an assignment with self-dependent subsets. The method is shown to be general for any completely or incompletely specified sequential machine."
"The organization and reliability of large redundant nets of formal neurons are investigated. Each neuron has m inputs and n outputs and is capable of performing at any one time any member of any prescribed subset of the total possible set of 22m·n functions. Various methods for obtaining large nets of predictable structure and function through the medium of element reproduction are discussed. In the principal reproduction scheme considered, called ``complete iteration,'' each element ``grows'' a copy of the net of which it is a part and each new element does likewise, ad infinitum. The output or net function is studied as the number of ``iterations'' or ``reproductions'' increases. The concept of net convergence (or oscillation) which is equivalent to the condition achieved by the net when its set of net functions becomes stable (or oscillatory) is precisely defined. Theorems are proved which predict this behavior for various nets of general interest. A polynomial system is associated with each net which completely describes its probabilistic behavior. This system produces the Moore-Shannon h(p) function in the special case where the net stabilizes (converges) on only two functions. Conditions are given under which a net may be made arbitrarily reliable even though its constituent elements are arbitrarily unreliable."
"In this paper the group-theoretical concept of ``confluence sets'' is introduced as a valuable tool in the analysis of linear sequential circuits (LSC's). Using this concept, a scheme is formulated for producing state graphs of autonomous LSC's which, in the ``singular'' case, is superior to currently known schemes. Singular LSC's, which are of potential interest in error correction systems, are studied in detail. Properties of their state graphs are derived, culminating in a unique characterization of such graphs in terms of representative ``cycles'' and ``trees.'' Together with known results on nonsingular circuits, the results in this paper offer a description of the autonomous behavior of the general linear sequential circuit."
"A standard method for testing and realizing a threshold function is to solve a set of linear inequalities in which the unknowns are the n weights to be assigned to the n variables. In this paper a simple method of solving this set of inequalities is presented. Instead of using the weights themselves as the unknowns, a set of n new unknowns, the incremental weights Δa1, Δa2, . . ., Δan-1, together with the lowest weight an, is used. This change of unknowns results in a simpler set of inequalities which, in turn, furnishes direct information on 1-realizability1 of the function and on the assignment of weights for realization, often without the necessity for trial and adjustment."
"During the past few years there has been a considerable amount of literature concerned with the realization of threshold logic. However, there are a number of questions concerning such factors as sensitivity and component savings which cannot be completely answered by such theoretical studies. DONUT (Digitally Operated Network Using Thresholds) is a small general purpose digital computer which was designed and constructed to evaluate the feasibility of using threshold gates as the basic logical element. Exclusive of memory the computer consists of about 500 threshold gates. The design was carried out for five different values of component tolerances and the tightest tolerance version was constructed. Component savings for the constructed machine are about a factor of four compared with the loosest tolerance NOR gate realization. Experiments were made to verify that the power supply and logical voltages were within tolerances in the system environment."
"A brief description of the logical structure and the instruction repertoire of a short word length (16 bits) computer is given. The unorthodox features which are discussed are 1) a variable-length addressing procedure, 2) a common multi-accumulator and index register structure, and 3) the identical processing of data and addresses."
"A device is described that converts voltages to digital form by means of a strategy basically faster than that used in the conventional trial encoder. A voltage corresponding to the contents of a 2n-bit register is obtained from the output of the digital-voltage decoder. The error between this voltage and the input voltage is quantized to the nearest power of two and subtracted from the contents of the register. Each time this process is repeated, the error is diminished. In all, n repetitions of the process are required to complete the encoding. An encoder operating according to this strategy has been built and makes a complete 8-bit conversion in 4, μsec."
"Commercially available magnetic tape units have longitudinal recording densities of up to 2000 bits per inch, whereas analog instrumentation recorders are capable of recording up to 10,000 cycles per inch. These figures contrast with a theoretical recording density limitation for iron oxide of 250,000 bits per inch, and the reasons for this discrepancy are analyzed. Two experimental systems having recording densities of 5000 and 10,000 bits per inch using analog recording techniques are described, Conclusions drawn from these experiments indicate that a density of 20,000 bits per inch should be possible using commercially available analog tape recording machines. Experimental machines indicate the practicability of densities on the order of 100,000 to 200,000 bits per inch, depending on the method of recording used."
"This device is a single-bit storage element consisting of a 100-mil piece of 25-mil glass tubing with a 6000-A nickel-iron film coating. This paper describes those properties of the device which pertain to its operation in high-speed linear-word-selection memories. The device is used in the orthogonal mode, with an axial word field. The circumferential bit (digit) field coincides with the easy axis of magnetization, which is induced by a dc field during deposition of the film. The closed magnetic path avoids the limitation on thickness which exists in open-path elements. Thus, the cylindrical device can be designed to have large signals over a wide range of cycle times. Experimental data are included on the following characteristics: optimum device and drive-conductor geometry, effect on signals of one-zero duty cycle, sensitivity of stored information to disturbance by bit field and stray word fields, and drive-current requirements. The test specification developed from these data includes allowances for drive current tolerances, device temperature coefficient and information duty cycle. Sufficient quantities have been tested to this specification to show that this device is a workable, reproducible memory element."
"This paper describes a memory system wherein bits of information are stored serially in time on electrical delay lines, The simplicity and speed of the basic storage cell makes large high-speed stores of this sort feasible. The paper stresses the basic principles of operation. A brief description of one such system model built to demonstrate these principles is included."
"An mmf drive NI is applied to the major leg of asaturable ferrite core whose three legs are initially at negative saturation. The resulting Δø in the driven leg divides into the other two (minor) legs, one of which is loaded by a resistive load. This division of flux is analyzed, using for each leg the parabolic inelastic switching model ø = øpeak (F) [1-(ø/øsat)2], which is valid only if mf F is high enough to switch ø to positive saturation. Calculated plots of flux-division ratio D vs NI for various load values are in quite good agreement with experimental data, except in the region of low NI, where the parabolic mdel is invalid for the longer miner leg."
"A simple experiment on a magnetically-balanced circuit, consisting of a flux source and two equal-length parallel paths is outlined. It is observed that if a controlling signal causes one of the parallel paths to be preferred and this controlling signal is removed before switching is completed, the parallel path originally preferred continues to be preferred. The core equivalent of a balanced circuit is then examined to determine if this phenomenon is present there as well. It is found that the basic behavior of a balanced circuit and its core equivalent can be made the same, provided care is taken in setting up the same initial conditions in both circuits. It is shown that initial flux levels are important, as well as the rate at which these initial levels are established. An attempt is then made to relate, in a qualitative way, the circuit properties observed to known properties of a single core. It is observed that the properties which will be exploited here are present in most standard materials; however, a balanced circuit tends to exaggerate these properties. In Section II experiments on two balanced circuits interconnected with a 1:1 turns ratio coupling winding are described. This configuration has been found to have two stable states, the final state being dependent on the initial condition in one of the elements. Signal amplification has been achieved over at least a 4:1 range of drive currents. These results are readily explainable by reference to the element characteristics described in the first section."
"A capacitor-storage boxcar (i.e., zero-order hold) circuit is described, which has a one-half μsec sampling time and a 0-to 6-volt dynamic range, with less than 10-mv absolute error for a hold time of one second or less. No operational amplifier is used. In the new boxcar, feedback is applied via a difference amplifier comparator during sampling to make the readout voltage, not the voltage actually across the capacitor, equal to the input voltage. This effectively cancels any long-term voltage errors across either sampling switch or readout isolation amplifier. Eliminated are both offset voltage errors due to circuit assembly tolerances and also long-term offset drifts occurring over more than one storage interval, e.g., as due to temperature changes. The actual circuit given is all solid state, has no inductive or critical elements and has been easily reproduced several times. This comparator boxcar concept is not limited to capacitor storage."
"The inverse pair of logarithmic and exponential functions obtained from current voltage characteristics of junction transistors have been combined here to devise a direct method of analog multiplication and division which has an inherent tendency of self-compensation for the effects of temperature variation and also of mutual cancellation of nonlinear distortion arising in the individual stages. Experimental curves for both the operations show an accuracy of 2 per cent over a range of one and one-half decades in multiplication and about two decades in division. It has further been shown how this system may be used with comparative advantages to realize ac power and root law amplifiers, volume compressors and volume expandors of compandor systems, linear amplitude modulators and amplitude stabilizers. The experimental observations of ac nonlinear amplifiers designed to follow square and square root law response functions show that the respective characteristics hold good within an accuracy of 2 per cent over a range of 50 db. The use of these inverse relationships as a conventional 2 to 1 compressor followed by an expandor yields over-all compandor characteristics having a linearity over a range of 55 db with a maximum deviation of about 0.6 db from a straight line appearing only at the extreme end of the dynamic range. The analog multiplication has further been used to produce a linear amplitude modulation of about 95 per cent."
"This paper deals with a method of realizing switching functions with three-input majority gates, utilizing a modification of the theory of Akers [1]. This approach attempts to minimize the total number of elements used for both gating and delay. The method derived is suitable for implementation on a digital computer and a program was written for the Burroughs 220 computer which produces excellent results for switching functions of 6 variables or less. Results of sample programs are given and limitations of the method are discussed."
"This paper deals with the problem of generating a combinatorial network of threshold gates capable of evaluating a partially specified Boolean function. With the additional restriction that the network is to be cycle-free, the procedure described is designed to generate a network of minimum complexity in the sense that it is comprised of the smallest possible number of threshold elements. The essential result is a demonstration of the fact that the question of whether or not parameters exist such that a network of given complexity is capable of evaluating a given Boolean function is equivalent to the feasibility question for an associated integer program. In the case of feasibility the solution to the integer program contains the design of a minimum network realizing the given function."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1964."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The syntactic rules for many programming languages have been expressed by formal grammars, generally variants of phrase-structure grammars. The syntactic analysis essential to translation of programming languages can be done entirely mechanically for such languages. Major problems remain in rendering analyzers efficient in use of space and time and in finding fully satisfactory formal grammars for present and future programming languages."
"The syntactic rules for many programming languages have been expressed by formal grammars, generally variants of phrase-structure grammars. The syntactic analysis essential to translation of programming languages can be done entirely mechanically for such languages. Major problems remain in rendering analyzers efficient in use of space and time and in finding fully satisfactory formal grammars for present and future programming languages."
"Phrase-structure grammars were first introduced and studied by Chomsky as devices for generating the sentences of a language. By means of increasingly heavy restrictions on the productions (rewriting rules), four types of grammars were singled out by Chomsky: type 0 (unrestricted), type 1 (context-dependent), type 2 (context-free), and type 3 (finite state). In this paper, a number of decision problems are resolved for these classes of grammars and the languages they generate, largely in the negative. A table of decision problems for grammars of the four different types is presented. This table indicates the problems which have been found to be decidable or undecidable. The ambiguity problem for type 3 grammars and the emptiness and infiniteness problems for type 2 grammars are shown to be decidable. A known unsolvable problem, the Post correspondence problem, is the key to the undecidability proofs which are given. For type 2 grammars, the ambiguity and equivalence problems are proved undecidable; the emptiness and infiniteness problems for type 1 grammars are shown to be undecidable. There is no algorithm to decide whether a language of a given type can be generated by a grammar of a more restricted type. The results on type 2 grammars were first obtained by Bar-Hillel, Perles, and Shamir."
"This paper considers a class of information sources consisting of text and pictures. The text is English language text appearing in scientific and technical documents. The picture sources are the largely schematic pictures that occur in the same class of documents. However, the discussion is broadened slightly to include other picture sources. For a tiny fragment of English, the paper shows how the syntactic structure of text may be described, and then goes on to suggest that a similar analysis may be performed on the class of pictures under study. The description of these two kinds of information sources with a single class of descriptive techniques is suggested as an alternative to the synthetic approach in which artificial languages are specified and then learned and used. The major reason for doing syntactical analysis of such sources discussed here is that several information processing operations, amounting to the interpretation of the information sources looked upon as languages, can be done by the technique of syntax direction which uses the results of syntactic analysis to mediate subsequent processes for manipulating the information tokens. The paper concludes with an illustration of an algorithm for matching the sentences given by a simple grammar against the class of simple pictures which these sentences purport to describe."
"After tracing the history of the development of ALGOL this paper discusses its current status as a candidate for adoption as an international standard. The main features of the language are then described and an example of ALGOL programming is provided and explained."
"The fundamental concepts of FORTRAN, the most widely used high-level, scientific programming language, are set forth and the significant characteristics are described in historical order from inception of FORTRAN in 1954 to the present time. The basic problem of how to get high quality programming from an-easy- to-write high-level language is emphasized."
"The purpose of this paper is to give an over-all view of the FORMAC language. FORMAC is an experimental programming system designed to permit the manipulation of mathematical expressions. The paper includes a brief description of the FORMAC language and samples of complete FORMAC programs. It should be noted that FORMAC is an experimental program, and that at the present time IBM has no intention of releasing it to their customers."
"There are two distinct (though not necessarily disjoint) types of language extension. The first is a syntactic extension, in which the class of expressions interpretable within a language is widened. The second is an extension of the functional domain in which operations not previously performable are added to the language. These extensions may be implemented by completely reprogramming the basic language processor (the compiler or interpreter), but such extensions may often be achieved at far less cost by embedding. The authors give an example of each of these two types of extensions by embedding, adding list-processing facilities to the FORTRAN language, and extending the list processing language LISP to facilitate expression and interpretation of string transformations. As an aid to those unfamiliar with list processing, there is a section which reviews this subject. Included are descriptions and explanations of list structures, the various notations used for lists, the basic processes of list processing, and the different notations (machine language, functional, and prototype) used for expressing processing of lists."
"This paper illustrates the use of SOL, a general-purpose algorithmic language useful for describing and simulating complex systems. Such a system is described as a number of individual processes which simultaneously enact a program very much like a computer program. (Some features of the SOL language are directly applicable to programming languages for parallel computers, as well as for simulation.) Once a system has been described in the language, the program can be translated by the SOL compiler into an interpretive code, and the execution of this code produces statistical information about the model. A detailed example of a SOL model for a multiple on-line console system is exhibited, indicating the notational simplicity and intuitive nature of the language."
"This paper gives a formal definition of SOL, a general-purpose algorithmic language useful for describing and simulating complex systems. SOL is described using meta-linguistic formulas as used in the definition of ALGOL 60. The principal differences between SOL and problem-oriented languages such as ALGOL or FORTRAN is that SOL includes capabilities for expressing parallel computation, convenient notations for embedding random quantities within arithmetic expressions and automatic means for gathering statistics about the elements involved. SOL differs from other simulation languages such as SIMSCRIPT primarily in simplicity of use and in readability since it is capable of describing models without including computer-oriented characteristics."
"The language of DAS (Digital Analog Simulation) simplifies communication between an engineer and a digital computer. Typical applications range from evaluating design formulas to simulating air defense systems. Training time is about two hours. To describe a problem in DAS language, the engineer first sketches a block diagram of the problem, using blocks describable by single words of the DAS vocabulary. These words include I (for integrator), S (for summer), TD (for time delay), and about twenty others. The output of one or more of the blocks in the basic diagram represents the solution to the problem. To provide for printing or plotting these outputs automatically, several kinds of read-out blocks are available. The DAS language description of the block diagram consists of a list of all the blocks used in the diagram and a related list showing which blocks provide inputs to those in the first list. This dual list is the DAS language description of the problem. A program for solving problems described in DAS language is available through SHARE. Engineers at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base use DAS language programs together with their own interpreter (called MIDAS) to aid in setting-up and checking-out large analog simulations. Both SHARE-DAS and MIDAS are designed for use with an IBM 7094 computer."
"The original work on Logic Design Translators was motivated by the realization that it is possible to automate, to a certain degree, the repetitious and time-consuming process of developing logic equations for digital computers. In this paper, the linguistic basis for the system is discussed. An experiment which explains the translation process is also presented. The translator resembles closely a compiler system; the several language levels involved in the logical design process are discussed. Finally, a relationship between language and machine design is demonstrated."
"Experience in the area of combinatorial computing acquired by the Maniac group at Los Alamos has motivated language development in this direction. Features incorporated into the MADCAP language to aid in programming combinatorial calculations include notation for set synthesis and analysis, notation for variably nested iterations (backtracking) and notation for complex conditional statements. The paper also examines the relationship of such combinatorial language design to machine design. Prominent in this discussion are the bit manipulation (shifting, counting and searching) facilities of Maniac II."
"An informal description of the LOTIS language is presented. LOTIS is intended for formally describing the logical structure, the sequencing, and the timing of digital machines. An effort has been made to produce a hardware notation that is convenient and lucid, precise and flexible. In a LOTIS machine description, every linguistic constituent corresponds to a unique machine element. Timing can be specified in the synchronous or asynchronous mode or in any combination of both. Autonomous control units have a notational counterpart by which, concurrency of several machine sequences, timesharing of facilities by several control units, and interlocks, can be concisely expressed. A machine description has a hierarchical structure with an arbitrary number of levels; this permits it to be readily segmented. Depending on the focus of interest, the level of descriptive detail can be varied over the different segments."
"A study of the general area of problem solving with a digital computer has revealed characteristics of data that are essentially ignored or suppressed in conventional systems. In an attempt to increase the capability and flexibility of a digital system, a new, high-level language, which utilizes these data characteristics has been defined. A machine organization, which implements this language as a machine language and yet imposes no restrictions on the use of the language has been proposed. This paper presents a general description of the philosophy and structure of the language."
"As an experiment in problem-oriented computer languages a system was developed to aid applications engineers in composing text for equipment proposals to customers. Building the proposal writer system around FORTRAN II enabled the system to be completed quickly and with modest effort. The use of the system is still considered experimental; however, the language is presented in the belief that it qualifies as a language topic with an engineering flavor."
"In recent years adaptive threshold ele-ments have been used as the basis for learning machines such as the Perceptron [1] and Adaline [2]. To the author's knowledge there has been no previously reported work on a systematic study of algorithms, used in learning machines, to modify the weightvalues of threshold elements."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1964."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper is an extension of the work of Hartmanis and Stearns on sequential machine state assignments with reduced dependence. In Section II the critical partition pairs of transition-incomplete sequential machines are defined, and methods are given for computing them. Section III pursues certain combinatorial problems associated with the construction of assignments with reduced dependence, once the critical partition pairs are known. The algorithms derived in this paper provide the nucleus of a systematic procedure for the construction of economical state assignments."
"An approach based on correlation techniques is developed for the analysis and synthesis of threshold elements. A necessary and sufficient condition for linear separability is derived. Single-threshold-element realizability of arbitrary Boolean functions of n variables is shown to be dependent on a (n+1)-tuple of real numbers (characteristic vector), derivable solely from the given Boolean function. The task of finding appropriate weights for a given threshold function is converted to the minimization of a functional. Approximation to this functional relates the desired weights with the characteristic vector. As the degree of approximation increases, exact solution for the weights becomes possible at the expense of increased computational complexity. The absolute value of characteristic vector components is used to tabulate threshold functions compactly. A table is given for functions of up to six variables which permits one to determine directly, whenever it is possible, the weights and threshold that realize a given function without Boolean manipulation of that function into a standard form."
"A Boolean function has an inverse when every output is the result of one and only one input. There are 2n! Boolean functions of n variables which have an inverse. Equivalence classes of these functions are sets of equivalent functions in the sense that they are identical under a group operation on the input and output variables. This paper counts through five variables the number of equivalence classes of invertible Boolean functions under the group operation of complementation, permutation, and complementation and permutation, linear transformations and affine transformations. Lower bounds are given which experimentally give an asymptotic approximation. A representative function is given of each of the 52 classes of invertible Boolean functions of three variables under complementation and permutation. These are divided into three types of classes, 21 self-inverting functions, three functions have an inverse in the same class and 14 pairs of functions, each function of the pair in a different class. The four representative functions under the affine transformation are self-invertible."
"A new theoretical approach to the description of state-logic relations is presented, which applies to linear as well as nonlinear autonomous networks. A formal link, based on a matrix algorithm, is found between the internal logic of the network and its terminal behavior. The application of matrix algebra is the most attractive and encouraging aspect of this theory, in view of possible systematic minimization procedures."
"This paper considers the problem of economical assignment of codes to the internal states of sequential circuits. The only restriction placed on these circuits is the fact that they are assumed to be clocked. The internal logic is realized with two-level diode or transistor circuitry, and the methods given here minimize both the number of gates and of gate inputs (diodes) required to realize a given sequential circuit. Methods are first developed for the coding of small fully specified state tables for which only the internal logic is to be minimized. These methods are then successively extended to cover the situations where it is desired to minimize simultaneously both the internal logic and the output logic of a sequential circuit, where the state tables are not fully specified, and where the size of the state tables is arbitrarily large. A method for dealing with the special class of ``counter-like'' state tables is also given. All the procedures presented here are designed to be easily programmable on a digital computer, and several of these methods have been so programmed. Our methods are discussed and compared with other existing procedures."
"Comparators and adders are among the circuits that can take best advantage of the combined properties of transistors and tunnel diodes. The paper describes a transistor-tunnel diode complementary output pair module that is used as a basis for several configurations of comparators, half adder and full adder circuits. The comparators and half adders are discussed qualitatively. A detailed design and tolerance analysis of the full adder circuit is presented and the design equations that will optimize the tolerance requirements are derived. A switching analysis of the carry portion of the full adder circuit is carried out. The results illustrate that stray elements rather than intrinsic device performance are the dominant factors contributing to carry delay in a conventionally wired system. The paper also describes the results of the tests made on an eight-bit adder system which was constructed with conventionally encapsulated devices and standard wiring. The average carry delay per stage in this system was ¾ nsec. The time required to obtain the correct final sum output was 3 to 5 nsec after arrival of the carry. Tests with specially encapsulated high-speed transistors and low-capacity gallium arsenide tunnel diodes showed 0.2-nsec carry delay and 2-nsec sum delay."
"This paper is of a semitutorial nature in that the transverse fields in a transmission system of the type existing in magnetic thin-film memories are shown to be obtainable by solution of the two-dimensional Laplace equation. The solution is carried out for the symmetrical shielded strip-line having a zero-thickness center conductor. Application of the specific results, which have not appeared before, is discussed briefly and some normalized plots are included."
"This paper describes a coincident current magnetic core memory with a capacity of 16,384 words, of 27 bits each and a cycle time of 1.2 μsec. It utilizes 30-mils ferrite toroid cores with low temperature coefficient, allowing operating temperature up to 75°C, thus eliminating the need for cooling equipment. The drive and sense system of the memory is unusually simple. The main concepts which enhance simplicity are a simple method for eliminating the capacitive noise currents in a transformer matrix, and, further a drive module with a floating output is used both for the entire selection system and as an inhibit driver. In the sense amplifier, the dc restoration has been done by gain control without loss of speed. These features are described in some detail, while the other rcircuitry is mentioned for completeness, but only briefly."
"This paper contains a discussion of a programmed algorithm for designing multifont recognition logics. This design algorithm automatically derives effective recognition logics from representative samples of characters. It has been applied to design. translational invariant logics for upper and lower case typewritten alphabets. Recognition performances in the order of a few errors per thousand characters have been achieved for mixed-font characters from six to 11 different fonts over a wide range of printing quality."
"The negative gradient method is extended to the stable analog computer programming of a class of nonlinear time-varying trajectory problems defined by &#x000F8;(x, t) = 0, f(u, x, t) = 0, u = x = dx/dt, where x and u are n-dimensional vectors, &#x000F8; is an m-dimensional position vector function (m<n) and f is an (n-m)-dimensional velocity vector function. This class of problems includes the amplitude stabilized harmonic oscillator, two-or three-dimensional contour tracing, planetary motion simulation and certain vibration problems in mechanics involving Lagrange's equations and positional constraints. An augmented velocity vector function (&#x003C8;) is defined by &#x003C8; = f + d&#x000F8;/dt which provides n independent equations *#x003C8; = 0. For a fixed x, these equations can be solved for u in the computer ``reset'' mode. In the ``compute'' mode u is connected to the integrator developing x. The computer program is shown to be easily stabilized by time scaling."
"When digital computers are employed to solve linear and nonlinear partial differential equations using implicit finite-difference approximations, the most time-consuming portion of the calculation is the solution of the large system of simultaneous difference equations which must be carried out for each time increment. Recognizing that an analog computer system, by virtue of its parallel mode of operation, generates solutions of simultaneous algebraic equations virtually instantaneously regardless of the number of equations involved, a combined analog and digital computer system has been developed. The system includes a small digital computer connected in a closed loop with a network of analog elements, consisting of an array of inexpensive node modules, one for each grid point in space. The purpose of this network is to solve the system of difference equations whenever this solution is required by the digital program. The analog unit, therefore, serves as a subroutine. The resulting system has a number of important advantages over pure digital computer techniques."
"Much progress has been made in speeding up communications between input-output digital equipment and the central processing unit. Faster and faster card readers, printers and tape drives have been developed to match the vastly increased internal processing speeds of modern digital computers. In contrast, direct man-machine communication still lags far behind machine-machine data exchange. Much work is being done to ease this communications bottleneck in such areas as character recognition and voice recognition, which are but two of the more well-known examples."
"It is possible to describe the behavior of a parametron [1] by Mathieu's equation after introducing certain simplifications. However, for an accurate, quantitative analysis, one has to take into account the nonlinear periodic change of parameters. In order to study the behavior more accurately, especially the transient behavior, an analog computer was employed to simulate a low-speed parametron. The basic circuit of a variable-inductance parametron is shown in Fig. 1."
"An interrogation routine is described which retrieves k multiple responses in, at best, (k+1) memory cycles and, at worst, (2k-1) memory cycles. In comparison, the fastest routine described in the literature, Lewin's routine5, always requires (2k-1) memory cycles. The reduction in number of memory cycles achieved by this interrogation routine is at the expense of some sophistication in the bit plane sensing device, namely, distinguishing between no signal, one unit of signal, and more than one unit of signal rather than distinguishing between absence and presence of signal. For large word lengths in respect to the average number of multiple responses, it is apparent that the best case will be expected."
"The merit of the method of Cohn and Lindaman for the synthesis of combinational logical functions using three-input majority elements depends mainly on the specialty of the function. An extension of the method of Cohn and Lindaman, which is effective even in the case that the specialty above mentioned does not hold, is described."
"A class of 3-valued switching functions, called ternary threshold functions, has been defined and described in some detail by Hanson [1]. It has been suggested' that continued investigation of synthesis with functions of this class is desirable; this note elaborates further on the properties of ternary threshold functions and demonstrates some to their use in network synthesis.2"
"Virtually all practical computers in existence today use bistable switching devices to perform logical functions. However, with the advancing state-of-the-art, switching devices possessing three stable states may soon be feasible for which the speed, cost and reliability approach those of bistable devices. In anticipation of such a possibility, it seems worthwhile to determine the output functions which it would be most desirable for these ternary devices to have. The tabulations presented in this note may assist in accomplishing this."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1964."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper presents a method of determining, from the flow table of an autonomous sequential machine, whether the machine can be realized by a linear circuit which uses the minimum possible number of secondary variables. The method is based on a class of binary partitions of states, which are used to find a minimal assignment of the secondary variables such that the next state and output functions are linear. The partitions are examined in detail and the properties necessary to produce a valid assignment are developed."
"This paper presents a method of determining, from the flow table of an autonomous sequential machine, whether the machine can be realized by a linear circuit which uses the minimum possible number of secondary variables. The method is based on a class of binary partitions of states, which are used to find a minimal assignment of the secondary variables such that the next state and output functions are linear. The partitions are examined in detail and the properties necessary to produce a valid assignment are developed."
"A large number of Boolean functions may be realized as the output of a single threshold element; however, not all functions are so realizable. Those Fn which are, are said to belong to the class R. No easily applicable criteria have been formulated which enable an unequivocal determination to be made of whether a given Fnϵ R. There are, however, certain transformations allowable on those Fnϵ R which exhibit a closure property, that is, the transformation results in an Fpϵ R. There are also certain properties of the form of Fnϵ R which can be recognized easily. A knowledge of these permissible transformations and observations of the form of a given Fn will, in many instances, allow for the desired. determination. This paper, for the most part, examines those permissible transformations and properties of form."
"A cutpoint cellular array is a two-dimensional rectangular arrangement of square cells, each of which has binary inputs on the top and left edges and outputs on the bottom and right edges. Each cell is interconnected with neighboring cells, and it is specialized by a set of binary constants that are termed cutpoints. This paper is concerned with the choice of the logical properties for each cutpoint cell, so that an array of these cells is capable of efficient and general combinational and sequential logic. Logical design algorithms are given, as well as a number of actual designs. It is believed that cutpoint cellular arrays have promise for application in the manufacture of a large number of integrated circuit components on one substrate."
"A method of decomposing logical functions using three input majority gates is given. This method requires that at least one of the inputs to the gate be specified, and from this the other inputs may be found. For unate functions one of the variables may be completely separated at each level. A method using a Karnaugh map is proposed for finding the best function to use as the specified input, which will make the other inputs to the majority gate easier to synthesize."
"The multiple use of a relatively few types of basic building blocks in digital computers requires that the system designer know the actual performance characteristics of these units in order to produce optimum designs. Worst-case analysis procedures do not yield realistic performance data. The performance-prediction technique discussed in this paper is based on the development of empirical mathematical models which relate the performance variables of interest to the pertinent system parameters. Prediction equations are fitted for the logic elements in a parity-check network for rise, fall, delay, and storage times as a function of the fan-in and fan-out of the logic element and the fan-in and fan-out of the stages which drive it. A statistical analysis of the prediction equations is made to determine the validity of the models. The goodness of fit of these models is presented in graphical form."
"The design of a random-access, word-organized storage system with nondestructive read-out of information is described. The storage element upon which the design is based consists of a tunnel diode-transistor combination. Measurements on a simulated store of 16 words ×24 digits capacity indicate that cycle times of approximately 40 nsec for Read orders and 65 nsec for Write orders can be achieved."
"Amplifier and driver circuit design principles for an experimental 4608-bit nondestructive thin film memory with 13.5-nsec read and 60-nsec write cycle times are given. The bit noise problems inherent in the common bit sense line concept are solved by using tunnel diodes in a nonlinear balancing circuit. A further improvement of the signal-to-noise ratio is achieved by employing a noise resistant sense amplifier with nonlinear negative feedback. The word driver described is capable of delivering 700 ma pulse amplitude at 50 mc repetition rate at a pulse width of 7 nsec."
"This paper presents the results of an attempt to automate part of a formalized method of system design. Basic to this method are two languages, Boolean algebra and a register transfer language. From a Boolean algebra description a digital system can be constructed while the second language can be used in a step by step description of the execution of each instruction. To illustrate, a register transfer language is used to give a description of an adder considered as part of a digital system. This description is then translated into a set of Boolean equations. Next, the automation of this translation by using a syntax-directed compiler is explained. The compiler requires a syntactic description of register transfers. This description is given using a meta-language called Backus normal form. A Backus normal form description of Boolean equations that is used for translating Boolean equations into register transfers is also given; this translation process is called analysis. The feasibility of computer-aided design and analysis is thereby demonstrated. The computer-aided design method described in this paper, besides eliminating drudgery and error, would permit several system designs to be attempted and evaluated; a permanent record of the chosen system would also be available for future modifications, maintenance, and simulation. The analysis programs could be used to check the effect on the system of any changes made in the Boolean equations (or equivalently the logical diagrams) and the effect of any unused operation codes."
"In this paper the relation between a sequential circuit and its regular expression is investigated. The circuits are without special starting units. One method of analysis of a circuit leads to a set of equations whose solutions are regular expressions related to the state diagram of the circuit. In another approach, a set of regular equations, identical in form to the next state equations, is obtained directly from the circuit. By reversing the regular equations and using derivatives, the regular equations are transformed to a form related to the reverse state diagram. The discussion clarifies the relationship among circuits, regular expressions and state diagrams. Moreover, further insight is obtained into the solution of equations with as unknowns."
"In this paper the relation between a sequential circuit and its regular expression is investigated. The circuits are without special starting units. One method of analysis of a circuit leads to a set of equations whose solutions are regular expressions related to the state diagram of the circuit. In another approach, a set of regular equations, identical in form to the next state equations, is obtained directly from the circuit. By reversing the regular equations and using derivatives, the regular equations are transformed to a form related to the reverse state diagram. The discussion clarifies the relationship among circuits, regular expressions and state diagrams. Moreover, further insight is obtained into the solution of equations with regular expressions as unknowns."
"In the course of the design of a small-scale digital computer for use as a communications buffer and processor it was found possible to greatly increase the capability of the computer in the encoding and decoding of a number of error control codes without significantly increasing the complexity of the hardware by the addition of three commands to the instruction repertoire of the computer. These commands are Galois Field Multiply, Galois Field Divide, and Compute Word Parity."
"In the course of the design of a small-scale digital computer for use as a communications buffer and processor it was found possible to greatly increase the capability of the computer in the encoding and decoding of a number of error control codes without significantly increasing the complexity of the hardware by the addition of three commands to the instruction repertoire of the computer. These commands are Galois Field Multiply, Galois Field Divide, and Compute Word Parity."
"While considerable attention has been devoted to the problems of automatic character recognition, either handwritten or printed, almost all such work has involved static examination of the characters. Little attention'12 has been paid to techniques for dynamic character recognition, i.e., examination during the time of formation, presumably because such processes have tended to be inefficient as communication techniques and wasteful of computer time. With the recent interest in closer man-machine coupling3 and the development of computer time-sharing techniques' to make such coupling economic, it is important to consider ways to utilize manual printing as a link to a computer system, particularly since the size and nature of the character sets available on convention keyboards is restricted compared to the symbol requirements in many disciplines. For example, it would be very useful to be able to describe a mathematic expression to a FORTRAN compiler using normal mathematical forms including integral signs, etc."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A short-period variable-reluctance type seismometer, suitable for use in deep wells, has been developed. Electrical and mechanical characteristics are similar to the standard Benioff vertical seismometer. The deep-well seismometer is 5 inches (12.7 cm) in diameter and has a length of 10 feet (3 m). It consists of a spring-mass system, a variable-reluctance transducer, locking and unlocking provisions for the mass system, and an internal calibrator. The inertial mass, weighing 100 Kg, has a natural, undamped period of 1.0 sec. When used with a galvanometer-phototube amplifier, magnifications of earth motion of the order of 10at 1 cps are possible. For routine use, the system response is peaked between 2 and 3 cps."
"A fundamental problem in the analysis of seismic traces is increasing the resolution of overlapping events. One method of attack is the use of so-called \"inverse\" digital filters. An inverse digital filter frequently has the undesirable characteristic that its memory function grows without limit with increasing time. Such inverse filters are called \"unstable.\" In the present treatment, filter stability is investigated in some detail. In particular, a digital filter of the \"minimum-delay\" type is shown to have an inverse that consists only of a stable memory function. On the other hand, a filter of the \"maximum-delay\" type has an inverse that consists only of a stable anticipation function. A filter which is neither minimum-delay nor maximum-delay, but which is of the \"mixed-delay\" type, has a stable inverse, this inverse being made up of a memory component and an anticipation component. Filters with nonvanishing anticipation components are physically nonrealizable only if one wishes them to work in real time, that is, filters functioning in real time cannot operate on future values of the input. This difficulty may be overcome by making a complete and permanent record of the entire data sequence to be analyzed prior to any filtering operation. In this manner, filters need only operate on already available input values. Any filter design allowing one to delay the output until the entire input has been recorded will thus satisfy our requirements."
"Time functions of physical phenomena may be deliberately or inadvertently altered before recording by a system whose bandwidth is less than that of the signal. It is often desired to later restore such data by removing the effects of linear filters. This restoration may be accomplished by synthesizing inverse linear filters on either analog or digital computers. Approximations are sometimes necessary to insure stability of the inverse filter; compromises must be made between amplitude and phase distortion, dynamic range, bandwidth, and signal-to-noise ratio. Examples are shown in which test signals are first filtered and then restored. The analog computer treatment has proved useful in processing geophysical data."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Federal Communications Commission has adopted new rules concerning the qualifications of operators of broadcast stations. The transmitting equipment of each station will be subject to periodic inspections and a maintenance log pertaining thereto will be kept. Clarifications are listed concerning present entries in the operating log of a station. In case the station contemplates the use of automatic logging equipment, certain conditions and requirements have to be met. An automatic transmitter, if such were available, capable of correcting itself to operate in accordance with FCC rules would, of course, obviate the need for any logs or monitoring equipment."
"Problems encountered in the design of a recently developed data transmission link are discussed. The advantages of the GaAs junction diode as the modulated light source and the advantages of operating the diode in the laser mode are considered. A derivation of the received power as a function of the beam angle and range is given. Considerations in the selection of the photopickup device and its relative merits are presented."
"In 1961 the American Broadcasting Company initiated color network programming from film. Since no industry standards for the characteristics of color prints for television use were available, such recommended standard characteristics were created by ABC for this purpose. This paper discusses the gratifying results of a year's experience in the application of these practices and gives in some detail the reasons for the density range and color balance recommended. The paper is of particular interest to television engineers since it gives specific recommendations for steps necessary in television broadcasting to obtain optimum results in color programming from film. These recommendations include the proper care in installation and adjustment of the color film camera, the precise adjustment of levels and transfer characteristics of the three color separation channels in the color camera, the standardization of color temperature of the multiplexed projectors, the maintenance of color adjustments during operation and the use of color film which meets the color balance and density standards recommended."
"The coverage objectives for KERO-TV's new Channel 23 UHF station at Bakersfield are outlined. The design parameters and the performance characteristics of a 10-panel zig-zag array which meets these objectives are discussed. This antenna employs an accurately controlled directional horizontal pattern to achieve a maximum power gain of 74. Operating at more than one mile above the San Joaquin Valley, this antenna enables KERO-TV to achieve its maximum legal effective radiated power of 1.76 Mw."
"Experiences of WTEV, Providence, in setting up its operation for all-day programming using the Visual 6000 Automation System in conjunction with an IBM 26 Prestorage System are presented. Included are the necessary steps taken to meet the demands of the machine, i.e., design of log, film, video and audio tape timing, transitions and timing of cartridge tapes."
"The ability of a television system to resolve detail is one of its most fundamental properties, and the most complete specification of resolving power is a response characteristic which indicates the response factor for each number of elements resolved."
"A truly portable television tape recorder-reproducer using the slant-track recording technique now provides the broadcast industry with a long-awaited storage device for news and special events. Outdoor pickups using a vidicon camera and a microphone have provided low cost, instant playback news event coverages, with a total package weight under 100 pounds, consuming less than 500 watts of power. Excellent compatibility between machines permits shipment of the newly recorded tapes to a different playback location. The same machine can be used on either U.S. (525/60) or International Radio Consultive Committee (625/50) standards with only two simple field adjustments."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"With the advent of the manufacture of miniature radio transmitters, the use of electronic devices for eavesdropping has become more and more prevalent. There are presently no federal laws directly prohibiting the purchase or use of electronic surveillance equipment."
"There has been considerable lack of understanding by station personnel of the effects of envelope delay on both their monochrome and color pictures. Operating personnel have often become confused by the appearance of predistorted signals to accomplish the proper system performance at the receiver. A substantial number of waveform and kinescope pictures have been made for the purpose of instruction and education. This informaion is the basis of this paper."
"The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has long considered 12 VHF channels incapable of providing an efficient television system. Its responsibilities to make UHF broadcasting competitive with VHF led it to seek authority from Congress to require that all receivers be equipped with UHF tuners. Having obtained this authority, the FCC turned to other concurrent activities which would lead to surmounting the technical and nonechnical problems encountered in UHF broadcasting. In particular, an industry advisory committee was formed in 1963 entitled, \"Committee for the Full Development of All-Channel Broadcasting.\" This Committee makes recommendations to the FCC as to how, by amendment of its rules and policies, UHF broadcasting can become fully viable."
"Of the various modes of broadcasting which are possible, it appears that telecasting has the greatest potential. Because of the nature of the signals, it is also the most difficult. In space telecasting two lines of approach are open. One method is to design a system around the special capabilities and limitations imposed by space satellite operation and technique. The second method is to adjust the space system until it meets the requirements of conventional terrestrial telecasting. For this study it is assumed that the space system will be operated as an adjunct to the conventional system, that it must provide the same quality of service as is now available, and that conventional receivers are used. The remainder of this paper is devoted to examination of the effects of these assumptions, and to the establishment of proposed standards which are consistent with them."
"This paper describes a new television broadcast plant in which significant improvements have been made in the following areas: 1) Camera control center 2) Sync distribution system 3) Video tape recording and playback system 4) Audio system 5) Control room switcher 6) Transmitter control center 7) Maintenance 8) Studio lighting 9) Automatic switching system"
"The effects of a finitely conducting earth on the field attenuation and on the radiation impedance and radiation pattern of a half-wave dipole antenna in and near the earth are investigated and reported. The measurements were made at two frequencies, f = 93.7 Mcps and f = 179.76 Mcps. The signals were horizontally polarized and measurements were made for antenna heights varying in 0.1 wavelength increments from one wavelength above ground to 0.3 wavelength below ground."
"A new system for handling magnetic tape is described. This system was developed over the past three years to answer problems of tape handling convenience and reliability. The result is a multiple cartridge tape recorder/player using reversible continuous loop cartridges. There are only two rotating parts in the mechanism and the electronics are solid-state and plug-in. This is the only multiple cartridge tape system which can operate as 6 complete tape recorders in one. This is also the first continuous loop which can be reversed as a reel-to-reel tape."
"A dicussion on video noise weighting is presented. A standard way of comparing results is proposed."
"To satisfy a requirement of the U. S. Weather Bureau to view weather radar images many miles from the radar site, a system was developed which uses a slow-scan vidicon to convert an optical image of the radar display to a narrow-band television signal suitable for transmission over conventional telephone circuits. Scan-conversion equipment utilizing the Permachon storage vidicon converts the received slow-scan TV image to a bright 625-line TV display. The equipment cost is comparable to the cost of one possible alternative; a single hop microwave link and low brightness radar indicator. It is considerably less expensive than a microwave link plus bright display scan-conversion system. The slow-scan system has the further advantage that it can be used with a telephone circuit of any length, whereas a single microwave link is limited to about 30 miles."
"EXISTING analytical methods for predetermining the anode and grid currents of a triode harmonic generator are examined. These methods are found to give large unpredictable errors which may be of the order of 25 per cent. A new analytical method is devised, based on a power series representation of the tube characteristics, whereby the anode current components can be forecast with a maximum error of less than 6 per cent for harmonic generation up to fifth order. This method is also applied to the prediction of grid currents and is found to be more accurate than previous analytical methods."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"This paper develops some of the basic properties of a particular type of adaptive control process. Because of the ambiguity which surrounds the adjective \"adaptive\", the essential property which characterizes this class of adaptive control problems is considered in detail. The usual type of performance criterion does not provide a satisfactory ordering of the control policies in these problems. Three approaches are introduced which avoid this difficulty, and their relative merits are studied."
"This study is concerned with the problems in pattern recognition when input observations are taken sequentially with a proper stopping rule. The fact that sequential decision procedures (sequential probability ratio test and generalized sequential probability ratio test) can reduce the average risk in a monotonic fashion implies the gradual improvement of system performance during operation. The feature selection problem is also considered and both receptor (feature-extraction) and categorizer (decision) parts are treated as a whole. Before a terminal decision is made, a feedback path requests the categorizer to continue taking observations and properly adjust the stopping thresholds. At the same time, another feedback path feeds back the outcome of recognitions thus far obtained to the receptor for selecting a proper feature for the next observation. Using the proposed recognition scheme, the overall system performance has shown significant improvement during operation. Sequential recognition in random environment with and without an outside \"supervision\" is investigated, and the advantage of the proposed recognition system under \"unsupervised\" learning is discussed. Computer simulation of the recognition system with learning indicates very satisfactory results."
"This paper presents the results of a study of adaptive communication systems in which the \"learning\" is based on Bayes' Theorem. The learning is then used to guide adaptation whose purpose is to optimize system performance. Performance is evaluated by a measure based on decision theory. The communication system model used is a binary symmetric channel where \"r\" denotes the probability of correct transmission, and it is assumed that only the decoding is adaptable. Assuming a time invariant unknown r, it is shown that the true value of r will be learned in the limit, if, and only if, there is some redundancy in the message. It is also shown that the proposed adaptive system will converge to the best possible system if the true value of r is learned. The speed of convergence is measured by the probability that the best possible decoding system is selected after n messages have been received. This measure is calculated for a sample adaptive system in order to show the effect of redundancy in the transmitted message, the number of messages received, and the true value of r."
"A real time computational method is presented for the identification of linear discrete dynamic systems with unknown parameters. It is shown that the method is globally convergent to the true parameters in a stochastic environment. Experimental simulation of second and fourth-order systems further affirms the practicality of the method."
"An adaptive digital matched filter structure is developed for the case where the input signal is of known form and finite duration and the input noise has a power spectral density which is all-pole. The effect of noise spectrum identification errors on system performance is investigated both theoretically and experimentally. It is shown that, when the noise is highly correlated, the adapting structure leads to significant improvement in the output signal-to-noise ratio (and hence in the detection characteristics) with relatively short measurement times. This suggests the use of switching logic to allow noise adaptation only when measurements indicate a highly correlated noise background."
"This paper presents a survey of some recent results in the theory of adaptive decision making systems. When the statistics describing a given observation are completely known a decision rule merely provides a fixed mapping from the observation space to the space of possible actions. When the statistics are unknown, however, it is possible to employ a sequence of observations in order to improve the average performance of the system on each observation. Such a system may be said to \"learn\" the statistical description of the observations it is taking. The learning observations may be presented to the system either with or without information concerning the specific situation which gave rise to the observations. For example in character recognition the observations are usually presented to the system together with information specifying each learning observation as a sample of some specific character; in random channel applications on the other hand the more common situation is one in which the receiver obtains observations of previous transmissions through the channel but the receiver does not know which transmitter signal gave rise to each observation. The first situation is known as learning with a teacher while the second is known as learning without a teacher. Iterative solutions suitable for machine implementation will be presented for both of these problems. The question of the size of the system or the amount of the computation necessary to implement these adaptive systems will be emphasized. For any given amount of data to be processed (i.e., for any given dimension of the observation) there exist computational techniques for simplifying the calculations to be performed. The use of sufficient statistics can greatly reduce the amount of storage necessary for the system. In addition it is sometimes possible to evaluate the effect of taking varying amounts of data (i.e., of varying the dimemsion at the observation). For example, one surprising result is that increasing the dimension of the observation (i.e., taking additional measurements) may result in a degredation of the average performance of the adaptive system."
"The analysis of a data compression system of the adaptive prediction-comparison type is presented. The compression attainable as a function of the process spectral density, the adaptive predictor learning period, and the portion of the past used in the prediction process is investigated for a stationary Gaussian Time series."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"AUTONETICS and certain of its microminiature electronic component suppliers are currently engaged in Component Quality Assurance Programs. These programs are designed and are being conducted to assure the timely achievement of Minuteman II Guidance and Control System reliability requirements. This report describes the organization, implementation, and progress to date."
"ASTUDY of the noise characteristics of a general purpose silicon diode (type 1 N645) was made to determine whether excessive r-f noise is correlated with high failure rates. The selection of the abnormally high noise diodes was made by monitoring the noise level across the diode as it was excited with an a-c voltage within the diode maximum ratings. Mechanical stress in the form of impacts within the rated value was applied simultaneously to aggravate structural imperfections. Noise measurements at 25 mc were used for the recognition of weaknesses and early failure. The forward and reverse characteristics were obtained for the diodes exhibiting high r-f noise. These were compared with the characteristics of diodes exhibiting normal r-f noise. In the forward direction, no difference was obtained; in the reverse biased condition, the average leakage current of all the noisy diodes was considerably higher than the average of the quiet group. In addition it was noted that the r-f noise level of the diodes was almost inversely proportional to the avalanche breakdown voltage. The diodes were also tested for 1/f noise; 35% of the r-f noisy diodes also exhibited high 1/f noise, whereas only 1.2% of the diodes having normal r-f noise exhibited high I/f noise. The noise spectrum taken on a number of the silicon diodes indicates that the 1/f noise extends into the megacycle region."
"STEP stressing techniques have greatly aided the semiconductor device designers to achieve and verify device reliability improvements. In the application of these techniques it has been convenient to compare power step stress and constant power data with an empirically derived temperature derating curve. Several discrepancies have been observed when this comparison has been made in earlier work. This paper describes the use of an n-p-n diffused silicon mesa transistor as a vehicle in an investigatior designed to explore the validity of the power step stress technique as a means of predicting life expectancy. Two-hour power step stress was used at various combinations of current and voltage and the devices were stressed to a statistically significant failure level. Carefully determined equivalent junction temperature measurements at various bias voltages were then utilized to correlate this failure to temperature. Data is presented to show that the two major failure modes found in this transistor, namely \"collector channeling\" and emitter softening are dependent upon bias conditions. It is also shown that junction temperature is not uniquely determined by the absolute power level but is more dependent on the mode of operation. A unique method of plotting power aging data is introduced to demonstrate that device life is primarily determined by junction temperature. This method which employs the current-voltage coordinates of power illustrates that different current-voltage conditions promote different failure mechanisms. It further shows, however, that all of the major failure mechanisms are closely related to the junction temperature."
"IN SILICON, n-p-n, double-diffused mesa transistors, emitter softening is a term which has been coined to describe a unique form of device life failure. It is characterized by an increase in the emitter leakage current which occurs during power aging. This specific type of failure does not usually occur during storage aging at high temperatures. The rate of failure of a device in this mode has been found to be proportional to the current density at which the device is operating. Thus, the rate of failure is increased by localized areas of high current density. This paper summarizes the results of an investigation to determine the mechanism of emitter softening and possible solutions. Detailed examination of the voltage-current characteristics of the emitter diode before and after failure show that the reverse characteristic of the diode changes from a predominantly avalanche mode of breakdown to one which exhibits the characteristics of field, emission or tunneling. The presence of field emission suggests that the depletion layer is being modified to the extent that localized areas have very high electric field intensities. An investigation of the cause of the field emission indicated that emitter softening is caused by the diffusion of residual metal impurities into the emitter. Such diffusion occurs most rapidly in areas of localized high temperatures. This explains why softening is found to occur at regions of high current concentration, since more heat is generated in the portion of the collector junction adjacent."
"THREE principal categories of problems confront the parts reliability engineer. Initially, it is desired to assign failure rate or reliability numbers to a parts performance under a specific set of application conditions. If there is limited or no data upon which to make a prediction having the desired confidence level, testing may be required. This leads to the problem of establishing a set of test conditions that will supply useful and valid information within a limited time and money budget. The time restrictions enforce some form of accelerated testing. Then the validity of the accelerated test conditions and the mathematical relationship of these results to those results that would have been obtained under some standard set of conditions must be justified. This paper will discuss the progress made in applying physics of failure data, experiments and concepts to establishing accelerated test conditions and to evaluating the acceleration factor to be applied in relating the results to some standard test condition. The parts to be discussed are examples of high volume production, high volume usage and consist of a lead-alumino-silicate glass capacitor, silicon passivated planar transistors, silicon alloy-junction diodes and film resistors. Specific subjects to be discussed are: 1. The development of physical models to predict the parts reaction to stress. 2. Use of the model to predict failure mechanisms and failure modes to be encountered under various stresses. 3. Selection of stresses for accelerated testing. 4. Results of accelerated testing; failure mechanisms and modes encountered and analytical techniques."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"THE nature and current theory of reverse current leakage in silicon junctions and its dependence upon surface conditions and gaseous ambients are discussed. Results of preliminary experimental studies of the rate at which reverse leakage changes as a function of the nature and pressure of gaseous ambients are presented. Two distinct modes of behavior are observed: (1) for uptake of gas by the surface, both oxygen and water vapor produce an exponential dependence of reverse leakage on time; (2) for removal of the adsorbed species, the leakage shows a power law dependence of reverse leakage on time. This behavior is clearly identified on growth and decay of a surface channel, both being reaction limited. A result which appears anomalous is the dependence of the rate of leak'age decay on the initial value of leakage, and the possible implications of this behavior are developed."
"SOME of the most common failure modes of low voltage aluminum electrolytic capacitors are the result of slow chemical and electrochemical reactions on the electrode surfaces. These reactions are an inherent property of the A1/A12O3/ electrolyte system. In this paper the relationship between particular failure modes and these electrode reactions is demonstrated and a detailed description of these reactions is provided. Analysis of 5V and 10V capacitors that failed because of excessive changes in capacitance, dissipation factor or leakage current on test showed that in many cases at least one of the following phenomena had taken place: (1) increase in anode foil capacitance accompanied by decreased ability to withstand voltage stress; (2) increase in cathode foil capacitance; (3) production of gas, probably hydrogen. In all cases the capacitor contained a glycol-borate electrolyte. These same phe'nomena were observed by heating samples of commercial etched foil in a jar of glycol-borate electrolyte at 85°C. Accompanying the capacitance increase of anode foil was a weight-loss due primarily to dissolution of the aluminum oxide dielectric. A much smaller weight loss of metal substrate also occurred. Cathode foil treated in a similar fashion suffered a capacitance increase and a weight loss of metal substrate. No gas was evolved from the anode foil during this reaction but a gas, probably hydrogen, was collected over the cathode foil. Electron micrographs showed that non-uniform attack of the anode foil took place at grain boundaries and at random sites within a grain."
"THE degradation rate of large area silicon planar diodes under reverse bias in high temperature or gamma radiation ambients has been improved by several process and structural changes. Data is presented that supports the hypothesis that the degradation mechanism is ion migration. Structural changes designed to reduce the electric field strength at the surface yield lower degradation rates. However, one cannot merely reduce the electric field by reducing the impurity density at the surface over the base region because such a high resistivity layer is more sensitive to variation in surface potential. Process changes which minimize the number of local imperfections improve the degradation rate because these imperfections can create local regions of high electric field."
"FAILURE mechanisms at surfaces and interfaces in thin film structures have been studied in thin film field effect triodes. These triodes are very suitable for the study of failures at semiconductor-insulator interfaces as the electrical characteristics strongly depend on the state of this interface. The thin film triodes have been subjected to humidity, to elevated temperature, and electrical stress. During the stress tests the failure of the main materials parameters in these devices has been studied as a function of time and stress. The main failure was a change of the threshold or pinch-off voltage in these devices, indicating that the surface potential of the semiconductor changed under stress. The field effect mobility in the semiconductor was rather constant. The capacitance decreased slightly at elevated temperatures and under electrical stress. The rate equation describing the change of the threshold voltage at elevated temperatures could be explained by assuming a desorption process. Experimentally it could be shown that water contributes to this effect. The failure of thin film field effect triodes under electrical stress was more complex. The main cause of failure appeared to be the electrical field between the gate electrode and the semiconductor. A tentative model for the failure mechanisms under electrical stress is presented which is based on a correlation of the observed failure modes to the slow relaxation characteristics of the semiconductor surface conductivity. It was discovered that the experimental devices could be classified in two types which show a distinctly different slow relaxation behavior."
"APPLICATION of the Physics of Failure approach to electron microprobe testing enables isolation of failure mechanisms at the surface, subsurface, interface, diffusion regions and junctions of planar silicon devices. Foreign element and material defects have been identified. Static and dynamic operation of circuits under test enables current and voltage distribution analyses through the device crystal."
"WHAT are the major differences between Military and Commercial reliability? The two outstanding differences noted since reliability programs were instituted on our commercial products are that 1. in the commercial field the emphasis on economic justification is greater, and 2. the spread in quality of components being sold to the same specifications is much greater for the commercial market. This paper will discuss the interrelationship of these two aspects of commercial reliability. The greatest gains have resulted in reduced costs and improved reliability through \"physics-of-failure\" studies. The major reason for this is the misconception among people charged with the responsibility for selecting the parts used in an equipment that there is no difference between component piece parts that are purchased to the same specification. The goal of the commercial physics-of-failure program is to find the significant difference between parts which satisfy the basic specification, and to determine the optimum component for use in the particular application. Examples of diode, resistor, and capacitor problems solved using the same general technique, will be discussed, and the reasons for, and the consequences of, the differences highlighted. The choice of the phrase \"physics of failure\" is unfortunate because it gives the connotation that the major area of effort is concerned with the autopsies on failed components. The same techniques can and have been applied to curative and preventative areas as well (screening tests and vendor selection). The applications of physics to screening of components and vendor selection will be discussed."
"THIS paper describes a program to develop a high-ohms-per-square tantalum, thin film resistor. Several techniques of physics of failure were used. Among these was a random balance experiment using an accelerated life test as the measure of device reliability. A physics of failure analysis on failed items resulted in the rejection of several of the materials combinations. As a result, the expected life of the basic device was increased by a factor of over one hundred."
"CONSTRUCTION of novel devices for space-age missions requires a new approach to the assessment of reliability of such devices and their components. The method suggested in this paper describes performance characteristics and failure mechanisms of a device in probabilistic terms. Environmental and stress conditions applicable to the device, and its performance and strength characteristics, are expressed in the form of multidimensional probability distributions. By joint evaluation of these probability distributions, a quantitative estimate of the reliability of the device can be obtained."
"THE PHYSICS OF FAILURE effort must bring about a thorough understanding of the causes of device malfunction which then must be used to generate changes in the overall production and control techniques. Texas Instruments Failure Analysis Laboratory has developed a generalized routine for transistor failure analysis and is developing one for integrated microelectronic circuits. The resulting information is relayed to other responsible groups to attempt to prevent recurrence. Principal failure modes and analysis techniques are illustrated by charts."
"BY ELECTRON and optical microscopic techniques, the precipitation out of the original solid solution of a phase based on Ni3Al has been observed in the metal films condensed from the alloy Evanohm. A precipitation clustering of solute atoms causes a slight increase in the film resistivity. This is followed by a large decrease in resistivity as the solute content of the solvent or matrix is depleted by the growth of the solute rich precipitates. The rate of these processes has been observed to depend on the thickness of the film, with the thinnest films aging fastest. The oxidation of these films has been studied using electron microscopy to identify the reaction and using a quartz crystal microbalance to determine the reaction kinetics. Prior to precipitation, a uniform Cr2O3 oxide layer grows with a limiting thickness, saturating form of kinetics. This is typical of a case where a retarding electric field is created in the oxide layer by the migration of the charged species which eventually halts the diffusion or oxidation process. Later, after clustering and precipitati6n has occurred, a particulate oxide identified as NiO grows with kinetics proportional to the cube of time. This particulate oxide grows in the solute-depleted portion of the matrix."
"BREAKDOWN was investigated on capacitors produced by vacuum deposition on glass slides. Dielectric thickness varied from 1000 to 10,000 Å and the aluminum electrodes were a few hundred angstroms thick. Breakdown events were not shorting, punching an opening through dielectric and electrodes. Single holes are produced below a voltage limit, while above the limit breakdowns destroy large areas. The voltage versus time oscillograms of these two events are different. Rate of breakdown events increases rapidly with voltage. On application of a certain voltage, breakdown events continue for some time at a decreasing rate. Increase of humidity and decrease of the external resistance in series with the capacitor increase considerably the frequency of breakdown events. The initial capacitance Co decreases to C due to breakdowns on the application of voltage, V. C/Co versus V curves, with series resistor as a parameter, present the breakdown properties of the capacitor. Based on these curves suggestions are made for quantitative data on the dielectric strength of capacitors with non-shorting breakdown events. Single hole breakdown is promoted by the appearance of hot, conducting channels occurring in the dielectric at flaws, due to thermal instability. The charge of the capacitor discharges through such a channel and the energy of the capacitor evaporates material and produces the hole, often explosively."
"THIS paper describes further studies of galvano-diffusion phenomena as first reported at the 1963 Failure Mechanism Symposium. It has been found that a voltage is generated between the metal electrodes of a thin film metal-dielectric-metal sandwich. A necessary requirement for the phenomenon is ionic diffusion through the dielectric accompanied by an oxidation of one of the metal films. The ionic diffusion is characterized by an activation energy which is characteristic of the dielectric material. The process involves the diffusion of metal ions through the dielectric which then results in a chemical reaction. The electrical circuit is completed by an external load resistor which provides a path for electron flow. It has beeb possible to experimentally correlate the rate of consumption of metal ions (increase in dielectric thickness) with the integrated electron flow through the load resistor. This was accomplished by recording both capacitance and current flow as a function of time while the structure was held at a constant elevated temperature. The test vehicle has consisted primarily of Al-A12O3-Au devices. In these experiments, the Au film acts as an oxygen collector while the Al film is the electrode that is oxidized. Tests have been performed to determine the effect of electrode thickness (both Au and Al) and dielectric thickness on the diffusion rate. The theoretical model that has been proposed and which agrees qualitatively with experiment can be used to predict the life of electronic devices that are susceptible to this phenomenon."
"AN ANALYTICAL technique for failure analyses on complex interconnected integrated circuits has been developed by employing the selective reaction of certain chemical components with metal interconnections. This technique has proven to be particularly useful in investigating failure due to the following: a. Pinholes in metal-oxide-semiconductor capacitors b. Poor or marginal contact of metal to silicon substrate c. Pinholes or weaknesses in the oxide under metalized areas d. Microscopic breaks in interconnections. The experimental approach is based on the concept of reacting the interconnection metal with an anion which is attracted to electropositive regions and remains unreacted due to repulsion over electronegative metal regions. Illustrations are presented herein consisting of anion reaction patterns on interconnected circuits showing the usefulness of this technique in the determination of poor or marginal capacitors, contacts and interconnections."
"THE operating properties of semiconductor devices utilizing minority carrier phenomena are strongly influenced by very low concentrations of chemical impurities and structural defects that act as charge carrier recombination centers. The time variation of the concentration of such impurities and defects affects the reliability of highly reliable devices. The temporal change in the relative concentrations of the electronic states arising from these imperfections may be determined from the measurement of such parameters as charge carrier lifetime, reverse leakage current, and the capacity-voltage characteristics of a p-n junction device. This paper will treat a detailed study of the net ionized impurity concentration, NA - ND, obtained from the capacity-voltage measurements of silicon rectifiers as a function of stress temperature and applied reverse voltage for times in excess 10,000 hours. The variation of the capacity-voltage characteristic with time is attributed to changes in both bulk and surface effects, which may be separately identified. Surface effects are related to the adsorption during stress of a negative charge on the region where the depletion layer of the reverse-biased junction intersects the surface, and the adsorption of a positive charge on the surface of the base region beyond the depletion layer. The concentration of surface charge required to account for the observed change in junction capacity is approximately 6.5 × 1010 cm-<sub>2</sub?, resulting in an apparent change of NA - ND of about 2%. Variations in NA - ND with stress time of as much as 20% have been observed."
"IN the manufacture of semiconductor integrated circuits certain undesirable atoms or ions can remain on or in the silicon wafer or the passivating SiO2 layer. These. originate in the chemical and physical operations such as lapping, polishing, photolithographic etching, diffusions and treatments necessary for the formation of metal contacts and interconnections for the devices. Many of these unwanted impurities are capable of degrading device performance under certain circumstances and causing the ultimate failure of the devices. For example, high concentrations of phosphorus in SiO2 layers will result in the lowering of its dielectric strength. (At the same time the phosphorus can also act as a getter for other undesirable impurities so an impurity can be both undesirahle or desirable depending on the type of device being made.) It is often difficult to attribute failures in semiconductors (other than simple mechanical or electrical ones) to any certain causes. Yet, it appears that this class of failures is caused by migration of certain trace chemical species or, perhaps, by imperfections in the crystal or oxide structures or by combinations of these mechanisms. Since the number of atoms or molecules responsible for a failure need not be very large, radioactive tracers offer a general method for studying these kinds of failures. Thus far, the amount of residue left behind the radioactively tagged C14H3OH, H2S35O4, NaCr51O4 and HCl36 has been investigated."
"High power four-layer diodes which failed during life tests were investigated in order to determine the reasons for their failure. The studies of the silicon chips have shown that the reliability of the diode can be limited by four failure mechanisms: nonuniform turn-on, hot spot development, thermal fatigue, and surface breakdown. Diode burn-out which occurs after the first few pulses at high current gives evidence of nonuniform turn-on of the diode resulting in local heating during a single pulse. The local heat can reach temparatures at which silicon and contact metal alloy further, finally short-circuiting the device. Nonuniform turn-on, usually caused by crystal defects, can be minimized by an appropriate design of the shorted emitter and proper triggering of the device. When the damage of the diode by local melting of the silicon metal alloy occurs after many pulses (of the order of 103 or more) at appropriate repetition rates it indicates the slow build-up of a hot spot and a subsequent burn-out. These hot spots are formed by lateral thermal instability. Two diode modifications were investigated with respect to hot spot build-up. The development of hot spots can be minimized by proper mounting of the silicon chip. Another failure mode shows a gradual deterioration of the device characteristics until the center junction is finally short-circuited without melting the silicon metal alloy. It can be speculated that the reason for this type of failure is either thermal fatigue or surface damage."
"THIs paper discusses two different failure modes (bulk failure and surface failure) which have been observed on double diffused silicon n-p-n mesa transistors. (a) In the presence of bare copper in an oxygen free ambient, power aging degrades the emitter parameters and gain. Only partial recovery can be achieved by etching into the bulk silicon or by heating the device at 300°C (bulk failure). (b) In gold plated and/or oxygen backfilled cans, soft, loopy reverse junction characteristics develop under both temperature and power agings, first on the collector and later on the emitter. Both junctions. recover completely upon opening the can and drying the transistor surface (surface failure). Surface failure is caused by water adsorption over the surface of the silicon wafer. Experimental evidence, including aging experiments in atomic hydrogen, is presented to demonstrate that the bulk failure is caused by copper contamination in the bulk silicon. Copper is transferred from the can to the wafer via a volatile hydride. It diffuses into the silicon and becomes electrically active during power aging. Qualitative explanations are offered for both failure modes. Surface failure is due to surface states introduced by the adsorbed water and/or ionic conduction. In order to explain bulk failure, the solubility and precipitation of copper is examined over the transistor profile and the effect of field on the migration of copper in silicon is taken into account."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"EXPERIMENTAL investigations of surface breakdown in planar p-n junctions utilizing the technique of photoscanning are reported. A reduction in device breakdown voltage upon illumination of small areas of the oxide layer close to the p-n junction has been observed. The results suggest conclusions about failure mechanisms in oxide covered silicon p-n junctions and possible methods to prevent them. A model is presented which describes the variation of the break-down voltage by dividing the space charge layer near the interface into two regions: an ionization region containing a high electric field, and a trapping region. It is assumed that the electrons generated by the illumination change the charge state of the traps in such a way that the electric field within the ionization region is increased. The nature of the traps is not known, but further investigations are planned to elucidate details of the model."
"THE objectives, approach and current status of the Reliability Physics Program at RADC are summarized in this paper. Limitations and potential contributions of failure mechanism studies in predicting and measuring the reliability of electron devices is assessed. The experimental and analytical complexity of such studies is recognized, but the necessity for augmenting any major military reliability program with efforts of this type is maintained."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes measurements and theoretical developments on the far sidelobe or backlobe region of three basic antenna types:the horn antenna, the parabolic reflector antenna and the Luneberg lens antenna. The application is for RFI reduction with emphasis on the use of radar absorber materials. A technique for design of nulls in the Fresnel Zone of an aperture antenna is described and numerical examples represented. This technique has potential RFI application."
"Methods are presented for computing the distance required between transmitters with co-channel frequency assignments so that interference between them may be held below a specified level. Separate consideration is given to utilization probabilities resulting from communications traffic volume and to factors which are a function of the transmission medium and equipment characteristics. A graphical-analytic method is developed which reduces the usual path attenuation vs distance charts to normalized form. This permits rapid translation of the prescribed path attenuation into distance for any combination of antenna heights and wavelength in the line-of-sight region. The normalized charts also facilitate establishment of a probability, due to lobing, that path attenuation in a given region will be above or below a specified value when the transmitters or receivers are in motion. The basic methods are developed for distances well within the line-of-sight region, but special consideration also is given to distances near the horizon where the usual approximations do not apply."
"The constraints of assignment of channels to UHF TV stations are discussed, taking into account the radiated signal characteristics, the various undesired responses of receivers to signals on other than the channel to which they are tuned and effects of receiver local oscillator radiation. These \"taboos\" affect the assignment of many other channels for each assigned channel, due to the geographical separation requirements associated with the respective taboos. The basis for each taboo, the mileage separation required and the effects on assignment planning are discussed."
"A major problem of superheterodyne receivers is receiver response to undesired frequencies. The magnitude of the spurious response, or the spurious rejection, is computed by assuming that the mixer characteristic is the theoretical exponential form. It is shown that the spurious rejection increases with increased local oscillator power, decreases with increased desired signal power and increases with larger, harmonically derived, spurious responses."
"This paper considers the effects (relative to conventional design) of microminiaturization on the mutual compatibility among various portions of systems. It discusses the major factors involved, such as power levels, sizes of radiators and pick-ups, spacings among them and function trends toward solid-state switching and greater use of digital operations. From these, compatibility relationships are developed, and the relative severity of the compatibility problem is estimated. Problems of corrective measures to enhance electrocompatibility are discussed, such as common use of heat paths as electromagnetic shields, filters utilizing effective or apparent inductance from semiconductor functions, and shielding effectiveness of flat cables and microminiature connectors. The treatment of material in the paper is not intended to be exhaustive but to high-light the major problem areas and to stimulate further thought. Conclusions are that RF susceptibility to magnetic fields is reduced, but susceptibility to electric fields is increased with respect to conventional construction. The larger parasitic parameters of the Semiconductor Integrated Circuits (SCIC) approach will degrade electro-compatibility. An anticipated trend toward digitized circuits will also degrade electrocompatibility. The inflexibility in modification of microcircuits requires that electro-compatibility be considered in very early stages of design. Filtering techniques are presently unsatisfactory due to lack of adequate inductance elements."
"The theory of a new, ceramic lowpass filter, highly effective at very high frequencies, is discussed. Its excellent performance is based on simulation of the skin effect whereby the VHF, UHF and microwave currents are forced along a thin, electrically permeable resistive film deposited inside a high-ϵ dielectric tube while a large dc current may flow through the coaxial conductor. Theory and experiment are in excellent agreement. In several respects these filters are better than cascaded filters (ferrites and dielectrics combined) which were, thus far, considered the best available. The simulated-skin-effect filter shows great promise of becoming a significant means in combatting conducted electromagnetic interference."
"A lossy coaxial filter has been developed to protect electroexplosive devices from accidental detonation by stray high-power RF fields. The characteristics of a coaxial transmission line, filled with dielectromagnetic material, are analyzed in terms of various proposed filter configurations. The design concept for the prototype filter is chosen so as to provide a maximum stop-band attenuation. Measured results are presented to show that the filter provides an insertion loss of about 90 db from 5 Mc to at least 10 kMc. Furthermore, it is shown that the use of a lossy filter guarantees a minimum value of insertion loss regardless of the terminating impedances."
"The colocation of high-power communication transmitters and sensitive receivers at a common site frequently causes radio frequency interference due to the generation of spurious intermodulation frequencies in the receiver mixer. These spurious frequencies result from the mixing of the transmitter frequencies with each other and with the receiver local oscillator in the receiver mixer. The problem treated in this paper is that of obtaining an analytical method of predicting the amplitudes of these spurious intermodulation frequencies having been given the amplitude of each of the frequencies at the mixer input."
"The impulse response characteristics of six wide bandpass amplifiers were compared. Each amplifier was a cascade of six single-tuned stages of maximally-flat amplitude, synchronous-tuned or flat-delay types. All of the amplifiers had the same midband gain, so that the bandwidths were in proportion to the gainbandwidth factor of the tuning scheme employed. The flat-delay amplifiers exhibited faster recovery from impulsive excitation than either the maximally-flat amplitude amplifiers with their greater 3-db bandwidths, or the synchronoustuned amplifier with its greater stage damping. A brief discussion of amplifier design is included."
"The high density of electrical and electronic equipment in modern weapon systems, the extension of performance limits of both the equipment and the weapon systems and growth in complexity and quantity of systems have greatly aggravated the problem of insuring electromagnetic compatibility. Electromagnetic incompatibility can exist as soon as two or more of the most minor elements of the system are placed in a common environment, and the probability of incompatibility increases each time a new element is added. The typical weapon system is so complex, and has such intricate interrelations among its elements and with other systems, that minor electromagnetic incompatibilities can cause major malfunctions or loss of reliability. The weapon system manager and design engineer must establish and enforce detailed controls of electromagnetic compatibi I ity throughout the development program to insure that the weapon system can accomplish its intended mission."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The susceptibility of radar search antennas to radio-frequency interference (RFI) is determined to a great extent by the minor lobe structure. The use of detailed, three-dimensional patterns to predict RFI is not practical because the fine structure of the antenna pattern changes with frequency, range in the Fresnel zone, and site effects. Statistical gain studies have shown that the characteristics of individual antennas and the mutual gain characteristics of two Interfering antennas can be described with Gaussian curves. The statistical description Is Independent of in-band frequency variations and range changes (including Fresnel zone), but site effects cause small changes in the median gain."
"The majority of the work on the measurement of spurious responses in receivers done up to now is based upon the measurement of the sensitivity of all spurious responses for each of a few (usually three) tuned frequencies within the tuning range of any one receiver or major radio frequency head. These responses have been identified as the products of the nonlinear mixing of the incoming and local oscillator signals, most often in the mixer. Very little has been said about how the sensitivity of these responses varies with tuned frequency except to assume that the worst response of a kind found applies for all such responses. This paper examines the mechanisms involved in their generation and defines the factors upon which their sensitivity depends. These are basically the coefficients of the nonlinear equation representing the characteristics of the mixer and the radio frequency selectivity preceding the mixer. By use of a selective testing method, these two factors can be separated. Once this has been done, the total spurious response characteristic of the receiver is implied and the whole tuned frequency-spurious response frequency matrix can be filled in with reasonable accuracy. This selective testing method is certainly more productive of information per unit test than the method which is the present standard for such tests. However, the proposed method has not been adequately tested as yet, and it is hoped that this paper will result in such tests."
"The shielding effectiveness of conductive glass at low and intermediate frequencies (100 kc to 1,000 Mc) was investigated. A mathematical model was used to describe the absorption and reflection. This model is based on a film applied to the glass substrate which represents a barrier with finite thickness and relative conductivity. Experimental data agreed well with theoretical calculations. Coated glass exhibits a permeability similar to that of free space, so that low-impedance attenuation is limited to the conductivity of the film. The analysis is primarily concerned with high-impedance, near-field incident waves. Transmission in the visible spectrum was also determined for several 4-by 4-inch conductive glass samples which vary in surface resistance from 9 to 125 ohms/square. Larger samples (8 by 3 feet) of conductive glass were also investigated."
"Although several proprietory finishes have been available for aluminum and magnesium protection from corrosion, the electrical properties at radio frequencies have never been sufficiently defined. In order to evaluate the relative merits of such finishes for aluminum and magnesium, a test program was established. Fixtures were designed to measure bonding impedance from dc to RF, and to evaluate shielding efficiency and insertion loss from gaskets used in joint interfaces. Marked differences in performance were observed between the radio frequency shielding obtained at radio frequencies and the bonding impedance measurements, indicating that the commonly used criterion of dc or RF bonding impedance is not sufficiently sensitive to provide good control of conductive coatings. Corrosion tests indicated several finishes would be acceptable from both the corrosion and electrical viewpoint."
"Transmitter power is a fundamental parameter with respect to the performance of electromagnetic equipment, determining the strength of signals that may be either desired or undesired at particular receivers. The rational assignment of power output to transmitters for which this is a controllable variable is one method of enhancing compatibility in congested electromagnetic environments. It is shown here that the power assignment problem can be formulated mathematically as a linear programming problem. Efficient algorithms for obtaining optimum solutions to such problems are known; with computer implementation systems composed of many transmitters and receivers can be treated. A small-scale field test in which communication equipment was operated in accordance with the concept of optimum power assignment by linear programming has confirmed the basic validity of the approach."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Science, the world over, is randomly pushing the frontiers of electromagnetic incompatibility into all disciplines with no known attempt being made to coordinate this work or evaluate what is happening. The result is an extending rash of technical side-effects, many entirely unexpected, in an increasing number of disciplines and environments. These are beginning to plague both originators and users and to present serious problems to management. With new sources of electromagnetic and electrostatic energy now often exceeding both natural and man-made thresholds, these technical side-effects are beginning to show up as mutations in biological fields, changes in chemical solutions, and metallurgy reacting to environments not in the textbooks. The military is already studying these technical side-effects which it calls radiation hazards, or RAD HAZ. But there are also nontechnical side-effects beginning to show up in the three \"Ls,\" Legal, Labor and Legislative, which are of more concern to management than to technical personnel. It is these three which are to be discussed in this paper."
"The mutual interference chart (MIC) gives the compatibility that exists between the channels of a radio set. This property of the chart is used to determine classes of frequencies that are compatible (in the sense of freedom from mutual interference) with given transmitting or receiving frequencies. The approach is based on the elementary theory of classes. It is shown that from the chart two categories of fundamental classes can be defined: those classes that contain undesired frequencies giving rise to interference in the presence of a given desired frequency and those classes that contain desired frequencies which in the presence of a given undesired frequency are subject to interference. The classes of compatible frequencies resulting from these definitions are determined for simple circuits containing one or more duplex channel terminals in various configurations. A set of classes characterizes each circuit; if the set is solved, it leads to classes of interference free frequencies for it. Some results obtained in the extension of the theory to more complex circuits are briefly mentioned. The logical extension of the results, surprisingly, lead to a relative simple solution of the problem of assignment."
"The basic mechanism of electromagnetic interference generated by automotive ignition systems and the nature of this interference are discussed. Various methods of ignition interference suppression are reviewed. The mechanism of interference suppression by ferrite core ignition cable is explained from the magnetic core loss mechanism point of view."
"This paper describes the design and construction of a low-frequency line impedance stabilization network with reliable stabilizing properties and high-power handling capacity, usuable from 15 kc to 10 Mc. The design was initiated to meet the need to investigate low-frequency conducted radio interference. Its design, characteristics, construction, and operation are discussed."
"A method of reducing the radio frequency interference due to radiation at spurious frequencies by utilizing the frequency sensitivity of grating reflectors is examined. A technique is presented whereby the attenuation in a radial wedge waveguide operating beyond cutoff may be calculated."
"A new equipment that measures multimode spurious emissions in waveguide has been developed. The measurement is performed by averaging the power coupled by a large number of short electric-field probes located on the periphery of an enlarged section of waveguide. The equipment has been used to measure multimode power in S-band waveguide at frequencies between 3 and 10 Gc with an accuracy of ±1 db. A smaller equipment has also been developed with a measurement accuracy of ±3 db up to 15 Gc."
"The problem of search with instruments having systematic error is examined and found to be a function of the logarithmic spiral. The case of rectangular constrictions of the search pattern is explored. Extremely simple methods of computing the sought location are disclosed. Description is in terms of locating a transmitting source."
"This paper is concerned with the presentation of an algorithm for the construction and display of a mutual interference chart of any size from a list of interference lines belonging to any paired transmitter and receiver. Such charts have found use in procedures for assignment of noninterfering frequencies in a communication network. This algorithm is primarily concerned with the interpretation and conversion of lines of interference, having an arbitrary width, from a continuous frequency space to a discrete integer space represented by a mutual interference chart. The widths of the interference lines are related to equipment frequency guardbands. The discrete integer space is related to equipment channel and band numbers. The method of construction is proved to be consistent with respect to element value assignments."
"Presently, modeling techniques have been established for radio frequency interference prediction in search radars. Modeling techniques for the special group of radars, classified as tracking radars, are relatively new and require further development before an adequate prediction model can be realized. The nature and aspect of a tracking radar prediction model depends upon the various forms of degradation that the system experiences in the presence of an interference environment. This degradation is dependent upon the functional mode of operation, search, acquisition, and track. The corresponding prediction techniques are also dependent upon these functional modes. This paper presents the results of an analysis to determine the effects of interference on tracking radars and to derive methods for designing mathematical models that can be used for predicting the effects."
"The concept of a bond strap is discussed along with the significant parameters involved in its design. A logical approach to design is given along with formulas that may be used to approximate the bond parameters. Several calculations are included to show orders of magnitude that may be expected for R, L, and C, in addition to impedance, at frequencies up to 1 Gc. A summary table shows the effects of increases in basic parameter values versus dimensional variations."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An experimental device has been developed which exhibits the characteristics of a vertical seismometer with a long natural period, the experimental device having demonstrated periods to 20 seconds. The device achieves long-period seismometer action through magnetic field support of the mass and electronic feedback. With suitable device parameters the performance equations will be of the same form as those of a conventional inertial seismometer, the natural period and damping being functions of an amplifier gain. There are other possible uses of the device principles, one being the construction of a stable table."
"A description is given of a sampling oscilloscope technique in which the sampling pulse recurrence rate is not in any way synchronized with the signal waveform. The technique eliminates the need for a signal channel delay line. An experimental system which employs only semiconductor devices is described, and experimental data demonstrating the practicality of the system is presented."
"An instrument which is well suited for use in rocket and satellite work and is capable of measuring the ion composition of the upper atmosphere is described. The theory of operation of a Paul-type mass spectrometer is presented. A system consisting of a Paul mass spectrometer and an electron-multiplier type detector, capable of measuring ion composition, is then described. The electronic system, which produces the RF and dc potentials required by the Paul mass spectrometer and measures the current output of the electron multiplier is described."
"This report describes a system now in operation for the purpose of calibrating microwave noise sources at three selected frequencies in the range 8.2 to 12.4 Gc. Included are a discussion of the reference standard noise source, an error analysis of the standard source and the comparison system, and evidence of system performance. Results of measurements indicate that the excess noise ratio of a specific commercial argon filled noise source is 15.6 db at 9.8 Gc. A calibration service is now available for tube-in-mount noise sources at the three selected frequencies 9.0 Gc, 9.8 Gc, and 11.2 Gc."
"A new method of measuring voltages across cavity gaps and deducing the cavity's parallel resistance is discussed. The method is based on velocity modulation of a beam of monoenergetic charged particles (electrons) from a radioactive source. The change in the line spectra of an energy-selective particle detector (a semiconductor detector), when the particles pass through the gap, is used for calculating the cavity gap voltage. Combination with a measurement of the power dissipated in the cavity gives the value of the parallel resistance. A description is given of a practical arrangement together with experimental results."
"An attenuator calibration system is described consisting of a waveguide-beyond-cutoff attenuator operating at 31.25 Mc and electronic equipment designed for parallel-substitution, series-substitution, and heterodyne measurements. Radio-frequency power is supplied by a crystal-controlled signal generator, stabilized so that variations in the power output do not exceed 0.001 db per hour. Measurements of a 10-db step made by the standard attenuator, and by two other methods, agree to within 0.001 db. A number of possible sources of error are examined including nonlinearity in microwave mixers."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Nonlinear resistances possess dynamic resistances that can be electrically varied over a range of many orders of magnitude. In this respect, they are far more nonlinear than contemporary nonlinear reactances. Some general criteria for obtaining maximum voltage tunability are discussed and several networks possessing zero-phase frequencies are presented for possible use in wide-range voltage-tunable resistor-capacitor (RC) networks."
"An instrument capable of measuring leakage current of transistors while the trarisistor remains in the circuit was developed. This instrument gives an accurate leakage current measurement in a large variety of circuits as well as being simple to operate, lightweight, battery powered, and portable for use in the field. This was accomplished by the measurement of the transistor leakage current ICBX, which is the collector current when both the collector and emitter junctions of the transistor are reverse biased. This particular leakage current was chosen because it is nearly independent of the gain parameters of the transistor and a very close approximation to the fundamental leakage current ICBO. The present instrument measures leakage currents as low as 1 µa with a collector load resistance down to 500 Ω. At present, an accurate instrument is not commercially available for measuring transistor leakage current in the circuit. The results presented in this paper indicate a method for adding the capability of measuring in-circuit transistor leakage current to future transistor testers."
"Most of the coaxial type bolometer mounts in current use employ a pair of bolometer elements which are connected in series for the dc or audio-frequency bias powers, and in parallel at radio or microwave frequencies. In the frequency range where these techniques are most often employed, the dc-RF substitution error has been generally believed to be negligible. It is quite possible, however, for this to be true of the elements individually, and yet fail to be true of a pair of these elements as used in a typical coaxial mount. If only the sum of the resistances of the two elements is maintained at a constant value, and if the resistance division between the two elements changes with the application of RF power, an error is introduced which is given by the equation: e = [(1/γb)-(1/γa)]Δr, where γa and γb are the \"ohms per milliwatt\" coefficients of the two bolometer elements, and γr is the shift in resistance division. An experimental study indicates that, in the existing state-of-the-art, this error may be ignored in many applications but is large enough to be important in others, particularly at the higher power levels."
"A new high-speed method of determining the capacitance and a quantity which the writers call the pulse series resistance (PSR) of an unknown capacitor is presented. The unknown capacitor is assumed to consist of an ideal capacitor and a series resistor. The test circuit consists of a low-impedance driver, a low-loss coupling capacitor, and a wide-band high-input/low-output impedance video-type amplifier. The unknown capacitor is placed in a negative feedback loop of this amplifier. The input waveform is a trapezoid. The output waveform contains information that is indicative of the capacitance and PSR of the unknown capacitor. The information is obtained by measuring two voltages, one of which is completely independent of the other. Capacitors were measured from approximately 2 pf to 2 μf with an accuracy of ±5 per cent. The PSR was not available for capacitors less than 100 pF because of test-circuit limitations. The capacitance and PSR of an unknown capacitor could be made available within 500 μsec with modern voltage-measuring and calculating techniques."
"The modulated subcarrier technique of attenuation measurement offers an accurate and convenient means of calibrating rotary vane attenuators. The technique also presents the possibility of being extended to other types of attenuation measurement. This paper gives an analysis of the output of the microwave detector, assuming it is completely linear; an error analysis of the technique; and a comparison of the technique with the 30-Mc IF substitution technique of attenuation measurement."
"A precision, low-noise, highly sensitive, synchronous RF detector is described that permits simultaneous phase and level nulling in complex insertion ratio measuring systems. This insertion ratio is a measure of both the phase shift and magnitude change produced by a network when inserted in a transmission path."
"A system for measuring the gain and phase-shift properties of an amplifier with CW input and a pulsed output is presented. It uses commercially available components in simple circuitry and is free from balanced or calibrated detectors and amplifiers. It is readily automated. Specific equipment used to measure phase characteristics of a 15-kw pulsed traveling-wave tube in the 5.3- to 8.0-gigacycle band is described. Phase differences of 0.1° are easily resolved."
"New accuracy standards are proposed for phase-shifting transformers generally applied in polyphase circuits for var (reactive volt-amperes) measurement. Limiting values of ratio correction factor (RCF) and phase angle defect (PD) are given for three proposed standard accuracy levels, namely, 0.3 per cent, 0.6 per cent, and 1.2 per cent. These levels represent the maximum error in var measurement owing to the phase-shifting transformer. The limiting values appear as circle diagrams. The proposals bring the standards up to the same level of development as those for instrument current and potential transformers."
"Magnetic null-balance and a unique magnetic method of radio-frequency modulation combine to relate an electrical output precisely to the displacement of a small permanent magnet probe. The magnetic null-balance eliminates undesirable effects of magnetic material characteristics, and the use of a radio-frequency carrier provides large stabilizing gain with simple circuitry. The electrical analog output is derived by demodulation and filtering so that it contains only the frequency components of the measured displacement. Precise linearity between the displacement and the output is insured by the large amount of over-all dc negative feedback and by adherence to geometrical criteria developed for the displacement sensor. Static and dynamic tests of several of the measuring systems designed to produce 0-4 ma signals in response to 0-0.100-inch displacements have shown gratifyingly small errors, verifying the design expectations."
"Present-day methods for the measurement and telemetering of active power and reactive volt-amperes (var) are, in general, based upon the zero-frequency term produced by the multiplication of two signals corresponding to the line voltage and the line current. Although these methods are usually satisfactory for local metering, various problems are presented when telemetering over long lines is considered. This paper suggests the use of the double-line-frequency term which is also produced by this multiplication. With suitable phase sensitive rectification this term can be made to indicate power, var and volt-amperes (VA) continuously and simultaneously on three meters, the indicating signals being suitable for accurate analog-to-digital conversion for telemetering over long distances. First experimental results show an accuracy of one per cent for a wide range of resistive and reactive loads, and for a voltage variation of 40 per cent. A discussion of factors affecting the accuracy of the method is given in the Appendix."
"The compensated current comparator combines in one device the high ratio accuracy of the three winding ratio transformer or current comparator with the energy-transfer properties of a normal current transformer. Its ratio error is very small and so independent of the energy-transfer function that it can be operated at very high burden. Even negative burdens may be imposed, and, when operated in this mode, the device fulfils the functions of a high-current primary supply transformer. As such, it is highly suited to in situ calibrations in industry. Construction details of a multiratio compensated current comparator, covering all normally encountered ratios from 5/5 to 1200/5, are given. Its ratio accuracy, for burdens up to 750 va, is better than five parts per million. A test set, for use in calibrating current transformers up to errors of one per cent and 100 minutes, is also described. The set employs three conductance and three capacitance decades, with a three-position range switch, and is direct reading."
"The relative advantages of the use of a negative-feedback operational amplifier as an electrometer amplifier are investigated. This investigation was made because of the need for a detection system with a frequency response from dc to 20 kc. A theoretical analysis of the compensation circuits used to obtain extended frequency response is given. This analysis indicates a dependence of the compensation networks upon the external capacitive loading. Important practical considerations are given. An expression is derived that gives the compensation network parameters as well as the frequency response in terms of absolute gain of the amplifier."
"The ratio of two currents in function of any third quantity may be measured directly with the aid of pulse techniques. Sample pulses are taken from both currents by the same gating process while the duty cycle is changed in order to keep the time average of the pulsed denominator current constant. The time average of the numerator current is then proportional to the ratio of both currents. This principle is extremely useful for the investigation of electron devices when a large-signal parameter is displayed as a function of the operating point or of another variable. This paper describes two applications, the measurement of anode current/screen-grid current ratio as a function of control-grid voltage and that of the large-signal amplification factor as a function of emitter current in transistors."
"A graphical technique has been developed to allow the determination of the applicability of the Gaddy pulse-comparison system to the measurement of picosecond pulse characteristics. This paper presents the development of this graphical technique and its application to several pulse shapes. Experimental results are given which illustrate the usefulness of the graphical technique for the determination of applicability. The limitations of the system are discussed and its major area of usefulness is mentioned."
"Earlier descriptions of methods for providing corrections to be applied to a Kelvin-Varley voltage divider can be misconstrued, particularly as the reasons for applying the corrections in the manner outlined are not obvious. The new method removes any ambiguity and presents the theoretical reasons leading to the procedure which may be carried as far as is justified by the instrument. The magnitude of the terms being neglected may be estimated at any stage, to serve as a guide to the reliability of the corrected data. Techniques of calibrating a divider, which do not require internal connections to the instrument, are also presented."
"A systematic analysis of the errors inherent in the application of a resistance voltage divider to the measurement of high voltages is presented. The effects of potentiometer errors, leakage errors, and rod resistance are considered in turn. A newly developed high accuracy volt box providing output voltages of 0.5 v, 1.0 v, and 1.5 v for all input voltages ranging from 1.5 to 1600 v in steps of 0.5 v is then described."
"In order to eliminate the light shifts and to increase the stability of gas-cell atomic clocks using optical pumping of the alkali atoms, the detection of a microwave pulse-induced coherent emission is used as the correction signal to lock a crystal oscillator to the atomic transition. Also, the line width of the O-O hyperfine transition is artificially narrowed by subjecting the atoms in the cell to two phase-coherent microwave pulses. In this case the resonance line has a width characteristic of the pulse-repetition frequency which can be made several times smaller than the natural line width in the cell. Proper timing of the sequence of microwave pulses and light pulses for optical pumping is necessary to conserve phase coherence and to obtain a well-defined Ramsey pattern. Results of the tests on a laboratory model using Rubidium-87 atoms show the elimination of the light shifts and an improvement of the short-term stability of the crystal oscillator by one order of magnitude."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problem of measuring a time interval using a crystal oscillator as a time base is discussed. A statistical analysis is made of the free-running oscillator and gated counter when the time interval to be measured is repetitive. Using the equivalent circuit of a quartz crystal, the difficulties involved in using a pulsed crystal oscillator as a time base are investigated. A method is described to measure, at a random instant, the instantaneous phase of a free-running oscillator and use this information as the last significant figure in a time interval or pulse delay method. The method consists of sensing the coincidence between oppositely-traveling pulses on a delay line. A digital-delay generator was constructed using this technique. The accuracy of the delay was measured as ±0.01 us ±crystal time-base accuracy. The construction and testing of this device is discussed."
"A broad-band completely reciprocal transmission path across the Atlantic was made available for the first time by the Telstar I satellite. In August, 1962, the U. S. Naval Observatory (USNO) and the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) cooperated in an experiment using the satellite to relate the master clocks at the USNO, and the Royal Greenwich Observatory (RGO) at Herstmonceux, U. K. Pulsed signals, 5 μs long, at the rate of ten per second were transmitted simultaneously over the satellite circuit from the ground stations at Andover, Me. and Goonhilly Downs, Cornwall, U. K. The time difference between received and transmitted pulses was measured at each station and from these results the relative setting of the station clocks was obtained directly. In the final experiment on August 27th, the Goonhilly clock was found to be 72.6±0.8 μs ahead of Andover. The internal consistency of the results was checked by comparing the measured time delays of the signals over whole or part of the path with the value calculated from the satellite ephemeris, based entirely on Minitrack observations. The measured time delays were consistent to ±1 μs and did not differ from the ephemeris by more than 6 μs, equivalent to 1 km error in range. The time synchronization between the ground stations was extended to the observatory clocks by low-frequency ground-wave signals propagating with known velocities."
"A bright and monochromatic radiation from an optical maser can be used as a stable standard of wavelength, when plane mirrors in the maser are automatically controlled so that the oscillation frequency can be kept very close to the center of the atomic line. The separation of mirrors is modulated at a low frequency with a small amplitude. The fundamental-, the second-harmonic, and the third-harmonic components of the modulation frequency in the light output give correction signals for the tilt of mirrors, the power level of excitation, and the separation of mirrors. The photobeat between two independently-stabilized masers of 1.15 microns filled with Ne20 and Ne22, respectively, has been observed. The observed fluctuation of beat frequencies shows a Gaussian distribution, and no systematic frequency drift has been found. It is found that the frequency of each maser stays within several parts in 1010 and the resettability is just as good. Some difficulties with stray magnetic field from magnetostriction coils and with earth magnetic field are found. Preliminary experiments on pressure shift and its effect on the stabilized maser are discussed. The theory has been developed, and the frequency deviations as functions of the gas pressure and of the amplitude of modulation have been calculated."
"An electronic system has been developed which corrects for cavity-detuning errors in cesium atomic-beam frequency standards. The RF signal applied to the beam tube is square-wave phase modulated, i.e., frequency-impulse modulated. The transient response of the beam tube to these phase steps is used as a control signal. When the positive and negative transients are both equal in area and identical in shape, it will be shown that the applied RF signal must be exactly at cesium frequency (for the given magnetic field) and the RF cavities must be exactly in tune. Two feedback loops are needed; one for correcting the crystal oscillator, the other for adjusting the relative phase of the RF cavities. With cavity detuning error greatly reduced by this system, the remaining source of inaccuracy is the uncertainty of the magnetic field in the drift region of the beam tube. An experiment is described which may permit setting a given cesium-beam standard to a frequency that differs by a precisely known amount from the zero-field cesium-resonance frequency."
"In the case of physical quantities for which no international standards exist, such as microwave power and microwave noise, it may be desirable to establish an international standard by combination of the data from several laboratory standards. Even if there is an international standard, it conceivably might be replaced by a new composite standard, for example the mean of several laboratory atomic-time standards. A weighted mean may be preferable. It is noted that the \"best\" combination of observations for estimating a theoretical mean or median value depends on the theoretical frequency distribution from which the observations are drawn. Since the theoretical distribution for observations from different laboratories would in general be unknown, two weighted means are suggested which are reasonably good for many distributions, allowing for wild observations particularly, and in which the weight of each observation depends only on its order when the observations are ordered in size. The efficiencies of these and other estimates are evaluated for each of four distributions."
"Experiments were performed in order to verify the resettability of the hydrogen maser. The method consisted of measuring the output frequency of one maser against the hydrogen pressure. It was found that at a given tuning of the cavity no shift larger than 2.1 parts in 1013 was observed for a change of 4 to 1 in pressure. This experiment also showed that the pressure shift due to exchange collisions, predicted by Bender, could not be observed for the field-independent transition in the hydrogen maser. Two masers, having the same storage bulb design and the same wall coating, were tuned by this technique and were found to have a frequency difference of 7.6 parts in 1013. Experiments on the wall coating of the hydrogen maser storage bulb were made. Relaxation and decorrelation times of various materials were measured. The hyperfine splitting of the ground state of hydrogen measured against cesium is also given."
"To avoid uncertainties due to finite lead impedances, a direct admittance is best defined as the transfer admittance of a two-terminal-pair network. The network may contain both voltage and current transformers. Unwanted loop currents may be suppressed by coaxial chokes and the equivalent circuit reduced to that of a three-terminal admittance. Two direct admittances may be compared with a voltage or current ratio, and two such ratios may be combined to give a general form of four-arm bridge. This general bridge network may be balanced in a way which leads to simple relations independent of the ground admittances between the four direct admittances. At least two separate balance conditions must be satisfied, but it is usually best to make three balances since the error in the main balance is dependent on the product of the errors in the other two. There is no restriction on the type of network which may be used to couple the source and the detector to the bridge, provided the ground balance conditions are satisfied. Networks may be chosen to provide for filtering, impedance matching, and the elimination of transformers. Examples are given of four-arm bridge networks which use adjustable decade ratio-transformers as the main balance controls and fixed ratio-transformers for multiplication or inversion."
"The development of the current comparator, a three-winding current ratio transformer, is reviewed and its characteristics as an alternating current ratio standard are analyzed. Particular attention is given to the use of magnetic shielding and its effect on the accuracy and usefulness of the device. Some error characteristics of three types of audio-frequency current comparators are given and possible applications discussed. These include the calibration of current transformers and impedance comparisons. The adaptation of this device to dc operation is made possible by modulation techniques. A 20 000-ampere self-balancing direct current comparator, designed specifically for the calibration in situ of transductors or direct current transformers, is described. The application of this comparator to the calibration of shunts at high currents also is discussed and some results presented."
"The equations for the capacitive error of various constructions of audio-frequency current comparators are derived and discussed. The experimental procedure for trimming a comparator using an excitation winding is presented. The interrelationship between sensitivity and accuracy is indicated. An approximate diagram showing the size and error as a function of rated current for a matched sensitivity-error design is given."
"A self-balancing high-voltage capacitance ratio bridge, especially designed for continuous measurement of corona losses on experimental transmission lines, is described. The instrument is derived by combining a negative-feedback amplifier with a high-voltage capacitance bridge based on the current comparator principle. Manual control is provided for the four most significant decades of the bridge, thus permitting the function of the feedback amplifier to be limited to the balancing of small deviations. In this manner the errors originating in the amplifier and the associated indicating or recording instruments are made insignificant in the overall measurement. The accuracy of the built-in current comparator is 0.001 per cent, of the circuitry associated with the amplifier, 1 per cent. The output of the automatic balancing circuit is instrumented to produce a readout which is proportional to the power loss and reactive volt-amperes. Both components are in the form of small dc voltages and thus are suitable for recording."
"Saturated standard cells at temperatures between 20°C and 40°C exhibit a high negative-voltage coefficient with respect to temperature and have required temperature stabilization within ±0.01°C over an extended period to achieve a voltage stability of ±1 μV. Examination of standard cell data in the vicinity of 0°C, on the other hand, indicated higher voltages and a much lower temperature coefficient. In fact, the cell voltage reaches a maximum and consequently the voltage coefficient is zero at approximately 3°C, and is near zero over a range of several degrees. A cell maintenance temperature of 3°C, therefore, appears the most appropriate operating environment for a saturated cell in order to obtain maximum voltage stability. Heretofore, a convenient, high-stability, maintenance-free temperature bath operating near 3°C has not been available for laboratory use. The utilization of thermoelectricity to cool (Peltier effect) is currently available, and this method has been employed to provide a stable low-temperature ambient for saturated cells. This paper describes a practical air chamber-controller combination with thermoelectric heat pumping designed to test the behavior of saturated cells near 3°C. Details of the thermal and electrical characteristics of the unit will be discussed. Results show a ±0.2°C control is adequate to provide a primary voltage reference with ±1 μV stability at 3.1°C. Advantages and precautions in maintaining cells at low temperatures will also be presented."
"A description is given of the use of a nuclear spin oscillator as a transducer, connecting a magnetic field (10 g) to a frequency (42 kc/s). It is shown that for this function the spin oscillator is to be preferred to the nuclear maser. The system offers the advantage of permitting work in an ordinary laboratory with a background of parasitic field of some 1 mg; this insensibility to fluctuations is very convenient for the preliminary adjustment. For an accurate determination of current by means of a standard solenoid the stray field must be compensated statically and dynamically; for this purpose a feedback arrangement using a galvanometer-photocell amplifier is suggested. Calculations and experiments on an efficient mu-metal screen are presented. But this last arrangement, for absolute measurement of I, would require too large a screen when using a solenoid that shows a high-leakage field. The screen looks promising when Helmholtz coils are used, if construction can be perfected and if a sufficient degree of accuracy and reliability can be reached."
"Techniques recently developed at the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) have enabled the zero-frequency (or dc) value of 4-terminal Laboratory Standard Resistors readily to be determined to an accuracy of two parts in 107 from a few measurements made in the frequency band 40 c/s to 600 c/s. A Kelvin double-bridge network is used, the ratio arms consisting of inductively-coupled voltage dividers with an accuracy and discrimination of one part in 107 over the whole frequency range. Experimental results and constructional details of the inductive dividers are given together with the theoretical considerations underlying the principle of the method."
"Design considerations and constructional details for two audio-frequency direct-reading ratio sets are presented. These devices allow the comparison of admittances with accuracies up to one part in 109. The first direct-reading ratio set (DRRS) is based upon operational amplifier circuitry, and utilizes a two-stage amplifier system. With this technique, only a moderate voltage amplification per stage is required, and the circuitry is therefore not difficult to stabilize to prevent oscillation. The second DRRS is purely passive and makes use of two-stage voltage transformers to reduce the detrimental effects of transformer excitation current upon the linearity and ratio stability of the device. Equivalent circuits representing the behavior of critical parts of the two DRRSs are presented and analyzed. A convenient procedure for calibrating a DRRS is treated mathematically."
"A special six-terminal ribbon resistor which makes it possible to measure accurately any current ratio from 1 to 1, up to 10 to 1, in the lower audio-frequency range, has been devised and constructed. Circuits have been designed and tested which permit the calibration of ratio and phase angle of current transformers without reference to a standard whose ratio and phase angle are known. In the experimental work it was necessary to devise methods for minimizing effects due to 1) extraneous EMFs induced in the detector circuit by magnetic fields produced from any nearby current-carrying conductor, 2) extraneous currents caused by stray capacitance--mostly between transformer windings, and 3) changes in resistance of the ribbon resistor caused by current flow. It was found that errors caused by these effects could be almost entirely eliminated at ratios near unity, but their magnitude would increase as ratio increased. By using a battery-operated tuned null detector of high sensitivity, a resolution of 1 ppm in ratio could easily be attained. At ratios near unity the estimated uncertainty in ratio was within 5 ppm. At higher ratios the uncertainty increases, but by having two sets of transformers and comparing secondary currents, it is possible to \"boot strap\" to higher ratios using only ratios up to 2 to 1 on the test equipment. In the present work the uncertainty in each boot-strap operation was thought to be less than 10 ppm in ratio at 60 Hz."
"Basic problems with design specifications for RF connectors are discussed. The work of the ASA Committee C83.2 and the Armed Services in introducing performance specifications is presented. These specifications leave the construction details to the ingenuity of the designer but denote the critical interface dimensions to assure nondestructive mating. It defines two classes of connectors in terms of their performance characteristics. The results of the committee's efforts are presented in terms of definitions and measurement techniques for those parameters that define the RF performance of coaxial connectors. Examples of data obtained by these methods on present UG connectors are included."
"Impedances of devices with coaxial inlets, having small reflection coefficients relative to a given characteristic resistance, can be determined accurately (± 0.1 per cent) by comparison with the nominally calculable characteristic impedance of a quarter-wavelength, air-spaced coaxial line in which the inner conductor is supported by the inner conductors of the apparatus connected at each end. In carrying out such comparisons, errors may be introduced by the presence of small series impedances at the connections between the rigid coaxial lines. Such connections cannot be eliminated because they must be made and broken during the process of making comparisons. Errors may also arise from the distributed resistance and the \"internal\" reactance of the line conductors, as well as from departure of the lines from uniformity in diameter. This paper describes experimental techniques for measuring these residuals and discusses their effects. The design requirements of suitable air-spaced coaxial lines as standards are stated, together with a brief mention of techniques for making comparisons with the standards."
"A source of error in microwave attenuation measurements, not previously evaluated, is treated in an original analysis. The error is caused by effects of deviations of connectors or adapters from standard specifications. For example, if the coaxial connector at the insertion point in an attenuation measuring system deviates from standard specifications, the measured attenuation of a coaxial pad inserted in this system may differ from the measured attenuation of the same pad when inserted in a system having a standard connector at the insertion point. In the analysis, an attenuator installed in a system is represented by three cascaded two-ports, the central one representing the core or kernel of the attenuator, and the others representing connector pairs. Three general cases are considered: the waveguide component under test has 1) either sexless or mating connectors, 2) nonmating connectors of the same type and sex, or 3) nonmating connectors of different types. The results indicate that significant errors are possible with present connectors, such as the type N, but that these types of errors become negligible when high-precision connectors are used. The analysis permits one to tell how good a connector must be for a specific attenuator application."
"The accuracy of RF and microwave measurements made in coaxial systems is often limited at higher frequencies by the mismatch errors from the connectors. The need for higher accuracies in coaxial impedance measurements and for improved coaxial transfer standards of attenuation and power has led to several independent designs of coaxial precision connectors within the United States and abroad. The Committee is in the process of establishing \"recommended practices\" to standardize definitions, testing procedures, and mechanical and electrical characteristics for precision connectors. The Recommended Practicesfor Precision Coaxial Connectors is divided into four parts. Part I describes \"General Requirements and Definitions\" for Laboratory Precision Connectors (LPC), General Precision Connectors (GPC), and mechanical and electrical properties. Part II describes \"Parameters to be Specified\" for environmental conditions and mechanical and electrical characteristics. Parts I and II were completed and approved by the Subcommittee and the Parent Committee in 1963. A draft of Part III concerning \"Parameter Limits\" for coaxial line sizes, axial and angular forces, critical dimensions and tolerances for mating surfaces, VSWR limits, insertion loss, leakage, contact resistance, and other characterstics has been completed. Part IV concerning \"Test Procedures\" is now being processed. In March, 1964, Parts III and IV will be presented to the Subcommittee for approval. When all four parts of the Recommended Practices for Precision Coaxial Connectors are approved, this document will then be submitted to the American Standards Association for consideration as a standard."
"The method described employs a slotted line for VSWR measurement and a precision coaxial line as an impedance standard. A sliding load terminates the standard line during the process of transforming the impedance of the slotted line to that of the standard line. This load is coupled mechanically to the slotted-line probe so that the two move together. The VSWR seen by the probe is then, to first approximation, only that due to the reflection from the junction of the two lines. It is simple, therefore, to tune out the residual reflection without requiring a perfect load. The slotted line is then effectively transformed to the impedance of the standard line, and subsequent measurements made with it at the same frequency indicate VSWR with respect to the standard line. In order to minimize the effect of amplitude fluctuations of the RF source and to expand the scale, the detected probe output is compared with the detected output of a directional coupler monitoring the incident power. The difference is recorded with a strip recorder; the paper transport of the recorder is synchronized with the probe travel. In describing the method, considerable background material is presented on other precision impedance-measuring methods and techniques and on the general state-of-the-art. Theory, accuracy, system details, and results are given. The system appears capable of making absolute impedance measurements on a low VSWR termination to a maximum possible error in reflection coefficient of 0.0012."
"This paper describes a prototype noise-power comparator based upon a theory given by Allred. Operating at 3 MHz, it is a null-type instrument, the principal components of which are a hybrid four-port, a stable CW generator, a precision attenuator, a dual-channel amplifier and band-pass filter, and an analog multiplier. Unlike other radiometers, no rapid switching of the noise power or reference voltage is performed. The instrument can compare noise powers having effective noise temperatures in the range from below liquid-nitrogen temperature to greater than 30,000°K. Two noise generators having known spectral densities are used to calibrate the comparator. The uncertainty of comparison is less than 1 per cent at 75°K and decreases to 0.2 per cent at 29,000°K."
"Three materials, i.e.,fused silica, glass, and alumina, were selected for comparison based on known or expected homogeneity, isotropy, and stability. Measurements were made by the three Government laboratories (U. K., U. S. A., and Canada), both in the radio-frequency range, using capacitor-type holders either with or without an air gap, and at microwave frequencies, using either cavity-resonance methods or transmission-line impedance methods. The range among the laboratories on the real part of the permittivity is 0.4, 0.8, and 0.2 per cent for the three materials, respectively. The agreement on loss tangent is of the order of 0.0001 in many cases, but larger discrepancies exist. An introductory statistical analysis for systematic differences between laboratories is given."
"An instrument has been developed for measuring the dielectric permittivity and loss of a material without contacting electrodes from the mechanical torque generated by an electric field applied to a suitably shaped specimen. The theory of operation is briefly outlined, and it is shown that in principle the sensitivity of the method is independent of frequency. The design and operation of the instrument, which works over a frequency range of 0.001 c/s to 80 kc/s, is described in detail. An assessment of the precision of the method is made from dielectric loss measurements on polymethyl methacrylate and polystyrene spheres."
"Measurements of dielectric constant and loss tangent have been made on several paraelectric and ferroelectric materials in the region of 35 Gc/s. The measurement technique is appropriate for materials with large dielectric constant and large loss tangent; typical values measured are in excess of 1500 for dielectric constant and 0.1 for loss tangent. Preliminary considerations indicate an accuracy of approximately 5 per cent. Previously reported techniques are not suitable for making such measurements at 35 Gc/s, and this aspect is discussed briefly. The technique consists of measuring insertion loss and phase shift of a signal upon passing through a slab of the test material filling the cross section of the waveguide. These data are measured as a function of slab thickness. The insertion loss (in dB) will undulate with increasing thickness for sufficiently thin samples, but it quickly becomes proportional to thickness for material having the afore-mentioned properties. In the region of proportionality the equations relating insertion loss and phase shift to the dielectric constant and loss tangent become rather simple, allowing data to be reduced easily. The paper gives a derivation of the equations required for data reduction and also reports measured dielectric constants and loss tangents of various barium-strontium titanates at 35 Gc/s. Experimental problems are discussed including the very real problem of mounting the sample within the waveguide so as to eliminate air gaps and erratic data."
"The aim of this work is to measure nondestructively the resistivity of a semiconductor in the form of an epitaxial layer. The method involves the measurements of the attenuation suffered by an electromagnetic wave reflected by a semiconducting surface. A mathematical discussion leads in the first instance to the establishment of a theoretical curve of attenuation vs. resistivity for homogeneous samples and later, to the family of curves of attenuation vs. resistivity for various thicknesses of epitaxial layer grown on highly doped substrate. The apparatus consists of a 70-Gc/s microwave bridge. The measurement is made by comparing the amplitude of the wave reflected by the semiconductor with that reflected by a short circuit. The reflection of the wave takes place at the end of the waveguide thus avoiding the necessity of cutting the sample for its insertion into the waveguide. The experimental results are obtained 1) by using a large number of samples of knowni resistivity and with readings of attenuation accurate down to the hundredth of a decibel, and 2) by the repeated reading on each sample; the small scatter on these readings indicates a high degree of reading precision. The theoretical curves are then compared with the experimental results. A discussion follows on possible sources of errors and the precautions taken to avoid them."
"A microwave technique is described for the determination of saturation magnetization of narrow-linewidth (20 oersteds or less) ferrimagnetic materials which is useful over a broad frequency range, limited, only at the lower frequency end, by the cutoff frequency of the material. The method overcomes most of the difficulties experienced with other techniques for determining saturation magnetization and yields results of high resolution and moderate accuracy. Small differences between materials are readily resolved. A subsidiary result of the technique extends to an analysis and identification of spurious modes of resonance, observed when designing magnetically-tunable microwave filters, for the case of spheres of ferrimagnetic material as resonators. It appears possible that the technique could be readily extended to measure other resonator geometries such as disks and ellipsoids. A small spherical sample of the unknown material is prepared. It is then inserted in a special test fixture which excites several magnetostatic modes of resonance which may be readily identified, including the uniform precessional [110] or \"Kittel\" mode. Utilizing the fact that a constant frequency difference exists between the [110] and [210] modes of resonance, the saturation magnetization of the material may be rapidly calculated from a measurement of the microwave-frequency difference between [110] and [210] modes when a constant dc magnetic field is maintained. The results appear independent of the orientation of the spheres, even though the material may be highly anisotropic."
"The accuracy of microwave-amplifier noise measurements is affected by 1) the uncertainty of the temperatures of the reference noise sources as seen at the amplifier input terminals, 2) the error in reading the output noise power from the amplifier, 3) mismatches between reference noise sources and the amplifier, and 4) the uncertainty of amplifier gain, aside from short-time gain drift. The influence of all these errors is evaluated which leads to the conclusion that the accuracy of measuring effective input noise temperatures below 60° K is greatly improved by employing a refrigerated microwave noise source, preferably at liquid helium-temperature. Finally, such a refrigerated noise source that uses WR-137 waveguide is described with all relevant details for its construction and calibration. The measurements were performed at 5.8 Gc/s. In the Appendix a \"universal\" error plot is discussed which enables one to predict the best possible accuracy of noise measurements for any combination of reference and noise temperatures."
"A magnetic-field measurement probe capable of a resolution of 0.001 per cent is described. The probe employs bifilar wound heating pads and a platinum resistance thermometer to maintain the temperature of its enclosure within 0.1°C. A thermistor-resistor network compensates for the effects of self-heating due to changing power dissipation in the control side of the sensitive element. The probe was calibrated and tested with nuclear magnetic resonance equipment. The results obtained are discussed."
"This paper describes an electron magnetic resonance magnetometer for precision measurement of pulsed magnetic fields. Special attention is given to the probe, which consists of a pair of coupled helices in order to reduce eddy-current losses in the probe. A short description of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center's magnet modulator is given as background, and results of the measurements are presented. Other methods of pulsed magnetic field measurements are briefly described for comparison."
"This issue is devoted to the 1964 Conference on Precision Electromagnetic Measurements. Since it was not possible to include all the Conference papers in this issue, the abstracts of those papers presented at the Conference but not available for publication are presented here."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The present status of research on photoconductivity in organic molecular crystals is reviewed. The two main problems in the field, carrier generation and carrier transport, are discussed. The intent is to discuss those aspects of the problem which might be pertinent to photoconductivity induced by high energy radiation in polymers."
"The measurement, analysis and theory of primary photocurrent in transistors are discussed. Techniques for calculating or predicting primary photocurrent from pre-irradiation measurements are developed. For transistors driven into saturation by high-intensity pulses of gamma radiation, a radiation storage time is defined. A method for predicting radiation storage time entirely from non-radiation parameters is developed."
"Mathematical models describing the response of diodes and transistors to ionizing radiation are derived from the continuity and diffusion equations and, in the case of the transistor, the charge control model. Solutions are obtained for both steady-state and transient radiation environments. In addition to being of use in understanding device behavior, these solutions also indicate those device parameters which must be optimized to reduce transient response and therefore provide criteria for the design and/or selection of devices with minimum response. A model is also presented which describes the nonlinear effect of collector multiplication upon the collector photocurrent of a transistor. This model is used as a basis for explaining and predicting the nonlinear relation between the peak photo-response and the radiation dose which has been observed in some devices."
"A detailed study was conducted of the tradeoffs involved in the design of silicon planar transistors tolerant to fast-neutron irradiation up to 1 × 1015 nvt. Initial measurements made on irradiated 2N918 transistors indicated that breakdown voltage and collector current range must be sacrificed in order to improve device radiation resistance. The tradeoffs relating post-irradiation hFE to transistor fT, saturation region characteristics to breakdown voltage, and usable collector current range to length of emitter periphery are discussed in detail. The cptirn design is a high frequency, lcw breakdawn voltage transistor with a narrow usable current range. Transistors were fabricated having hFE greater than 5 over a wide tenwrature range after irradiation to 1 × 1015 nvt."
"As transistors become more radiation tolerant, renewed importance must be attached to the degradation of diode performance in a radiation environment. The dominant effect in most rectifiers is the increase in series resistance due to the removal of majority carriers from the conduction process in the base material. The initial conductivity of the base material and recent experimental data on carrier removal rates are used to predict the amount of degradation in the electrical characteristics of a rectifier exposed to a neutron environment; the initial conductivity of the base material may be obtained from diode design information or it may be estimated from the value of the avalanche breakdown voltage. Experimental data are presented which, in general, substantiate the predictions. In particular, diodes with a breakdown voltage of less than 100 volts appear to be usable to neutron fluxes in excess of 1014 n/cm2. Gold doping seems to increase radiation tolerance."
"Eighteen 2.2-ma and four 10-ma P-substrate (N-on-P), and eighteen 2.2-ma and four 10-ma N-substrate (P-on-N) substrate tunnel diodes were irradiated to 1.5 × 1016 n/cm2 (E > 0.3 Mev) and 2.2 1010 ergs/gm-(C) to investigate their radiation-resistance. Peak currents were found to remain constant under these exposures while valley currents increased due to the increase in excess current. P-substrate diodes were found to be the more radiation-resistant, degrading about one half as much as the N-substrate units."
"The short circuit currents from 1 ohm-cm silicon N/P, silicon P/N, and gallium arsenide solar cells, bearing shields up to 60 mils thick, and carried aboard the Relay I and Relay II satellites were monitored. The currents from all cells decreased because of damage by the trapped particles in the Van Allen radiation belts, The currents from unshielded cells fell to about half initial values in one day. The heavily shielded silicon cells finally degraded at the rate of about 17% per decade of time. Heavily shielded N/P silicon cells lasted about 10 times as long as similar P/N cells. Tentatively, gallium arsenide cells with 3 and 12 mil glass shields appear inferior to silicon N/P cells with 60 mil fused silica shields, while gallium arsenide cells with 30 and 60 mil silica shields appear superior, judging by comparing times to fall to given percentages of initial short circuit current values, and ignoring absolute efficiencies. The results from Relay I and Relay II, where comparable are in good agreement. The severe stepwise damage experienced by the unshielded cells is in good agreement with values calculated from the expected fluxes of protons of 0.5 Mev and greater. The calculated proton damage to the heavily shielded silicon cells is somewhat greater than that observed in orbit. Electron damage, after being discounted for belt decay, is considered to be a contributing but minor factor."
"A neutron radiation test was performed on 12 germanium bicrystals of four different resistivities, to screen their radiation tolerance. Optical performance of four bicrystals was recorded intermittently during the test using a pulsed radiation-tolerant light source included in the test package. VI diode characteristics were also taken periodically throughout the test. The results obtained showed that the open circuit voltage response of the devices was degraded by 5 × 1013 nvtf and that their diode characteristics became linear in proportion to the donor concentration. The diode characteristics, however, were affected at a much lower value than anticipated, as shown by the zero bias conductance."
"Indium Arsenide (InAs) and Indium Antimonide (InSb) Hall effect devices were tested in gamma and neutron radiation to determine if they were suitable for use in the radiation environment experienced in a typical SNAP system. Total exposures of 5 × 107 R (Co-60 gammas) and 1015 nvt (E > 0.1 Mev) were accumulated on one group of devices. Effects of gamma radiation were negligible; however, neutrons did cause measurable changes in Hall coefficient (RH) and input resistance (Rin). A simple method of compensating for parameter changes caused by radiation is suggested, which keeps errors in the multiplying constant less than 1% for InAs devices and less than 3% for InSb devices."
"This paper demonstrates a technique of modeling semiconductor devices with a comrpatible circuit analysis program using an IBM 7094 digital computer and an S - C - 4020 for CRT display. The models and program contain means of simulating the effect of an ionizing radiation environment. Both modeling and programming are facilitated by the use of a general-purpose compiler and solver termed TRAC (Transient Radiation Analysis by Computer). Comparison between TRAC simulation and experimental test results demonstrate close agreement at the indicated radiation levels. Methods for determining the semiconductor device parameter values from test data are illustrated. Likewise, TRAC program capability is tabulated with a circuit example illustrating application of the technique. A brief description of \"Equation Writing Capability\" is included with an example of input data required for this option."
"True magnetic-annealing effects, i. e., hysteresis loops with high remanence and rectangularity, with no increase in coercive force, can be induced in flat ring samples of bulk .015 cm thick polycrystalline Supermalloy at low temperatures by a new electron-radiomagnetic treatment. This treatment is possible because radiation produces vacancies in excess of the thermal equilibrium number, and this excess of vacancies accelerates diffusion of atoms, thereby permitting alignment of like-atom pairs by the applied magnetic field. This process is the only irradiation treatment for achieving true magnetic annealing effects in soft magnetic materials. Magnetic-field neutron irradiation induces rectangularity but at the expense of higher coercive force, due to the fact that in addition to excess vacancy production, neutrons produce additional and more complex defects. Other advantages of the magnetic-field electron-irradiation treatment over other processes for inducing rectangularity include shorter processing time and no induced radioactivity."
"Radiation induced electrical transients in strain gage, nickel temperature sensor, silicon temperature sensor, and thermocouple circuits have been studied in the Kukla Prompt Critical Pulsed Reactor environment. Induced signals, which could obscure real data, were observed in many strain gage circuits. It was determined that the observed signals were the result of a voltage appearing between the strain gages and ground when the reactor was pulsed. Circuit arrangements were devised and tested which reduced the magnitude of the induced signals to less than 1 mV. Nickel temperature sensors and spot welded thermocouples operated satisfactorily in the reactor environment. No adverse effects due to transient signals and no changes in calibration were observed. The one type of silicon temperature sensor tested suffered large and permanent increases in resistance when exposed to a reactor pulse."
"The service life of an insulating material which will be used in a nuclear radiation environment cannot be predicted by the usual thermal-aging methods; neither can it be predicted from experiments in which thermal aging follows a pre-exposure to radiation at room temperature. To have any reliable significance, the experiment must be conducted in a combined environment of both thermal and nuclear radiation. At the Naval Research Laboratory an apparatus has been designed and used to achieve this exposure condition. Results show that by combining radiation with heat the normal thermal life of several materials is increased by as much as 800 percent, and for one of these materials the increase was over 3500 percent in one combination of radiation and heat. This is probably due to a balancing of the chain-scission and cross-linking mechanisms which occur in polymer reactions. Increased life is not universal for all materials, for in some of these experiments less than normal thermal life was observed."
"A method is presented for reporting fastneutron exposure in a meaningful and unambiguous fashion. Four steps are required: determination of the shape of the neutron spectrum, fixing its absolute magnitude, choosing a reasonable energy weighting for the neutrons, and reporting the exposure in useful units. Alternative procedures are described for performing each of these steps. The exposure unit proposed is based on the amount of energy effective for causing displacements that each neutron can transfer to the lattice. Use of this approach gives an accurate comparison of damaging exposure between widely differing neutron spectra."
"The absolute rate-sensitivities of several burst sensors to neutrons and to gamma-rays in the mixed field of the Sandia pulsed reactor environment have been measured, using the shielding techniques of Coppage and Snyder(1) for variation of the neutron-to-gamma ray ratio over a factor of five to ten. The spectral changes effected by the shields are discussed. The sensors which were tested are: two reverse-biased preirradiated silicon diodes, MgO-RAD, phosphorphotodiode, and a fission (U238) detector. The ratio of the sensitivities of the detectors are 4. 8, 7.8, 9.1, 22, and 46 (x10-11 R-cm2/neutron (Pu)), respectively."
"A gamma-ray dosimeter employing a poled ferroelectric as the transducer element has been studied. Irradiation with gamma rays causes a release of charge by the ferroelectric element. The magnitude of the charge released has been determined experimentally to vary linearly with gamma-ray dose. The current in a shunting resistor with no external voltage applied varies linearly with gamma-ray dose rate. A constant of proportionality of 10-12 coul per rad (H2O) per cm2 of electroded ferroelectric surface has been measured for polycrystalline Pb(Zr.65 Ti.35)O3 + 1 w% Nb2O5 irradiated in the Sandia Pulsed Reactor. The contribution to the charge release from the neutron irradiation has been determined experimentally to be negligible. Irradiation in the 0.6 Mvp flash X-ray also produces a linear relationship between current and gamma-ray dose rate. A similar release of charge has been observed in poled ceramic barium titanate."
"The fading of radiation-induced absorbancy of cobalt glass as a function of exposure rate and time was investigated. A linear accelerator (Linac) and a 600 curie cobalt-60 source were used. The fading of the absorbancy was found to obey an empirical relationship over four orders of magnitude of the form A(t) = A(to) - n In t/to where A(to) is the absorbancy at time to. The slopes of the fading curves (n) were found to depend upon the initial absorbancy A(to) and wavelength. The difficulties of using a calibration curve determined with a low-exposure rate source for Linac dosimetry are briefly discussed."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An approximate analysis of the operation of thermoelectric generators with temperature dependent parameters is presented. Expressions for the optimum current and optimum area to length ratio are obtained for the cases of maximum efficiency and of maximum power output per unit volume. The principal assumption made in the analysis is that the temperature distribution along the legs of the generator is determined, to the first order of approximation, by the thermal conductivity of the material. The equations derived in the analysis are applied to a particular solvable case, and the approximate results obtained from them are compared with the exact results."
"During a set of aerodynamic tests in a Mach number 2. 4 wind tunnel, it was proven feasible to telemeter stagnation pressure measurements from within a magnetically suspended, ferromagnetic model. State-of-the-art, f-m radio telemetry, developed for hypervelocity range use, was employed. Although data at the outset of each of three trials reflect errors of less than three percent, inordinate frequency vs temperature interaction introduced intolerable shifts in telemeter center frequency as testing progressed. Several methods may be used to reduce these interactions. Magnetogasdynamic effects arising from the use of the magnetic model suspension technique are discussed in an appendix, and are shown to be negligible in most wind tunnel testing."
"This paper presents a design procedure using the Zero Force Curve for applying nonlinear elements in control systems. Specifically a method is presented for designing a nonlinear controller to achieve a desired step input response in a second order linear system. In a sense, the controller provides optimum response in that the desired response to the step input can be obtained with good fidelity. The body of the paper consists of the development of the design theory along with its application to several examples."
"During checkout of space or weapon systems, two types of errors can occur. These are (1) not detecting an existing defect and (2) calling a non-defective system defective. Equations are developed which relate the two error types to test equipment accuracy and specification limits of system parameters. The problem is considered on both the individual measurement level and the total system test level. The results of the paper can be used to specify test equipment accuracy design criteria, or to determine the probabilities of the two types of errors when test equipment design is already fixed."
"In the magnetic testing of satellites and spacecraft, very homogeneous fields are needed. One method of obtaining such fields is to use a number of circular coils on a common axis. The parameters of the best three- and four-coil systems were obtained by making zero as many terms as possible of the series for the field along the axis of the system. The parameters are presented in the form of tables and curves."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a listing of current members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Papers are arranged in the general order of presentation at the Conference. Refer to your program for correct Sessions, Times and Locations. The Index by Authors begint on Page 1013 of this publication."
"A 30 x 5 microelectronic commutator was designed and constructed for multiplexing sensor signals into an IRIG telemetry format. Logic control and selection are provided by 23 Texas Instruments solid circuits, signal transmission is via diode gates, and power conversion is internal. Dissipation is 1 watt, weight less than 6 ounces, and dimensions are 3 x 2 x 0.9 cubic inches. A complete series of tests was completed for application to the launch and orbit environments of space vehicles."
"35 w of power was produced at 132 mc using four transistor amplifier modules in the final stage, combined by a hybrid network. The use of the hybrid system permits summing of signals with a high degree of isolation between the amplifier modules. This permits operation of the amplifier modules to their full power capacity without requiring a match of device characteristics or equal power-sharing capabilities. Isolation is also realized with respect to load mis-tuning and greater reliability is achieved."
"This paper describes an S-band, multi-channel transponder which is utilized in the Goddard Range and Range Rate Tracking System for extremely accurate orbital or trajectory tracking of spacecraft from near-earth to lunar distances. A short general description of the system operation and capabilities will be presented. A detailed definition of the physical and electrical configuration of the transponder plus a discussion of the operating characteristics and design problems will follow."
"This paper describes a UHF Beacon/ Transceiver which will be part of the Gemini astronauts' survival kit. The all solid-state transmitter provides a minimum of 2 watts average power for 24 hours in the beacon mode and 1.2 watts of average power in the voice mode. The dynamic range of the double conversion superheterodyne receiver permits the radio to communicate with search aircraft at ranges from 50 feet to 25 miles."
"In large complex aerospace sites, hard-wire communication systems require extreme versatility. Members of each test group need constant intercommunication, plus ability to monitor related groups, or to access a paging system. The group conductors need priority lines between themselves and their supervisor. The supervisor needs priority circuits to Command and Safety. Connections to base telephones, radio links, data processing, recording, remote field indicators, countdown clocks or other systems may also exist. During countdown, groupings will increase, decrease, or merge, so that networks may change rapidly from isolated conversations to conferences of over a thousand stations. These requirements, plus high reliability, generate unique system criteria."
"The high operational reliability required of the communications network for the MINUTEMAN launch-control system made it imperative that extensive testing be performed at various levels of development, prior to installation. Meeting this requirement rests on two types of reliability achievement: one comprises the familiar equipment reliability considerations; the other, emphasized in this paper, relates to the reliable generation, transmission, and demodulation (in the presence of interference) of the digital data signals used for command and status functions."
"This decoder accepts eight tone frequencies, from which it will produce twenty-one separate outputs. It meets all NASA requirements for address-execute command equipment.' The design and construction of the decoder will be discussed. Several circuit innovations will be described, including a solid state address switch with a slow release feature, a noise immune tone filter, and a novel d-c actuated memory element. Construction features include shock and vibration isolation for sustained operation in a highly adverse environment. Finally, the decoder is light and compact. Together with its companion receiver, the total weight is 2-1/ 2 pounds and the overall size is 43 cubic inches."
"During the period from May of 1960 to date a series of flight command subsystems have been designed, developed, built and flown for deep space interplanetary probes.* These subsystems, each consisting of approximately three thousand parts, have achieved a measured mean time to failure in excess of fifty thousand hours. It is felt the techniques used in achieving this high level of reliability are of significance to any persons engaged in the field of Aerospace Technology."
"The problems associated with determining the position of unmanned drifting buoys and constant pressure balloons from a medium. altitude satellite in a near-polar orbit are discussed. A system employing range-only measurements is described, and the errors in the computed position of the sensor platforn as a result of errors in range measurement, uncertainties in knowledge of the satellite ephemeris and the altitude and velocity of the balloon are analyzed. The oceanographic and meteorological operational requirements of this system are briefly discussed and the design implications of these requirements described."
"This control electronics system provides for remote control programming of variable optics of seven telescopic instruments which form a major payload for the first Orbiting Astronomical Observatory (OAO). Controlled variables include measurement channel gain, viewing angle, collimation, and spectral band. Features of the electronic system include: (1)Selective redundancy of command code bits, use of control modes of operation, and sequence of data readout format. (2) Conversion of the complete system design into qualified hardware consuming less than 8 watts average power."
"The AN/FPS-85 radar system is part of the overall Space Detection and Tracking system of the Air Force. This radar is a phased array system incorporating many advanced techniques. It is completely computer controlled to take advantage of the inertialess scanning beams of the phased array. This paper will discuss techniques being used and show pictures of the installation and hardware. Features include: a. Long Range Detection Capability b. High Transmitted power c. Inertialess Electronic Beam Steering d. Multiple Receiving Beam Capability e. High Reliability f. Extreme Flexibility g. Determination of Target Trajectories and Orbits and Maintenance of Ephemerides on Large Numbers of Satellites."
"This paper discusses several radar design considerations for use in the terminal control of manned and unmanned space vehicles of the maneuverable type. The main body of the paper deals with specific areas of radar development resulting from recent work in developing a terminal control system. The radar system discussed uses a transponder on board the vehicle. The transponder receives and transmits PCM commands and flight data in addition to reference pulses for angle and range tracking. The technical areas discussed are reliability of self-acquisition, pulse code modulated (PCM) data transmission, semidigital ranging, and the accuracy of computed radar data."
"A completely transistorized automatic sensitivity time control (ASTC) circuit was designed and developed to operate in conjunction with a side-looking airborne radar surveillance set. The ASTC technique is a closed loop system which automatically controls the radar receiver gain vs range function in accordance with the average signal return. The addition of ASTC substantially improved the imagery of a side-looking airborne radar recorded during low altitude flights."
"The Naval Space Surveillance System is a multistatic cw radar system using the principle of the radio interferometer. Satellites are located in space by measuring the direction cosines of the reflected radio energy and triangulating from two or more receiving sites. Since the direction cosines are determined by electronically measuring the electrical phase difference between pairs of antennas, it is important to maintain phase coherency between all phase carrying channels as well as minimizing all differential phase shifts throughout the post-detection circuits. Characteristics of post-detection filters and phase measuring circuits are discussed in the light of the undesirable incidental phase changes in the system and those caused by phase-rate (the latter being a function of the satellite's relative speed with respect to the surveillance fence). Sensitivity and system error is examined as the phase signals are traced through wide and narrow band post-detection filters. Some work on the affect of \"phase jump\" on the system is also considered as simple circuits are stimulated by a sudden change in phase."
"Passive reflectors may be employed to enhance the radar return of a space vehicle for some phases of tracking, as in orbital rendezvous. Contour charts prepared on a suitable base grid provide an objective means of evaluating the spatial coverage of different designs for this application. The superiority of a circular corner reflector over square or triangular designs is demonstrated by plotting their backscattering areas in this manner. Comparison can also be made of altogether different types of reflectors, as illustrated by a jack, which provides very poor return relative to the three types of corners."
"A technique is presented whereby the temperature gain stability of a cascade of high frequency transistor bandpass amplifiers may be improved by utilizing the intrinsic parameter variations of the transistors. Analysis and supporting empirical evidence is presented which indicates that the temperature coefficient of gain variation is dependent upon the magnitude and phase of the short circuit input driving point admittance Yie.It is shown that cascades of transistors specified in terms Of Yie yield nearly flat low temperature gain characteristics."
"The character of time-multiplexed pulse-code-modulation telemetry data is reviewed here, and requirements for demultiplexing and processing are considered. Salient design features of a high-performance \"ground station\" are presented. Reasons are given for the use of specialized system elements for recognition of synchronization patterns, tagging of samples with source identifiers, distribution to diverse destinations, and preselection of significant data. With a stored-program PCM ground station playing a major role, total data-system performance is far superior to that which would be obtainable if key functions were assigned to general purpose computers."
"Real-time automatic digital data reduction and evaluation have been used at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company for the last year and a half. The advantages of this method over analog-record methods are clearly demonstrated. The computer programming-software is described which controls the system. The operation of the data evaluation system is described and operational data is included."
"The important aspects of operational systems engineering for a typical earth-orbiting satellite are highlighted. Focus is on the use of a general purpose digital computer at a command and telemetry data acquisition station. The operational concept utilizes the computer equipment both on-line, in near real time, and off-line to assess satellite performance for operational purposes. The operational commands transmitted to the satellite are derived and printed out by the computer and its peripheral equipment from a diagnostic processing of the satellites recorded telemetry data. While the spacecraft is still within range of communication, commands are transmitted from the ground station either for immediate execution or for execution at a specified future time. An adequately detailed description of the spacecraft-computer interface is attempted to permit sufficient understanding for early incorporation of complete subsystem operational requirements during the initial design phase of any similar program."
"This paper discusses the concepts of information system technology as related to aerospace surveillance systems. Information requirements for surveillance systems are defined, followed by a comprehensive digest of the state-of-the-art in displays. The relative advantages and disadvantages of display techniques are discussed with a view to evaluate the trends from which future requirements of displays may be extrapolated."
"This paper describes a computing technique which comprises three analog computing elements: the adder-subtractor, the multiplier-divider and the function generator, and one hybrid integrator. The inputs and outputs of all of these computing elements are in pulse-width form and therefore, can be switched with digital logic circuits. The combination of built-in storage capability and digital signal switching permits sequential operation. The adder, multiplier, and function generator are built around a novel precision pulse-width modulator which charges and discharges a capacitor and which requires neither precision resistorsnor precision capacitors. All computing elements operate with, or approach, an accuracy of one part in 1000 at a repetition frequency of 1KC. At lower repetition frequencies, higher accuracy may be possible."
"A statistical analysis is presented, which gives the relationship between the spectral and diffuse transmissivity of photographic film. The validity of this theory was checked by experimental measurements and the agreement was excellent for all cases where the basic assumptions are valid. The theory still gives an insight into the experimental result obtained when these assumptions are not valid. This theory is also used to gain an understanding of the modulation process and dynamic range of photographic data film used in an optical correlator or any other device which uses the film as a psuedo diffraction grating."
"A study program was conducted to provide guidelines for the design of integrated micropower logic circuits. Constraints of maximum resistance, propagation time, and minimum power at frequencies below 150 kcps were imposed. Complementary Resistor-Diode-Transistor Logic offered the best trade-off performance within these constraints and state-of-the-art fabrication technology. Compatible \"NAND and NOR\" gates and flip-flops are feasible at frequencies ranging from 1 kcps to 150 kcps at power drains of 10 to 350 microwatts."
"This paper discusses the design, fabrication technology and performance of minimum-power microelectronic circuits and subsystems, some operating with a supply power consumption of only a few microwatts per transistor stage. The advantages of complementary PNP-NPN circuitry is pointed out and figures of merit for minimum power circuitry are defined. The fabrication technology for micropower microelectronic circuits and its main advantages are outlined. Detailed examples of microwatt NOR gates, half shift registers and amplifier stages are given. Circuit and systems packaging and interconnection techniques are discussed. The design, construction and performance of a minimum power seven-bit analog to digital converter and of a 10 channel record and playback amplifier system for a digital tape recorder, both destined for space applications are described in detail. Advanced concepts such as the construction of complete subsystems on a single silicon wafer, the possibility of non-volatile operation with micro-power semiconductor circuitry and the departure from silicon as a host crystal and substrate to reduce stray capacitances are pointed out as research goals for the near future."
"\" Integral Circuit Packages,\" or \"Integrated Electronic Stages,\" offer the attractive features of small size, light weight, and the promise of ultra-reliability (particularly when combined redundantly) to the aerospace technology. While digital devices are becoming common, analog devices are not. An analog voice uhf receiver is discussed with emphasis on performance data at voice frequency, 12 Mc and 88 Mc. Four device types are included -- the \"hybrid\" microassembly, the thin film, the monolithic single crystal, and the combined monolithic-thin film. It is shown that stable gain per stage of 23 db can be achieved at 88 Mc, and of 26 db at 12 Mc. Device limitations and peculiarities are discussed."
"Flowgraphs provide an ideal description of the functional interdependence of variables in integrated circuits and thin film systems. A wide range of microsystems were examined, typical examples analysed include thin film transistors, environmental perturbations such as radiation effects and switching phenomena in integrated semiconductor networks. Flowgraph techniques are extended and adapted to permit evaluation of performance characteristics and figures-of-merit of devices and circuits. Criteria for constructing models are examined and procedures are developed for establishing models of complex systems on the basis of a set of building blocks of simpler flowgraphs."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of obtaining nearly omnidirectional patterns in one plane of large conducting bodies having circular cross sections. To define the problem in terms of discrete sources, calculations were made for typical element patterns F((ϕ') = 1, F(ϕ') = 1 + cos ϕ', and F(ϕ') = 1 + 1/2 cos ϕ'. Array circumferences Zλ from 20λ to 40λ were considered for the number of sources S from S = Z/λ to S = 1.5Z/λ. Several prototype antennas were studied which partially overcome the practical problems of feeding large numbers of discrete sources."
"The purpose of this study was to experimentally determine the effects of placing dielectric covers of various thicknesses over a shunt slot in a waveguide. Slot lengths L and displacements x were chosen so that the data cover the waveguide bandwidth for dielectric constants ϵ' from ϵ' = 1 to ϵ' = 4. Utilizing the measured data, formulas are developed for the mean values of slot conductance and resonant frequency for cover thicknesses greater than λϵ'/4. In addition, it is shown that plane wave theory gives a bound on the conductance variation for covers thicker than λϵ'/4. Finally, pattern and VSWR measurements of linear arrays of dielectric covered slots designed with single slot data give predictable results."
"Integration of antennas with circuits can provide sophisticated receiving performance, with fewer parts and an accompanying savings in size, weight, and cost more easily than conventional separate design. This is illustrated by the beam shaping capability of a four element array of controllable-gain transistorized dipole antennafiers using an equal-amplitude corporate feed structure. Effective amplitude taper was obtained by individual gain adjustments in the integrated elements. Patterns and noise temperatures are given for various amplitude distributions, including uniform, edge, binomial, and Dolph-Chebyshev. The antennafier element used was a gamma-matched half-wave dipole integrated with a 2Nl 742 VHF transistor amplifier. Adjustable base bias was used for gain control. Up to 12 db circuit gain was obtainable in each element with an effective noise temperature under 400°K at 148 Mc."
"The properties of a class of geodesic lenses which have potential uses in microwave antenna applications are described. The promising features of these lenses include multiple beam capability and versatility of flush-mounting to a wide variety of surfaces, e.g., flat surfaces on aerospace vehicles and conical surfaces in the nose sections of aircraft and missles. An inflatable lens structure is attractive as a satellite antenna. Because of the circular symmetry of these lenses, coverage over 360° about the symmetry axis is possible. The beam position can be controlled in the transverse dimension by radial feed position giving two-dimensional coverage from a fixed lens. Beam positioning has been demonstrated in two lens models. Furthermore, the TEM and the TEo1 waveguide modes can be employed to obtain two modes of orthogonal polarization."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of arraying Yagi disk or disk on rod surface wave structures having large interelement spacings. It is shown that symmetrical arrays having acceptable sidelobe levels (below 13 db) can be designed using simple array theory and the knowledge of a single-element pattern."
"This paper presents a study of some properties of a tunnel-diode-loaded-dipole antenna. These include gain, noise performance, stability, and reradiation characteristics. In essence the analysis is made by applying ordinary network theory to an equivalent network of the loaded dipole antenna; however, the treatment stresses the difference between the combined antenna and amplifier (antennafier) and the usual amplifier. Graphical determinations of stability and reradiation are shown."
"The concept of an adequate system is introduced as the lowest total cost system that will do what is expected of it whenever called upon. The minimization of total cost requires that the system use the lowest failure rate parts currently available, that it make full use of these parts and that it have an availability approaching unity. It is suggested that adequate systems are likely to be obtained only if procured on a Total Annual Cost Basis."
"The analytical method presented here simplifies problems associated with transmitting transistor and diode characteristics from the semiconductor manufacturer to the electronic designer. This novel approach permits the base and collector characteristics of any individual transistor of a given type to be derived from the nominal characteristics of that type by use of a set of matching factors and terms that modify the nominal characteristics to suit that individual. Availability of complete characteristics allows the designer to accurately simulate the nonlinear behavior of the device in a circuit by means of a convergent iterative process."
"Careful and diligent failure analysis is necessary to obtain maximum benefit from life tests of electronic equipments. The importance of good failure analysis is often underrated in a test program, to the detriment of the program. This paper discusses the role and the significance of correct attitudes, advance indoctrination, thorough planning, skills, facilities, and effective supervision in adequately diagnosing each failure incident, in recording its details, and in preserving the lesson learned."
"The author has been involved with the technical aspects of failure analysis for the past three years. This paper presents a number of typical autopsy analyses which illustrate the techniques which have evolved and examples of electronic part failure causes. The experiences lead to the conclusion that most part failures are the results of defects in design and construction or are the products of human errors in testing. Reliability improvements may be achieved by recognizing these failure causes and adapting appropriate corrective action."
"A nonmathematical discourse on inconsistencies in the present approach to the problem of achieving reliability in electronics for aerospace applications."
"Management omissions currently have a greater adverse effect on the achievement of Reliability than do technical limitations. A major cause for such omissions is a lack of acceptance of responsibility for Reliability by offices which in practice exert more of a significant influence on the program than do the Reliability experts. This paper describes the responsibilities of all offices involved, the knowledge required by these offices and the management tools available to them."
"This paper describes some of the significant Titan Research and Development test experiences and shows the part the test program played in the development of the Titan electrical systems. It shows that, in general, greater emphasis is required on the application of our technology rather than on the technology itself. Although the problems encountered in the development of the Titan are not necessarily the same as those of other programs, the method of solution is basic and significant."
"Periodic checkout of space or weapon systems is investigated to determine the probability of no undetected defects (or failures) as a mathematical function of various parameters related to checkout equipment design criteria and checkout techniques. This probability is treated (1) when the checkout is complete and therefore tests for all possible failures and (2) when the checkout is not complete and does not test for all possible failures. One of the parameters affecting the probability of no undetected defects is the frequency of checkout. Special attention is paid to this parameter as it affects the system failure rate, as opposed to its effect on the probability of no undetected defects. The probability of a checkout erroneously determining that a failure exists (a false alarm) is treated as a matter of considerable importance because it results in unnecessary mission delays and money expenditures. This probability is also shown as a mathematical function of the various checkout equipment design and checkout techniques."
"A PORTABLE AUTOMATIC DIGITAL TEST SET HAS BEEN DESIGNED FOR PART OF THE MINUTEMAN GROUND ELECTRONIC SYSTEM. THE TEST SET WITH CONVENTIONAL SOLID STATE PRINTED CIRCUIT CONSTRUCTION WOULD WEIGH OVER 90 LBS. AND OCCUPY 5 CUBIC FEET OF SPACE. USING INTEGRATED CIRCUITS, A VOLUME REDUCTION OF 30 TIMES AND A WEIGHT REDUCTION OF 6 TIMES HAS BEEN ACHIEVED. THIS REDUCTION ALLOWS THE TEST SET TO BE PLUGGED DIRECTLY INTO A RACK CONNECTOR WITHOUT CABLES AND FACILITATES TESTING IN PREMIUM SPACE ENVIRONMENTS."
"A new method of developing and presenting troubleshooting information for semi-automatic checkout equipment has been developed for the Mark 6 Re-entry Vehicle program based upon the signal-flow method of analysis. This analysis enables the technician to logically eliminate all sources of malfunction which might produce a given erroneous output. It has been proven to be effective in reducing system down-time and in assisting in training of technicians. This method may be useful for other fixed-sequence checkout operations."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a medium-speed tape-controlled programmer developed for use in automatic test equipment. This programmer is basically an electromechanical unit employing standard eight-hole paper or Mylar tape and capable of operating at speeds up to 120 memories per second. The primary features of this unit are flexibility, low cost, and reliability. Other important features include memory outputs in the form of contact closures rated at two amperes, the use of a mechanical tape reader, diode NOR logic gating, transistor drive circuits, and mercury-wetted relay memories, all of which result in a reliable yet comparatively inexpensive programming system capable of controlling both small and large equipments."
"The development of a spacecraft electric powered subsurface sampler for drilling a 1-1/4 inch diameter hole in the lunar surface to a maximum depth of 5 feet is discussed. The unit is designed to deliver lunar soil samples from selected depths to a sample analysis system and positions a geophysical probe in the hole. Automatic operation, by command from an earth control station on the basis of telemetered information is planned. The system includes four electric motor powered drives designed for operation in a very high vacuum. The total weight of this mechanism is 26.9 pounds."
"General programming requirements for space boosters are presented and an introduction is given to the need for standardized programming. A unique approach for development of a universal programmer is undertaken. Development of this approach is related to the Thor vehicle. A solid state programmer proposed for use on Thor is presented as an example and techniques used on this programmer for time generation and time accumulation are discussed. Methods used for sequence and turning rate command output control are introduced. The major points stressed are capability and flexibility with a growth potential also presented which is related to projected future space booster use requirements."
"This paper discusses an electronic technique to control mixture ratio in a combustion process using cryogenic propellants. Propellant density variation from liquid to gaseous hydrogen dictated an elaborate pulse-width-amplitude-modulated control system. Requirements of millisecond total flow change, mixture ratio variation, and summed rate plus dual temperature sensing caused further sophistication. The resultant system provides positive control(3%) of critical temperature for catalytic H2 - O2 combustion even during an abrupt, non-predictable relocation of the reaction flame front within the catalyst bed."
"This paper describes a technique for determining the magnetic dipole moment of a spacecraft by sampling its magnetic field at constant radius. Integral equations relating magnetic field samples to the three-axis dipole components are derived from a multipole expansion of the distributed magnetic source. Included in this paper are a description of a magnetic test facility and a sample calculation demonstrating the above theory."
"Many Magnetic Control or Unloading Systems have been presented at technical conferences over the past few years. Now one is a reality - a production line item - in the NASA-Grumman Orbiting Astronomical Observatory (OAO). The OAO magnetic control system utilizes the earth's magnetic field - itself a source of disturbance torque - as a spatial lever arm, upon which to transfer accumulated angular momentum in a wheel control system or to control directly the orientation of the spacecraft. No longer considered in the \"tail fin\" category, it ls a primary control system, the importance of which can be seen when it is compared with a pneumatic control system. This paper comments on a theoretical magnetic control system design advanced by Messrs. Paiken and Fleisig (and other authors Ref. 5,6,7), and traces the solution of equipment design problems. This includes the selection of iron core torquers, rather than large air core coils; the environmental and reliability criteria of long life spacecraft; the static and dynamic testing of the systems; and use of existing control system signal information. The discussion supplements a previous paper; \"Momentum Control of the OAO Spacecraft Utilizing the Earth's Magnetic Field\" by GAEC's Paiken and Fleisig. This was presented at the International Astronautical Congress, Paris, France, in September-October 1963, and described the initial block diagram design, computer simulations and studies."
"A test rig for liquid-metal-bearing development required a motor drive. The initial test rig utilized liquid potassium. at temperatures up to 600° F for the working fluid. A conventional two-pole induction motor with standard bearings was first used as a drive motor. It required shaft seals which were separated by an argon barrier; however, leaking seals and potassium, contamination due to seal wear and the motor bearing lubrication presented a large problem. For a liquid-mercury test rig it was decided that the drive motor should be directly coupled to the test bearing shaft. This led to the development of an axial air-gap, unskewed motor. The windings were to be sealed in epoxy-glass laminate, but the rotor was to be exposed to the mercury vapor. Such a motor was built and tested, and proved to be so successful that a second motor was built and adapted to the liquid-potassium-bearing test rig."
"Analysis results and relative merits of five measurement system techniques and transducer designs are discussed for providing accurate pressure and force definitions during static solid rocket motor firings with dual level ballistic performance or dual gain liquid injection thrust vector control (LITVC). The accuracy and reliability of each system depends upon the inherent capability and procedures maintained in each approach, the operational levels, and the specific applications; therefore, these factors are necessarily discussed in the text. An analysis of the described force and pressure measurement systems show how an instrumentation measurement system total error may vary from ±0.5% to ±10% depending on the emphasis placed upon the overall measurement system design, and the control exercised during use."
"This paper deals primarily with a technique for designing and optimizing a slewing (re-orientation) inertia wheel. The approach, although patterned around NASA's Orbiting Astronomical Observatory, is general and can be tailored to meet the requirements of most spacecraft utilizing inertia wheels for changing their orientation. A method for slewing the spacecraft is briefly discussed and it is shown how the parameters required to design the inertia wheel affect the final design. The interdependence of other spacecraft subsystems on the optimum inertia wheel design is stressed. Starting with the expression for the theoretical speed-torque curve of the motor, a set of equations are developed for the design optimization of the parameters for an open-loop inertia wheel system. It is the goal of the optimizing technique presented to determine the optimum relationship between weight and power consumption."
"Conductors transmitting low voltage signals through unconditioned high temperature environments have been experimentally investigated. Measurements of insulation resistance, open-circuit voltage, and signal attenuation were taken, for several chromel-alumel, metal-sheathed, ceramic-insulated thermocouple wires at temperatures approaching 2000°F. Test results show that: insulation resistance calculations and measurements agree; signal attenuation is directly dependent upon the length of the wire; overall signal attenuation is more dependent on conductor resistance than on insulation resistance; when open circuits exist, errors are generated within thermocouple wires when the wires are heated to temperatures above 400°F."
"A group of compounds are described whose physical and chemical properties make them attractive solid lubricant candidates for aerospace applications. The compounds are diehalcogenides of the Group VB and VIB metals niobium, tantalum, molybdenum and tungsten. Through a description and discussion of their frictional characteristics and other pertinent properties, the potentials that they possess for applications in unusual environments are illustrated."
"In the Apollo spacecraft electrical power system weight is at a premium. Energy loss actually increases the system weight by added fuel requirements. A new type of switch gear was developed for the fuel cell system which eliminates the use of circuit breakers, diodes and uses instead solid state relay operated switches. Consideration was also given to use saturable reactor type current metering in the fuel cell line."
"North American Aviation, Inc., is designing and building the Apollo Command and Service Modules at its Space and Information Systems Division, Downey, Calif., under contract to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Manned Spacecraft Center, Houston, Texas. The Apollo Spacecraft Command and Service Module obtains primary electrical energy from fuel cells for flight phases until earth re-entry, and from storage batteries during re-entry and landing. The electrical power distribution system controls, conditions as necessary, and distributes this energy to all spacecraft loads. Constraints, design considerations, and evolution of the electrical power distribution system are described. Load requirements and power characteristics are defined. Fault protection and redundancy to achieve reliability are discussed."
"This paper proposes a possible feedback control system for regulating the output voltage and currents of a spacecraft electric power system consisting of parallel fuel-cell modules. Such a control system may be necessary because of the many fuel cell variables that can change the value of the fuel-cell module terminal voltage and cause an unequal division of load between the modules."
"This paper considers theoretically the effects (relative to conventional design) of micro-miniaturization on the mutual compatibility among various portions of systems. It discusses the major factors involved, such as power levels, sizes of radiators and pickups, spacings among them, and function trends toward solid-state switching and greater use of digital operations. From these, compatibility relationships are developed and the relative severity of the compatibility problem is estimated."
"This paper discusses the problems encountered in military maintenance useage of electrical wire terminations commonly called \"Terminal Lugs\". After a discussion of the problems, this paper then explains the results of a remedial study made by the AFLC and the RCA. Bar graphs are presented showing survey results of lug useage in relation to most used type. Resulting proposed dimensions will not only ease engineering and interchangeability problems but should show a monetary savings to the tax-payer. Limited copies of proposed dimensions at presentation or by request from W. R. Luebben"
"Data are presented that are important in the design of electrically propelled spacecraft. An explanation is given for what has been done with regard to the power-conditioning equipment for small ion rockets up to 3 kw including the problems encountered. The expected power distribution of 30-kw electron-bombardment and contact-ionization rockets is presented, although engines of this size have not been tested. The electrical power requirements are presented in a form compatible with system studies."
"Silicon-controlled rectifiers were used in a capacity charging circuit for applications in space where high efficency and low weight are major considerations. This charger can be used to pulse lasers, plasma propulsion engines, sonar, or some thermonuclear devices. The system was compared to conventional designs and found to be particularly advantageous when the discharge rate was varied, or when the ratio of the capacitor charging period to the supply voltage period was high."
"A cesium plasma source based on arc ionization of cesium vapor has been developed. Energy efficiencies of less than 100 electron volts per ion at ionization levels of 75-95% and flow rates of 500-1300 milliamperes are readily attained. A simplified theoretical model has been developed which accounts satisfactorily for arc initiation and ion recombination."
"A conceptual breakthrough in ion engines for space flight will allow the optimization of the ion source and the accelerator system independently. Generation losses (less than 100 w/a ions) haw been measured which are much lower than alternative approaches. Calculated engine performance curves show higher thrust and efficiency than other ion engines and less propellant consumption than the arc-jet. Ion trajectories, calculated by a digital computer program, show no direct impingement. Efficient low current density operation is feasible, with greatly increased engine life."
"Redundancy as a design tool is becoming more necessary with increased space age reliability requirements and more practical with continued development of micro-miniaturized hardware. Blind use of classical relationships without a thorough knowledge of all interactions can result in calculated improvement that is never attained. Redundancy, incorrectly applied, can reduce reliability. In this paper, the most common errors in the application of redundancy to designs are presented and methods of optimizing the benefits of redundancy and of avoiding the pitfalls are explored. Included are practical design techniques to reduce interdependency in the application of redundant items. Improved techniques are presented for more accurately predicting the reliability of redundant designs."
"A procedure is presented for determining the optimum arrangements of components in a system under weight or reliability constraints. It is based on reliability improvement through the use of functional redundancy. The mathematical background is briefly presented. General steps of the procedure are logically deduced and then applied to the components of an aerospace system."
"This paper discusses four different kinds of \"failure mode\" identifications. These are: By symptom, by primary failed part, by failure mechanism, and by \"failure mechanism and its cause.\" Two years of experience with a failure mode analysis system have led to the classification of approximately 10,000 malfunctions. About 6000 of these were analyzed in sufficient detail to establish at least the identity of the primary failed piece part. About 1500 different modes of failure were thus identified. Another 1000 modes of failure by symptom were also identified. Corrective actions were expedited when the nature of part failure was identified. Identified modes of failure also form a basis for Design Review Checklists for application to future designs."
"In order to generate contractually required reliability estimates on special components for which no reliability test data was available, a broad method of analysis was developed using analogous data and a thorough study of the component. This paper presents a brief description of this method and a specific example derived from actual experience."
"As electronic systems have grown larger, more complex and costly, the cost of support has made it necessary to place additional emphasis upon many aspects of reliability. Large ground-based support systems require costly maintenance and supply forces. It is shown that, through proper use of the failure statistics and engineering judgment, the addition of failure prediction equipment to an electronic system will help reduce system costs even though it is only partially employed."
"This paper discusses techniques for evaluating and predicting a connector's performance by appling the principles of stress analysis to individual sub-assemblies which ultimately make up a complete, functioning connector. The author discusses the relationship of environment to material and surmises that the resultant of environmental conditions is stress in materials which may ultimately cause a failure in connector performance. In other words, a connector may be evaluated on the basis of the materials used therein and the ability of these materials to withstand the environmental conditions imposed upon them."
"Several different and complex electromechanical and mechanical systems are shown to have remarkably similar rates of reliability improvement during system development. These similarities provide the basis for a learning curve which can be used to monitor development progress, predict growth patterns, and plan programs for reliability improvement."
"This study considers three cases, ideal, single point, and ground bus grounding networks. Theoretical analysis is developed by reduction to a composite network suitable in each case. Single point and ground bus grounding networks are evaluated in terms of ideal ground plane. Derivations of these possible networks are provided, with evaluations of these networks with respect to ideal. Derivation of a realizable equipotential plane when fed by two conductors spaced a finite distance apart is developed. Various simplification reducible to closed form are used to analyze the relative merits of a common ground bus versus a steel floor ground plane. Evaluation of the derived relations and their application to the real case including recommendations for improving current grounding practice is provided."
"The objective of the information presented is to spotlight those problem areas concerning the philosophy of electrical grounds or grounding. Material presented is based on: 1) missile testing and launch problems at the Atlantic Missile Range, and 2) personal studies, experiences, and observations of the author. The lack of a good grounding philosophy is evident from the material presented. The need for more attention to grounding needs during Basic System Design is emphasized. Some of the problems and factors involved are listed in the conclusions. Also, some recommendations for corrective improvement are offered."
"Transient response and limit cycle characteristics associated with a wide range of nonlinear sampled-data systems can be rigorously computed by implementing a straightforward numerical approach. Based upon the piecewise-linear analytical technique, a set of continuous open-loop equations are formulated to describe all analog system components. Digital and/or purely numerical processes are defined in terms of standard recursion formulae. The final analytical-routine consists of a combination of both analog and digital equations, written in a difference equation format; as such, the ultimate computational requirements are ideally suited for high speed electronic digital computer simulation. Physical system nonlinearities are reflected in corresponding nonlinear difference equation coefficients, while all time varying relationships and time delay parameters (transport lags, etc.) are easily incorporated within the framework of a digital computer program mechanization. The technique is demonstrated by means of an illustrative example. In particular, both the transient response profile and steady state limit cycle characteristics of a nonlinear sampled-data controller are computed by invoking a formalistic step-by-step procedure. A brief review of the sampled-data theory is presented through a qualitative description of the z-transform, sampler, zero order hold and digital compensator. A linear sampled-data follower is next analyzed, and the results compared to those obtained through conventional z-transform techniques. The extension to systems containing non-linearities at various positions within the loop is demonstrated."
"Design automation is replacing manual methods of making wiring diagrams and processing plans. Engineering data are now put on high speed computer tapes from which numerous listings are obtained. One of the more significant achievements has been the elimination of manufacturing redraw of engineering for production line drawings. Engineers are being freed from menial and repetitive duties and now have more time for creative design."
"A unique functional concept in the field of system display which allows rapid and effective communication of design information is introduced. This is to be accomplished through the presentation and explanation of a Single Line Functional Flow Diagram technique. The format is arranged along the same left-to-right flow lines traditionally associated with reading text. The component grouping into recognizable sub-groups follows the same principal as speed sight reading, thus providing the reader with schematics which can be rapidly and accurately read, rather than a puzzle which must be solved. The principle result is an improved engineering data approach which yields multi-purpose functional data suitable for direct application in many engineering and technical support areas without expensive rework."
"The importance of highly reliable operation of spacecraft systems requires detailed analyses of such systems to ensure that they are adequately designed to perform their intended functions. Various types of electrical systems analyses (Boolean Simulation, DC Circuit Worst Case, Small and Large Signal Transistor Transients, and Statistical) are described and discussed. Included are recommendations to indicate how suppliers of components and devices can contribute to the performance of more efficient and accurate systems analyses."
"A mathematical representation of a typical aerospace electric generation system is developed for solution using a digital rather than analog computer. The system consists of a gas turbine driving an electric generator and hydraulic pump. The representation of the speed, voltage, and temperature control loops is detailed. Of importance is the development of a format necessary for digital solution, and of a representation for transient power flow between the exciter and generator field in a brushless generator."
"By today's standards, the radioisotope-fueled thermoelectric generators launched in 1961 were both crude and heavy. Yet much of SNAP 3, as those units were designated, lives on in their progeny. This paper discusses SNAPs 3, 9A, 11 and the IMP (Interplanetary Monitoring Probe) generators, emphasizing the unique and developmental features of each, as well as those time-tested, operationally successful features which have remained unchanged after close official scrutiny."
"After a brief survey of proposed radioisotope conversion systems this paper presents in detail two systems particularly suited for microwatt power sources. First, a 10-9 ampere Kr85 ß current cell capable of tens of kilovolts now in limited production is presented, followed by a discussion of other possible future ß current cells. Second, some theoretical considerations of a Pm147 silicon electronvoltaic converter with an output in the range of 100 μA/cm2 at a few tenths of a volt are discussed. Some applications adapted to each system are also presented."
"The weight and efficiency of radioisotope thermoelectric space power supplies, using Plutonium-238, Curium-244 and Strontium-90 fuels, lead telluride and silicon germanium alloy thermoelectric systems, and ranging in power output from 30 to 300 electrical watts are presented. It is shown that there is a definite radiator temperature for which generator weight is minimum and that this temperature varies with fuel, thermoelectric conversion system and power level. In addition, the various factors governing the selection of a particular radioisotope power supply for a given mission are discussed."
"A preliminary design for a 360 watt radioisotope thermionic generator is presented. Curium 244 is used as the energy source; and the generator design concept allows for containment of the radioisotope under all possible conditions involving the earth. Provision is made for helium gas generated in the decay of Curium 244 (alpha emitter). For these conditions the proposed design has a maximum specific weight of 254 lb./KW. The results of this study indicate that radioisotope thermionics offers promise of a versatile, compact, light weight and reliable means of supplying electrical power in space."
"In order to understand better the interacting variables of the radioisotope fuel properties and the operating conditions for thermionic converters a parametric study was made of the heat source and system variables. Fuel bodies and converters of various geometric shapes were studied with planar, cylindrical, and spherical emitter surfaces. The problems relating to radiological safety and shielding of the isotope fuel were reviewed. Cost and availability information was obtained for some of the more promising isotope fuels. The results of this study show that there is no completely ideal radioisotope heat source for thermionic space power systems and that the more promising isotope fuels will require important compromises between system specific weight, radiation shielding, system efficiency, and isotope containment to produce usable space power systems."
"A nominal 14-watt solar thermoelectric generator utilizing thermal energy storage has been fabricated and tested. During operation, thermal energy was supplied to the unit for 55 minutes of each 90-minute cycle. The generator continued to supply electric power during the remaining 35-minutes utilizing the stored thermal energy. This cycle simulates a 300-mile earth orbit."
"The present nuclear thermionic power sub-system concepts are reviewed and the problem areas associated with each of the concepts are discussed. The development status of thermionic converters for nuclear applications is identified. It is concluded that extensive exploratory development must be accomplished before nuclear applications of thermionic converters are feasible."
"Completion of the Performance - Endurance solar test series climaxed an eleven month solar experimental program in support of the \"Cavity Vapor Generator\" (an assembly of 3 cesium vapor thermionic converters), at the G. E. Spacecraft Dept. Solar Test Facility, Phoenix, Arizona. The program included three segments: 1) calibration of the system components, 2) evaluation of the basic performance of the generator, and 3) Performance - Endurance development solar testing of the generator. Empirical results of the final two parts of the program are covered. A total of forty-nine solar test runs were performed, during which 129 hours were spent at temperatures above 1650°K. Data on generator efficiency, generator power, E-I characteristics, stability with life, misorientation effects, cavity performance (black body), energy balance, and cesium temperature optimization are presented."
"This paper presents the results of a study conducted to determine the use of a centralized thermoelectric cooling system to provide cooling for military avionic equipment. The system considered is a recirculatory system capable of cooling an avionic equipment compartment or a number of avionic equipment components from the centralized cooler. The results of the study indicate that the system is competitive on a weight basis with respect to contemporary subsonic avionic cooling systems in the range of from 2 to 4 kilowatts cooling capacity and that the system presents many attractive features for avionic equipment cooling."
"This paper presents information concerning applied research on promising new high temperature thermoelectric materials capable of operation to at least 1200°C*. Included are discussions of the basic materials characteristics, research conducted to obtain usable thermoelements, sublimation information, experimental model test data, and advanced thermoelectric components research. The basic thermoelectric materials are designated MCC 50**, p-type for 500-1200°C operation; MCC 60, n-type for 700-1200°C operation; and MCC 40, both p- and n-type for use to 950°C operation. Results of two years of effort include: (1) successful formation of contact junctions to MCC 40, 50, and 60; (2) successful fabrication and utilization of segmented p-n thermocouples; (3) 1000-hour sublimation and diffusion tests of individual elements and segmented p-n couples at temperature, which indicated no degradation of power producing capabilities; (4) 2500-hour evaluation of MCC 50 elements in a 5-watt experimental model with no degradation; (5) fabrication and preliminary evaluation of a 50-watt laboratory model using segmented p-n couples; and (6) promising results when using arc-plasma and flame-spray techniques for forming thermoelectric components."
"This paper covers the derivation of the factors related to the most effective use of thermoelectric materials for cooling and power generation. It is shown theoretically and verified experimentally that device performance is maintained constant independent of the amount of thermoelectric material used. A practical limit in this weight reduction exists, and is shown to be dependent upon the quality of the contact resistance obtained. Experiments with Bismuth Telluride alloys demonstrate a sizeable improvement is feasible in the cost and weight of thermoelectric devices. Performance figures of 1.3×106 watts/lb. generation, and 5×106btu/hr·lb. cooling are shown feasible."
"This paper reports the results of efforts to fabricate PbTe thermoelectric elements with a combination of high figure of merit and good shock resistance. Two partially successful approaches to this problem were the addition of tin to PbTe and the application of hot powder pressing. Experimental evidence is presented to show that when properly applied these two methods can produce thermoelectric couples which have higher figures of merit, are more durable, and can be produced more cheaply in quantity than couples made from cast PbTe elements."
"This paper describes the physical characteristics and electrical characteristics under ground-level natural sunlight conditions of four research solar cell panel types; namely, cadmium sulfide, gallium arsenide, dendritic silicon and a V-ridge concentrating panel utilizing conventional P on N silicon cells. These panels were designed, fabricated, and tested with intentions of including them in a solar cell panel orbital experiment planned and directed by the Research and Technology Division's Air Force Aero Propulsion Laboratory at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Furthermore, all research panel types except the V-ridge concentrating panel, were supplied through applied research programs in progress under the cognizance of the AF Aero Propulsion Laboratory. The V-ridge concentrating panels were supplied under a subcontract between the vehicle contractor (Lockheed Missiles and Space Company) and the Boeing Airplane Company."
"A large area concentrating solar cell panel, nominally 36 inches wide and 75 inches long, was designed and constructed to meet the requirements of a typical spacecraft environmental specification. The structural integrity was verified by laboratory structural tests, and the electrical-optical performance was determined by solar tests. The concentrating panel weighed 0.78 lbs/sq ft, developed 8.17 watts per sq ft under terrestrial test conditions, and exhibited a concentration ratio of 1.89."
"Radiation tests on bare N/P silicon solar cells and solar cells with various cover materials were performed with 1 Mev energy electrons for integrated fluxes up to 1016 e/cm2. The effect of electron irradiation upon the physical, electrical, optical, and thermal characteristics of the cells were analyzed and are presented in parametric form wherever practical. In particular, the changes with electron flux in the electrical output, and the temperature coefficients of the electrical output as well as the effect of the angle of incident radiation upon the output, have been investigated. The variations of spectral transmittance of cover materials and the spectral reflectance at angles of incidence between zero and 75 degrees were measured and the data compared to the electrical measurement results. The solar absorptance as a function of angle of incidence and the hemispherical emittance were calculated. All electrical measurements were performed under illumination closely approximating the spectrum of solar irradiation in outer space, and at the intensity of the solar constant. This is of particular importance when studying the effects of charged particle radiation, since the data thus obtained can be directly utilized for spacecraft solar array design."
"This paper reports on space station power requirements and an optimized solar cell power system, including some of the characteristics of the solar cell array, energy storage system, and power conditioning system. The cost and complexity is reduced by using lower cost cells, more efficient energy storage, power conditioning and power distribution systems, and by using a concentrator that can be wrapped around the vehicle for launch. Growth capability is obtained by adding a supplementary experimental power system for operational uses."
"This paper discusses the development and evaluation of a nondestructive inspection tool for measuring surface geometry of light concentrator solar cell panels. Because the panel surfaces could not be contacted for contamination purposes, conventional measuring method could not be used. A no-contact inspection method was, therefore, needed to assure required surface geometry at any point on the concentrator panel. The resultant tool, \"The Slit Image Profile Scope\", was developed to provide for this capability."
"This paper is directed toward a discussion of the design, development, and fabrication of solar cell measuring equipment. Such equipment was designed to accurately assess solar cell quality and provide the means of defining in-process sources contributing to cell losses or degradation. New and existing design concepts were utilized. Electronic instrumentation and components were selected on the basis of repeatability, high resolution, and accuracy. Advancement in cell-measuring technology was achieved on a \"pilot-line\" basis. Recommendations are included to improve further on existing design."
"This paper describes a method for estimating current and voltage of batteries as function of load characteristics and time, based on available battery characteristics that are measured at constant current. The synthesis is accomplished in three steps: determination of voltage - current characteristics of each combination of individual loads, determination of voltage - current characteristics of the battery for a range of states of discharge, and simultaneous graphical solution of these sets of characteristics."
"The chemical and electrical characteristics of the nickel-cadmium cell are related to the characteristics of the oxygen electrode, and the qualitative behavior of the three-electrode cell is predicted. Measurements are made on a three-electrode cell and show substantial agreement with predicted behavior. Measurement of the magnitude and threshold of appearance of the third electrode signal and the cell temperature shows that the state of charge at which the full charge signal appears is dependent upon cell temperature, and varies from 115 percent of rated capacity at 40°F to 25 percent of rated capacity at 1400°F."
"The design, experimental fabrication and environmental evaluation of a capillary type hydrogen-oxygen fuel cell has recently been completed. This unit is the first of several fuel cells to be developed as electrical power sources for extraterrestrial applications and it is hoped that information from this program will be of aid in other designs."
"Fuel battery systems have been evaluated as to their ability to reject heat while operating in earth orbit and at the 240°F temperature expected on the lunar equatorial surface at noon. Analysis of the earth orbiting condition has led to the conclusion that, if an adequate vehicle surface area is available, the temperature at which fuel battery is rejected is not a significant factor. Solutions to the lunar application have included high temperature components or heat rejection systems using the specific heat and latent heat of vaporization of gases and liquids. The use of geometrically designed radiators to provide for low temperature heat rejection under these hostile conditions represents an area where further study and evaluation can provide significant weight and simplicity advantages. Proper radiator design will allow a fuel battery system to operate at 140°F with a radiator whose total surface area is approximately 60 ft2/kw even when the most severe lunar thermal conditions are considered."
"The recent development of an efficient source of focussed, continuous visible and ultraviolet light has aroused interest in photoionization as a means of enhancing the conductivity in MHD channels. This process has been examined for applications in space MHD generators employing Brayton and Rankine cycles. It was evaluated with respect to some other methods of ionization including magnetically induced non-equilibrium ionization, R. F. ionization, electron beam ionization, and the Penning effect where it is applicable. For non-condensing systems the working fluids. considered were He, Ne, and A. For condensing cycles, the fluids were K, Na, Zn, and Li vapors. Small percentages of cesium vapor were added to the working fluids in order to provide seeding. The results indicate that for some cases of practical interest photoionization may be competitive or more efficient than the other methods. Efficiency of ionization was defined as (Pg - Pi)/Pg, where Pg is the MHD power density generated and Pi the power density required by the light source to produce the desired ionization. Pg was assumed to be 107 watts/m3. Details for an example of an MED space power generating system using this type of ionization will be presented."
"Low temperature NbSe2 has a layer structure of the NbS2 type. It is superconducting with a zero field transition temperature of about 6.0°K. Critical current measurements were made on single crystals at 4.20°K in fields up to 7250 gauss. The variation in critical current as a function of orientation in a constant applied magnetic field is interpreted in terms of demagnetization at low fields and structural anisotropy at high fields."
"An equivalent circuit for a distributed superconductive energy converter, the operation of which is based on the principle of flux conservation in superconducting loops, is presented. The Laplace transformation is used to analyze the circuit, and the solutions are examined in order to optimize the operation of the device. While previously only dc operation of such a device has been realized, it is shown herein that under certain conditions a low frequency ac mode can be achieved."
"The properties of superconducting materials appropriate for a discussion of their application in rotating machines are cited. The electrical, mechanical, and thermal losses that will occur in superconducting rotating machines are defined and estimated. The requirements for maintaining the cryogenic environment are given in terms of refrigerant use and in terms of refrigeration. Some estimates are given of refrigerator size and efficiency. The results of a circuit analysis of an alternator are given to define the maximum performance in terms of circuit parameters. The results of an electromagnetic field analysis are used to relate circuit parameters to geometry and material properties. On the basis of these analyses some estimates are made of the specific mass of alternators with superconducting armatures and with ambient temperature armatures. These results are combined with the results of the loss analysis to obtain the overall specific mass and efficiency of each alternator system. Finally, a proposed system is presented for a 1000 kVA turboalternator having a specific mass of 1.85 pounds per kilowatt including the gas turbine, and refrigerator."
"This paper compares the output power per unit weight of a rotating electric machine with a superconducting field to that of a conventional machine. A weight advantage of 12 to 1 is shown for the superconducting machine. Heat leaks into the low temperature environment are discussed and machine efficiency is analyzed considering refrigeration power as part of the machine losses. In certain applications, such as space propulsions systems employing cryogenic fuels, the superconducting machine offers a very great advantage over the conventional machine in both weight and efficiency."
"This paper describes a program directed toward eliminating the need for a stator seal in turbine-driven space power generators that are required to operate in an energy conversion loop using liquid metals such as mercury and potassium Stator seals may be one of the major development problems affecting the reliability and design of space power generators. The need for higher system reliability and improved generator design optimization is the compelling reason for the effort towards eliminating the stator seal requirement. Development of a generator insulation system and winding configuration that permits direct exposure of the generator stator to a liquid-metal-vapor environment was the initial objective of the program, and development of a generator that incorporates the unsealed stator concept is the ultimate program objective."
"The solid rotor inductor alternator possesses features which suit it for space power applications. This paper describes this type of converter and explains how space environment requirements are met by inductor features. The effects of space power requirements on the electromagnetic nature of the machine is reviewed, and certain power quality trends are projected."
"This paper presents a brief description of the SNAP-8 electrical-system design changes and provides a broad perspective of the overall system changes incorporated early in 1963. These modifications made feasible a modular approach to component and subsystem development, provided greater system development flexibility, and permitted the application of much presently available electrical technology. The rotating speed was changed from 20,000 to 12,000 revolutions per minute (rpm) resulting in a change of system frequency from 1,000 to 400 cycles per second (cps). The alternator and the regulator were removed from the high-temperature and mercury-vapor environment. The mercury lubrication and cooling concept was replaced with organic-fluid lubrication and a low-temperature cooling loop was added to the system. Significant development problems still exist, however. There remains the requirement for 10,000-hours minimum life in the space and nuclear environment, coupled with extremely high reliability objectives."
"This paper describes a solar-powered, closed-Brayton-cycle power system and its application to manned space stations. The power system has been designed to meet the following objectives: 1. Utilization of presently available design techniques and standard materials. 2. High reliability. 3. Short development period. 4. Low costs. 5. Adaptability for launch by the Atlas, Titan, and Saturn class vehicles. The system described meets all of these objectives. In addition, it is flexible enough in design that a single set of dynamic rotating components can be used over a 10:1 power range. The heat-transfer components, which are modular in design, can be sized to meet the required power level."
"The Nadyne generator utilizes a solid steel salient pole rotor having magnetic poles of alternate north and south polarity. The stator does not require magnetic insulation from the magnetic housing as required for some other solid rotor type generators. Results of studies are presented in curve form. The data shows that the Nadyne generator performance is equivalent to the wound rotor salient pole type and that weight reductions are possible by operating at higher speeds."
"Based on the concept of the magnetic vector potential the partial differential equations and the boundary conditions of the electromagnetic field in the different regions in the cross section of heteropolar machines are developed. These are transformed into finite difference equations, that do not neglect iron non-linearities and the effect of current carrying regions. A method of finding a numerical solution for the vector potential and for the magnetic induction is explained. A simplified cross-section of a synchronous generator is used to illustrate the application of the method."
"The two dimensional, non-linear potential equation for saturated homopolar generators is established in circular cylindrical coordinates. The boundary conditions are discussed. The partial differential equation and the boundary conditions are transformed into difference form as preparation for a computer program. A non-uniform polar system of meshes is described and the difference formulae for these is given. The flow chart of a computer program applicable to an IBM 7090 computer is diagrammed. Over-relaxation and alternating direction relaxation techniques are explained. The flux distribution at no-load in a 95 KVA, 115/200 V, 3,400 cps three phase alternator is found with this program. Computed results compare very closely with test results."
"This paper analyzes the rotating-rectifier type aircraft generator with its exciter and rectifier from the standpoint of its role as an element in a closed loop regulating system. It discusses the transfer characteristics of the brushless generator system in relation to its normal design parameters and its performance characteristics and presents data, largely in graphical form, for use in calculating the transfer characteristics. Further, it describes the very significant influence of the rectifier system on these characteristics."
"A former paper of the authors is extended to find the radial component of the magnetic induction in the airgap of homopolar alternators when supplying balanced loads. The armature currents are represented by sinusoidal current sheets at the stator bore. The partial differential equations, the boundary conditions, and the method of solution are reviewed. Numerical results were obtained for a 95 KVA, 115/200 v., 3,400 cps developmental homopolar alternator. Equations for the calculations of the armature impedances are given. A phasor diagram for the finding of the terminal voltage of the alternator at balanced loads is explained. Calculated results compare well with tests."
"The effect of slotting not considered in previous papers, is analyzed by taking into account the actual slots of the stator. The equations and methods of Ref.l and 2 are used with some modifications. The boundary conditions at no-load on the lines of symmetry have been replaced by the value of the potentials and thus, improved convergence has been achieved. The flow chart of the main program for an IBM 7090 and the flow chart of an IBM 1620 program for calculating the potentials on the lines of symmetry are given. In a simplified solution, the actual slotted region is replaced by a smooth airgap and an equivalent \" synthetic\" region of homogeneous iron. The methods are used to calculate the no-load flux distribution and no-load voltage of a 95 KVA, three-phase 115/200 v, 3,400 cps., high-speed inductor alternator. The fundamentals and higher harmonics of the different solutions are compared. Calculated no-load voltages compare with test results very closely."
"This paper presents the results of a study program in which various approaches to the design of an a-c electric power system for a supersonic transport were considered. Transmission of power at higher than normal generated voltages, with assumed feeder lengths of both 100 feet and 180 feet, was evaluated to determine weight reductions to be expected and the effect on system losses. Both constant-speed, constant-frequency systems and variable-speed, constant-frequency type systems were considered. The study was based on a 160 kva system with four 40 kva channels."
"This paper presents and discusses the performance data obtained in testing a 30 KVA aircraft generating system of the variable speed constant frequency (VSCF) type. The observed test results are compared with typical data from more conventional generating systems employing hydraulic constant speed drives and constant speed generators. Areas of performance such as voltage and frequency control, dc voltage content, voltage and frequency modulation and parallel operation of VSCF systems are emphasized."
"This paper discusses the suitability of four different generating systems for a hypothetical aircraft requiring 25 KVA of ac electric power, 5 KVA of which must be at constant frequency. The systems are examined in terms of weight and relative reliability using data representative of similar components on existing applications. The lightest, most reliable, system of those compared supplies all of its power at constant frequency."
"Results are described of a development program for design and manufacture of a power system for an electron-beam welder to be used for joining materials in space. Consideration has been given to the sources of power for the welding operations, the environmental and human influences on equipment design, and actual design of the equipment using state-of-the-art components. The eqaipment includes a power pack containing a battery and main inverter, a high voltage power supply, and a control console containing a control inverter, a constant current lens supply, and all necessary controls for the welding operations. The results of weight reduction analysis are described, including the effects of duty cycle operation and operation at high frequency."
"Controlled Current Feedback Transformers (CCFT) are used to achieve optimum efficiency in a transistorized static inverter for the Apollo Command Module. Base-drive is established instantaneously as a predetermined function of collector current and of minimum beta. Techniques for steering the CCFT are incorporated in a circuit which synthesizes in one power transformer a 3-phase, stepped-voltage output of low harmonic content before filtering. A buck-boost voltage regulator is used to accomplish high performance with fewer power transistors."
"A new d-c to a-c inverter has been developed. Sine wave power at 400 cps is provided without a 400 cps filter or 400 cps transformer. A bridge type chopper circuit, chopping at 50 KC, is used to provide the a-c power. The bridge-chopper inverter is approximately 1/3 the size and weight of present sine wave inverters used in most aircraft and space applications. The inverter is more efficient than most sine-wave inverters (85 to 90% at 100 watts 50% power factor). The sine-wave output is provided by time-ratio control. Applications of the inverter include power supplies for aircraft, space craft, ships, submarines, etc. These power supplies operate from d-c power sources such as fuel cells, solar cells, nuclear thermionic converters, batteries, etc. The new inverter is made practical by new high speed transistors that are applied with new control techniques. Fast switching in the power circuit makes the 50 KC chopping rate practical. New control techniques using tunnel diodes permit fast switching of the power transistors and permit use of insulated controls. Saturable reactors and transformers are used in the control circuit with current rise time of approximately two microseconds. The tunnel diode circuit, controlled by the saturable reactors, switches the base current of the power transistor in 0.02 micro-seconds. In turn, the chopper power transistor switches five amperes in less than 0.1 micro-second. This paper presents the bridge chopper inverter, showing its operation, and describes the control technique."
"Static inverters are used in many applications where continuous voltage must be converted to alternating voltage, such as no break and emergency ac power supplies. Switching semiconductors are the usual means of producing the alternating voltage. Currents in the semiconductors and the dc source are of interest to both the designer and user of the inverter. Analytical means are used to derive quantitative expressions for current values of interest in a typical inverter circuit."
"A unique form of motor-generator set has been applied as an isolating device in the power system of a space vehicle. The M-G set acts as a buffer, i. e., it isolates electronic circuitry comprising the inertial guidance system from primary power line transients. The set consists of: an extremely low slip polyphase induction motor driving a unique brushless A-C generator; and an integral voltage regulator. This paper describes the rotating machinery portions of a typical set."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"An oral presentation can be a very effective means of conveying ideas to others. Well planned presentations assure audience understanding and idea retention, and are most effective when the spoken word is complemented by a well designed visual aid. Poor preparation or poor use of aids can detract from rather than help the communications process. Preparation of an effective presentation involves four steps: planning, writing, rehearsing, and readying. Checklists can be of help during preparation."
"A design is proposed for a simple, inexpensive, accurate accelerometer (velocity meter) providing a discrete output signal for data-processing applications. The basic design is a digitally-rebalanced accelerometer mechanism operating in a closed-loop configuration and internally incorporating a simple digital transducer. The resulting design yields an instrument whose resolution is independent of accelerometer parameters. The fundamental details are described and the mathematical model of the instrument is analyzed by piecewise-linear, time domain techniques. The results of an analog simulation are also presented, verifying the analysis. In addition, an example design for the digital transducer and a design for the digital computer input section to process the accelerometer output are proposed in the accompanying appendices."
"This paper presents a philosophy of semiautomatic checkout, along with a description of the Mark 6 (Titan II) Re-entry Vehicle Test Set. This test set is used for testing both R&D and Operational Re-entry Vehicles. Included is a discussion of checkout philosophy as it affects the test set, circuit concepts, operation, trouble-shooting, packaging and maintenance concepts. This checkout philosophy was used as a basis for testing medium complexity vehicles where the checkout time is not extremely critical."
"The engineer today has a greater responsibility than ever before in his contribution to technical documentation. This responsibility has a number of facets. First, there is the obligation to himself in the furtherance of his career. Then there is the duty to his company in the fulfillment of his assignments. Finally, there is his accountability to the scientific community. It is the purpose of this paper to point out some of the ways in which the engineer can discharge these obligations. There is no easy road from engineer to writer, and the techniques discussed here do not pretend to achieve this end. The purpose of this paper is to point out the ways in which the engineer can improve his documentation output and thus enhance not only his image in the eyes of his supervisors, but also the company's image in the eyes of the customer. Man is innately ambitious. He has a desire to advance materially and socially, and such an advance is usually achieved as a result of universal recognition of his capabilities. In other occupations, this recognition is achieved through advertising and/or public-relations campaigns. The engineer is often not aware of the advertising potential of his documentation efforts, and therefore he often neglects this important approach to recognition. The success of an engineer's employer bears directly upon the prospects of the engineer. Basically, the engineer must do good engineering to help his company prosper."
"Many articles and papers have been written about proposals, i.e., how to write proposals, how to sell in proposals, the importance of proposals, the do's and don'ts in proposal writing, etc. However, few, if any, are directed specifically at the engineer and his problems. The purpose of the subject paper is to define the role of the engineer in preparing proposals. It includes definitions of the different types of proposals, their respective importance, and the engineer's place in the proposal team. The paper goes on to discuss the anatomy of a proposal, the contribution the engineer is expected to make, and the engineer's responsibilities in providing his contribution. The paper is concluded with a list of recommendations to help an engineer prepare himself so that he can make a positive contribution in preparing successful proposals."
"The continued growth of technological industries, especially the aerospace and electronics industries, is ever dependent upon engineers and managers with creative abilities. Today, when industrial progress and the very security of our nation depend on the ability to widen the frontiers of knowledge, a strong effort must be exerted by schools to organize new educational programs to bridge the gap between research and applications. The Polytechnic has pioneered in many aspects of advanced education. Its School of Graduate Studies is one of the largest in the country. Over 3,000 graduate students attend its programs offered at the Brooklyn Campus and at the Graduate Center in Farmingdale. The Graduate Center was established in 1961 and provides unique opportunities for advanced space-age education. It is located in the heart of the aerospace and electronics industries of Long Island and its programs are attended by 1200 students. The need to experiment with specialized programs for updating professional engineers led to the creation of the Office of Continuing Professional Studies. Through this office, the Polytechnic makes available a wide variety of accelerated programs to assist industrial personnel. The stress on engineering doctoral studies has resulted in a cooperative program between the Polytechnic and the General Electric Company which incorporates many unique features. The program is experimental and represents a real attempt to solve the problem of earning advanced degrees within a reasonable period of time in several branches of modern engineering."
"The Drexel-Martin program is a not-on-campus graduate program established in 1956 in Baltimore for the purpose of offering advanced studies leading to the degree of Master of Science in certain fields of science and engineering. The courses are held in the late afternoon or early evening in the facilities of the Kenwood High School, located near the Martin plant. The enrollment for the current year is 238 students distributed between Aerospace Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Physics and Engineering Management. While the majority of the students are employees of the Martin Company, some students come from other industries in the area. Some of the details of operation as well as proposed criteria for this type of program are presented."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Equations for vector addition, vector cross products, and vector differentiation are represented in signal-flow-graph form, and are used to obtain signal flow graphs of the (tensor) equations of rotating rigid bodies. These signal flow graphs, in turn, are then applied to the analysis of several simple gyroscopic devices."
"By proper design of windings and core, it is possible to operate a linear variable differential transformer with its core in a saturating condition. In this condition, its rectified output voltage is essentially independent of exciting current over a wide range thus avoiding the need for supply voltage regulation in many applications. Design considerations, performance characteristics and a means of reducing the variation of output with supply frequency are discussed."
"Employing a large number of optical and electrical input signals an automatic test system is proposed which rapidly samples the test data from an operating ensemble and which then displays the data in block form so that interpretation is made on the basis of pattern recognition. The display is via a cathode ray tube which is operated in a TV mode so that the displayed test data can be continuously and rapidly up-dated. By means of rear ports in the CRT it is shown how failure patterns can be recorded on film and preserved to make the test system self-programming, thereby overcoming one of the major obstacles in presently conceived automatic test systems."
"A data processing system, designed specifically to accommodate the vehicle instrumentation test requirements of a large environmental space simulation chamber is described. Prominent features of the system include a versatile input section capable of accepting FM/FM, PCM, PAM/PDM telemetry signals, and analog information; a stored program analog sequencer and telemetry decommutator: a data compressor; and an on-line computer. Primary emphasis in system design has been placed on flexibility and versatility. Reasons for this emphasis are presented with views on system utilization."
"Measurement errors are discussed from a statistical viewpoint to form a basis for their consideration in measurement analyses. In particular, this paper (1) justifies the use of normal probabilitydensity distributions to describe measurement errors (2) derives expressions which describe the overall measurement error (3) examines the use of probability density distributions which view the true value as distributed about the measured value rather than the more conventional way of viewing the measured value as distributed about the true value (4) relates the conventional expression of measurement accuracy to the probability density distribution describing the measurement error and (5) discusses the numerical evaluation of measurement accuracy."
"Two basic questions for aerospace reliability engineers are: a) are component failure rates estimated from systems tests coming from the same population of rates as those obtained when the components were not functioning in the \"total systems\" environment, and; b) if the populations are different, what are the phenomena whose presence are altering the population and how can they be operationally controlled? In this paper the concept of destructive interaction as a stochastic process is introduced. A method is developed for concluding whether or not it is reasonable to suppose that destructive interaction is present in a functioning system and to estimate the intensity of the process. A procedure for incorporating interaction processes into system simulations is then discussed. The relationship between interaction processes and the independence assumption of component operation is analyzed."
"Nonlinear servo analysis is applied to a free running regulator. Steady state performance is determined using a modified sinusoidal describing function approach. Gain-phase plots provide a graphical analog. Transient analysis is accomplished using phase plane techniques. Complete analysis - steady state and transient -- is performed for a basic regulator and for an active output filter version. Results are applicable to specific requirements."
"In the magnetic simulation of space for the testing of spacecraft, a system of four square coils has structural advantages over the more usual circular coils especially for very large coil systems. Theoretical expressions and computed results are presented for the parameters of the possible four-square-coil systems, particularly for the practical ones having integral turns-ratios. Contours of flux density for the system having unity turns-ratio indicate the degree of circumferential variation present."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Learning is facilitated when subject matter is presented in extremely small segments and the student is stimulated to respond immediately, with review material at frequent but increasingly long intervals, with immediate confirmation for correct responses. This is the basis of programmed instruction. The effect of increased amounts of review on the learning of elementary electrical engineering material was studied in the experiment reported here. Significant improvements in performance on a criterion test were obtained by increasing the amount of review material, even though many electrical engineering educators felt the amount of review was excessive before adding the new material. Programs in vector algebra and static magnetic fields were written with 150 and 121 frames, respectively. Additional reviews approximately doubling the length of the programs were then provided. The class in Field Bases of Electrical Engineering at The University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, was divided into groups which received programs of different lengths. At the completion of the programs, all students were given the same criterion test. The significant improvement caused by the added review material was not present for those students with enough knowledge of vector algebra so that the program itself was a review."
"Electrical impedance is usually defined in terms of alternating-current steady-state values of current and voltage. When network problems are approached using the Laplace transformation, impedance takes on a different character, as now both transient and steady-state currents and voltages are considered. It is therefore useful to develop a general expression for impedance in the form of a time domain operator. This operator is a rational function in powers of the differential operator D=d/dt. One can then show that the phasor and Laplace transform expressions for impedance are compatible."
"A set of network equations are developed which are more general than the loop or node equations and which include the loop and node equations as special cases."
"Essential to a firm theoretical basis for the mathematical theory of one-ports, as it is presently constituted, is some knowledge of the theory of functions of a complex variable. In terms of quadratic forms and the rudiments of mapping in the complex plane, this paper presents an algebraic basis for the study of RL-, RC-, and LC-one-port driving functions which circumvents, for the most part, use of function theory. Undergraduates, even earlier than the senior year, have sufficient mathematical maturity to fully understand the concepts."
"This paper considers the delta function from all points of view. Dirac's original definition is given, and, from this, some approximate delta functions are considered. The delta function is developed in great detail from the theory-of-distributions point of view. Many basic properties of the delta function and of higher-order delta functions are developed, and these are applied to Fourier series, sampling, and network problems."
"This paper presents a systematic procedure for the analysis of sinusoidal feedback oscillators. The approach is a unified one in the sense that tubes and transistors are considered simultaneously and in that the various oscillators are categorized into families for purposes of analysis. Emphasis is placed on relationships characteristic of sinusoidal feedback oscillators in order to satisfy the teaching need for a precise comprehensive treatment of such circuits. Too often the authors of electronics textbooks stress the analysis of specific oscillatory circuits, with the result that the fundamental principles involved are largely suppressed."
"This paper demonstrates by a case history the feasibility of the program in mathematics recommended for all undergraduates in engineering by the Committee on the Undergraduate Program in Mathematics (CUPM) of the Mathematical Association of America. The case history is that of the mathematics program at the United States Military Academy, and it is a practical example of the program recommended by the CUPM. In main outline the CUPM recommends that the courses required for all undergraduates in engineering should include 12 hours of basic analysis (calculus and differential equations with content recognizing electronic digital computation), 3 hours of linear algebra, and 3 hours of probability and statistics. Substantially, this program is completed during the first two years by all cadets who graduate from the Military Academy. During their third and fourth years they may take additional courses on an elective basis, these being of the type recommended by the CUPM for students intending to go into research and development."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"It is generally recognized that the theory of probability should no longer be treated as adjunct to a course in statistics or reliability but must be taught as a basic discipline, a prerequisite for several courses. In teaching the subject one must overcome an initial obstacle. In public schools and even in colleges, students learn that the universe evolves according to deterministic laws that specify completely its future, and a probabilistic description of its evolution is needed only because of our ignorance. This deep-rooted skepticism in the validity of probabilistic results can be overcome only by a proper interpretation of the meaning of probability. In this paper we attempt to present and analyze the various definitions and their role in a probability course."
"Every engineer uses the term \"reliability,\" but specific usages too often betray a concept based on folklore rather than upon available techniques for accurate determination. Burdened as the curriculum is today, exact definition and some applications of reliability must be included."
"During the past few years, I have developed a couple dozen problems in Electrical Engineering which are somewhat unusual. The problems are written around a situation similar to case studies as employed in Business Schools. I try with some introductory comments to project the student into a \"real life\" situation and then lead him through a series of step-at-a-time solutions. One of the purposes of the situation problems is to heighten the student's interest and thereby increase his motivation. Additionally, the student learns to follow through a lengthy line of reasoning and related engineering design. Since the problems frequently require the full use of broad prior knowledge, the student learns to integrate together a number of subjects. In this respect, the problems help to augment his laboratory experience. The situation problems typically require a considerable amount of time both by the student in solving and by the instructor in grading. Occasionally, the problems are done in groups or as class exercises. The problem answers follow sequentially and initial errors are propagated. This is justified as being a \"real life\" experience and therefore valuable to the student in teaching him to work accurately The over-all student reaction has, I feel, been quite favorable. In discussing the solutions, the instructor has an opportunity to interpolate numerous comments, as appropriate, concerning analysis, approximations, and engineering design philosophy. The following situation problem on \"Transistorized Low-Frequency Class C Amplifier\" was recently prepared."
"This paper describes the analog computer laboratory at the Pennsylvania State University, Electrical Engineering Department, and presents a discussion of the educational value of the laboratory. The discussion covers what seven years of experience in operating the laboratory have revealed concerning its relationship to the curriculum as a whole and to the development of the student as an individual. The philosophy behind the laboratory is described and a typical outline of a course developed around the laboratory is presented."
"Lur'e's method in constructing Liapunov functions is well known. For a higher order feedback system, however, the last steps of his process is not very practical. This paper attempts to offer a method for solving the nonlinear algebraic equations by using the analog computer instead of finding the sufficient conditions. Thus a Liapunov function can be constructed which is not easily obtained by his original technique."
"Graphical solution methods are particularly valuable for the insight given the student being introduced to the subject of nonlinear systems analysis. The author has found the δ-method to be one of the most attractive methods to his students, because of its conceptual simplicity. The δ-method, however, appears to be somewhat less than ideal, in the following sense. The solution to the system equation is obtained as a sequence of circular arcs, but the approximate solution only matches the slope of the actual solution at a number of points. The graphical information which the curvature of the arcs can convey is not being utilized. If circular arcs are to be used, then it is exceedingly reasonable to seek a modification to the δ-method which provides an approximate solution that matches both the slope and the curvature of the actual solution at a number of points. The following note provides a development of the δ-method which is amenable to modification and a presentation of the modification which adds curvature matching to the solution process."
"It is more important that the courses in humanities taken by students of engineering stimulate their further curiosity and interest than it is to inform them concerning specific facts and ideas. On the other hand the approach in such courses must be intellectually challenging and rigorous. The effects of such education in the humanities are likely to depend far more on the quality of instruction than on the quantity of course work that is required."
"Freshman and sophomore engineering students participated in an exploratory Group Counseling Program designed to help them strengthen their academic achievement, increase their understanding of the engineer's professional role in society, clarify their career goals, and improve their self-understanding and personal-social adjustment. The program included special attention for underachieving students. Leadership was provided by advanced master's and doctoral candidates from the College of Education who had related academic and professional experience in the area of counseling and guidance. The explanation of the results includes both a description of certain common characteristics which seem to typify engineering students and a summary of the curricular, administrative, and student personnel implications of the findings."
"The continuing education of engineers throughout General Electric has been studied to determine its effectiveness in combating technical obsolescence. Better guidance of updating programs is needed and is resulting from experience with a six-week refresher course for engineering managers and a new doctoral program. Personalized education programs are recommended which use many varieties of learning and which permit the continuous updating of large numbers of students."
"Application of root-locus techniques to the familiar transformer-coupled tuned circuit accurately locates the poles of the transfer function as a function of the coefficient of coupling, thus enabling the frequency response to be found easily by graphical zero-pole techniques. The locus is seen to be a circle centered on the negative real axis, and this explains the fact that the lower frequency peak in the undercoupled case is greater than the higher frequency peak, a phenomenon which is not explained by the usual algebraic approximations. This ties theory and experimental results together nicely and gives an engineering student motivation and practice in the use of root-locus techniques in circuit analysis."
"A root-locus plotting machine built from inexpensive components is described. The device is primarily for demonstrational use but may be used for design as well. The plotting board, mounted vertically on a dolly (which houses the auxiliary equipment) measures three by four feet. This makes the device useful even in large classrooms. A worked-out example is included."
"Details are given of an experiment involving a second order linear electro-mechanical system. Included is a discussion of the problem, the equipment that has been devised for experimental study of the performance, and the results that are obtained with the apparatus. Some detail is included of the report that is expected of the student. The equipment works well and a very meaningful experiment results. In addition, the student has the opportunity to become familiar with, and use good quality instrumentation."
"The establishment of a short-circuit testing laboratory in an educational institution is quite an innovation, particularly in an area of the world where the conventional high power switchgear testing laboratory is non-existent. Affording postgraduate training and research in arc phenomena and the scientific development of arc extinction devices, this excellent facility will provide the country with switchgear engineers and contribute to the design and local manufacture of modem switchgear. Although minimal in rating, the design of the laboratory, particularly the generator, controls, and instrumentation presented a number of unique problems, since it was most desirable to minimize the loss of short-circuit power in the test circuit. These special features and characteristics of the principal apparatus are described in this paper."
"Franklin's scientific contributions to electrical theory are reviewed. His standing in Europe as a scientist is considered in relation to his reputation as a publisher and statesman. Some biographical anecdotes which relate to Franklin, the scientist, are included."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A method is described by which homogeneous partial differential equations with double sided boundary conditions specified over infinite regions are solved. The equations are completely transformed with respect to all of the independent variables, and the resultant algebraic expression is solved with the use of singularity functions. The boundary conditions are incorporated in the inverse transformation of the singularity function transforms."
"The trouble with numbers is that they are fictitious characters. Just a few hundred years ago negative numbers were indeed called fictitious, and more recent times have witnessed the advent of imaginary numbers and the so-called hypercomplex numbers, the latter not being numbers at all."
"Three nomographs are presented, illustrating the transformation of velocities from one inertial reference frame to another which is moving in uniform translation with respect to the first. These charts can conveniently be used as teaching aids in the instruction of the special theory of relativity."
"The significant fact about creativity training for engineers in the past is that it was retarded by the widely held concept that creative aptitude could only be born, not developed. This attitude was largely dispelled by Osborn's intensive campaign to promote \"Brainstorming,\" his recommended technique for developing creativity. The significant thing about creativity training at present is that our understanding of the mental processes involved is developing rapidly with the current advances in computers, psychology, and bionics. This will provide solid foundation for developing effective curricula in creativity training. In the future technological advances will become more and more complex, and more and more scientifically sophisticated. To cope with this, it will not be enough to train engineers in the whole mental process of creativity. It will also be necessary to train specialists in each stage of that mental process, conceptual design, feasibility study, system design and development, subsystem development, etc. This paper develops the above points in detail and concludes with the framework for a suggested on-the-job creativity training program."
"Because of the exponential growth of science and technology, the engineering student cannot hope to take more than a small sub-set of the many engineering courses available to him. The question often arises about the degree to which engineering students should find room in their cramped study schedule for work in the humanities, the social sciences, and other nonengineering topics. The engineer is faced with making value decisions in the realistic practice of his profession. In this paper, it is shown that making value decisions is inherent in the design process itself. It is also shown that the engineer's position in modem society is often at the right hand of major decision makers. Since many engineers are in a position where they cannot avoid sharing responsibility for decisions affecting social, political, and economic change, serious training in these areas appears desirable."
"This paper describes the development of a laboratory for teaching modern communication principles to undergraduate and postgraduate electrical engineering students. The paper discusses the purpose and scope of the laboratory program, special equipment developed for the laboratory, typical lab problems, and concludes with a preliminary evaluation of the usefulness of the program."
"The paper considers the basic electrical operation of thermionic generators from first principles. After reviewing the basic ideas of diode generation, the process of thermionic emission and the effects of contact potentials and biased contacts are discussed. An idealized model of the generator is set up neglecting the effects of space charges, and the various potential diagrams are developed using a critical point related to the contact potential, at which the generator characteristics show a sharp discontinuity. A graphical presentation of the output characteristics is developed on which load lines can be drawn to determine performance details. The affects of the space charge within the electrode gap and the various resistances within the device are considered as perturbations of the idealized model. Various ways of minimizing the deleterious effects of the space charge are discussed. These are the use of a small gap, combined electric and magnetic fields, and ion compensation using resonance ionization."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The advent of indexing schemes (many of them automated) that rely upon the words appearing in the title of a technical document has made the meticulous writing of titles more important than ever. Much of the effectiveness of such indexing - and thus the probability of efficient retrieval by readers later on-depends upon the care and the accuracy with which the author originally wrote his title. Described here are approaches to titling technical papers suggested by a technical library."
"The specifications engineers develop the specification from raw data; edit the original draft; discuss the final draft with the engineer; rewrite as necessary; double check; rewrite with the engineer (if necessary); see the final document typed; deliver it to the engineer for final review and sign-off; initiate and monitor reproduction, collate, bind and deliver a document indicative of the prestige and quality of the company to the customer. All of these services can be performed by personnel especially trained to cope with the intimate and time-consuming problems of the specification task. It is well to remember in this era of specialization that a Specifications Engineer is a specialist trained in specifications design."
"Machine literature search techniques have gained wide interest as solutions to the information handling problem since 1957. Feasible machine methods were used before this time, but wide acceptance and implementation has been of recent date. This subject-classified bibliography of the world's literature for the 1957-1961 period is concerned with various aspects of mechanizing storage and retrieval of documented information. Materials cited here have been drawn from sources usually exploited in larg-e U.S. libraries, and deal with the specialized technology of documentation; including its functions of indexing, coding, staffing, systems design, and computing facilities. English, French, and German predominate as the languages of technical discourse; however the English version of a citation for a given item has been preferred to others."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"EWS is one of a few selected Groups within IEEE that is now voluntarily cooperating with the IEEE Information Retrieval Subcommittee in the publication of \"catalog cards\" for each full-length paper that appears in each issue. Note that these cards are printed on one side of the page only, so that they may be readily clipped out and pasted to a standard 3x5 file card. Each catalog card contains a complete citation to the paper, plus a brief abstract and index terms to describe the paper. Space is left for an accession or file number that the reader may add, if desired, to fit the card to his own retrieval system. This philosophy of \"source indexing\" (done in advance for readers of the journal) is in line with a program that has been under study for some time by the Engineer's Joint Council, of which the IEEE is a member. In addition, Transactions on EWS is being made available to the IEEE Information Retrieval Subcommittee as a publications medium for papers, correspondence items, and other material relating to this major study program which may well profoundly affect the manner in which IEEE literature is handled in the future. These catalog cards are a beginning step in that long-range program, which is exploring areas such as mechanized indexing, demand reproduction of papers (published and unpublished), selective dissemination of published material and/or announcements of its availability, etc. - in short, all aspects of the problems of organizing, storing, and retrieving the technical literature in the fields of interest to IEEE."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In a former issue of PTGEWS TRANSACTIONS (Vol. 6, No. 2, December 1963) Mr. J. Richard Johnson, of Bell Laboratories, raised an important and controversial issue for current engineering writing; and his thesis is one which commands the attention of both engineering-publications personnel and engineers alike. The comments herein point up some of the functions of publications personnel (especially technical writers and editors) who serve in an \"engineering support\" capacity and, at the same time, critically examine in detail some of Mr. Johnson's statements."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"EWS is one of a few selected Groups within IEEE that is now voluntarily cooperating with the IEEE Information Retrieval Subcommittee in the publication of \"catalog cards\" for each full-length paper that appears in each issue. Note that these cards are printed on one side of the page only, so that they may be readily clipped out and pasted to a standard 3x5 file card. Each catalog card contains a complete citation to the paper, plus a brief abstract and index terms to describe the paper. Space is left for an accession or file number that the reader may add, if desired, to fit the card to his own retrieval system. This philosophy of \"source indexing\" (done in advance for readers of the journal) is in line with a program that has been under study for some time by the Engineer's Joint Council, of which the IEEE is a member. In addition, Transactions on EWS is being made available to the IEEE Information Retrieval Subcommittee as a publications medium for papers, correspondence items, and other material relating to this major study program which may well profoundly affect the manner in which IEEE literature is handled in the future. These catalog cards are a beginning step in that long-range program, which is exploring areas such as mechanized indexing, demand reproduction of papers (published and unpublished), selective dissemination of published material and/or announcements of its availability, etc. - in short, all aspects of the problems of organizing, storing, and retrieving the technical literature in the fields of interest to IEEE."
"Advertisement."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A more discursive style-one that is relaxed and marked with personal pronouns and active-voice constructions-has been the subject of recent modest experiments at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Early results indicate that such a style is more readable, more interesting, and probably a better vehicle for transmitting information from one mind to another."
"Communication between the \"two cultures\" (science and technology on one hand and the rest of the intellectual world on the other) is breaking down, and the result is a dangerously widening gulf which can be bridged only by people who are more or less at home in both cultures. We need to reform our educational system so that the education of the gifted can be concentrated and accelerated, and so that specialization follows or accompanies liberal education instead of superseding it. Liberally educated engineers are ideally situated to communicate with scientists on one hand and educated laymen on the other; they can set an example as a professional group on speaking terms with both worlds."
"A simple and efficient method of handling references in papers by using acronyms is reported here. The method saves labor for writers and space in publications. Authors are expressed by letters before a hyphen. Following the hyphen, books are represented by capitalizing the first letter, as in Wi-C, or a few more letters together with lower case letters, as in Fl-DiFo and C-SyLiCoN. Papers are represented only by lower case letters, as in SchaT-iom and Ma-sorrm. Individually available reports are expressed by an upper case letter followed only by lower case letters, as in OLK-Apf."
"This paper reports the significant results of the Seminar on Writing-Improvement Programs for Engineers held in New York City on February 24-25, 1964. It includes an evaluation of the degree of need for better writing by engineers, as well as the specific areas that need attention. It summarizes the major features of various writing-improvement programs described at the seminar, covering both subject content and administration. It concludes with a consensus of the views of both the speakers and the audience at the seminar as to the effectiveness of the training programs described, together with the recommendations developed for future action."
"Evidence indicates that electronic trade magazines have earned acceptance as a most important source of technical information for electronic engineers. Whether they can continue to fill this role will depend upon how they meet the challenge of a changing technology and other critical problems. There has been a great outpouring of technical articles and papers, but industry is finding that a great deal of it is irretrievable. The fault is in the conventional filing systems, for one, but the nature of the material also plays a significant role. Articles appearing in trade magazines have largely dealt with \"problem-solving,\" but we are now concerned more with questions than with answers. Authors must do more than merely describe how to design the circuit. They must also explain how it will be used, the latest components available, the testing procedures, and possibly, even the availability and price of materials. A second problem is one of semantics. Scientific fields are now beginning to cross each other's lines. The field of optics, for instance, is coming more and more into contact with electronics, but their concepts and language are very different. Problem three is the inadequate information on technical presentation. While graphs, drawings, and equations are staples in discussions of technical subjects, there is a wide variation in how these are balanced out. Not enough is known about the relative difficulty in absorbing information presented in these different ways."
"Presentations are effective tools to convey ideas. A presentation is either good or bad. A good one leaves a message. A bad one can be effctive also, since audiences remember that it was bad long after the message is forgotten. Planned presentations should employ both hearing and sight senses. Controlled tests indicate that people remember ideas longer under these conditions. Presentations should contain these elements: purpose; background; data generation, assimilation, and analysis; graphics; rehearsal; and delivery."
"This article discusses the writing of technical papers from inception to final editing. It considers first the need for writing a paper and also the audience for which it is intended. It then describes the steps of writing the paper: the summary, the outline, the illustrations, the first draft, the reviews and editing, and the final draft of the paper. Examples of these steps are given so that the writer can understand them fully and can readily adapt them to his own writing project. The article stresses establishing the need for the paper and then its development of thought and text logically so that the writer can make his point with the greatest possible impact."
"A novel technical vocabulary-building technique for technical writing students as well as other engineering students is described. The technique is based on \"brain storming\" and can be utilized by teachers of engineering and science writing or technical writing as an adjunct to their regular course material. It is brief (15 minutes or less per session) and can be inserted at any convenient time during the instruction period. About 200 new science and engineering terms can be conveniently acquired per semester by the average student. Sample vocabulary sheets (which also serve as reference lists) are included in the appendix to this paper as guides for instructors. Blackboard and chalk are the only materials and equipment required. The technique is also believed to be instrumental in stimulating creative writing through beginning with a random set of technical words on a subject, then organizing the words into categorical ideas, which in turn can permit a variety of conceptual approaches as well as depth of writing on a subject."
"This article treats information retrieval (IR) in general, and discusses two types of activities: 1) what the IEEE is doing and 2) how an IEEE member might start his own small-scale IR system. The initial phase of the IEEE IR program consists of a series of trial runs in several Group Transactions of IR-type catalog cards. These cards contain not only the customary bibliographic information but also an \"indicative-informative\" abstract and index terms. A generalized IR system is described in terms of a catalog card file, an index file, and a document file. The proposed card format, when implemented, will help cut down the work involved in feeding information into the catalog card file. The index file can use any of several types of index cards, such as an edge-punched card, a machine punched card, a card with written lists of document accession numbers, or an optical coincidence card known as a peek-a-boo card. The peek-a-boo card seems to have desirable features of simplicity and ease of browsing."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The pulsed helium-neon gas laser has provided pulse power more than three orders of magnitude above the average power afforded by CW operation. Analyses of the power-limiting factors show that still greater increases may be expected. By increasing the size of the laser tube several times, by optimizing the gas ratio and pressure, by optimizing reflectivity and transmissivity of the reflecting mirrors, and by controlling the shape and application of the exciting voltage pulse, peak power outputs in the kilowatt range are theoretically possible. A power of 100 watts has been achieved in the laboratory at pulse rates up to 250 cps. Such a result brings the gas laser out of the low power category and into the intermediate power range. The results of range calculations show that 100 w pulse power will provide a radar range of approximately 10 km against a target having a diffuse reflectivity of 0.1, and a range of over 100 km with a cooperative target. Against a bright cloud background only the cooperative target can be used. The range will then be reduced to approximately 20 km. An automatic tracking radar system has been synthesized utilizing the pulsed gas laser as a transmitting component. A brief parametric analysis has beem made and some of the advantages of the optical radar over its microwave counterpart have been outlined."
"A method of obtaining high peak power pulses from a ruby laser oscillator by controlling the resonant cavity Q with a spinning reflector technique is described. Basic principles are discussed. A theory regarding the multiple pulse problem of slow Q switching is presented. Practical methods of eliminating critical alignment procedures and increasing effective switching speed are explained. Experimental data relating to the effect of the parameters of cavity output transmission, crystal temperature, pump energy, reflector separation and spinning speed upon laser power and energy are presented. Results of experiments at temperatures ranging from -20°F to 140°F are given. Application of the spinning reflector technique to optical ranging is discussed. Described is an experimental rangefinder designed and fabricated to show feasibility of the technique for military application."
"The general criteria for the operational performance of laser ranging systems are considered in quantitative terms with emphasis being placed on the optimization of systems which must meet specific operational requirements. The entire range-determining process is discussed on a statistical basis and the target detection capabilities of a system are defined in terms of the relative probabilities of recording real and false targets. Within this analysis appears a detailed discussion of all contributing noise sources, these being reduced to a fundamental noise source for two specific systems which transmit at different frequencies. A comparison is then made between the relative power requirements of the two systems performing the same task. In the case of some pulsed gas lasers, the pulse duration is somewhat long, thus necessitating a compromise between range resolution and maximum range capability. The relationship between these parameters is discussed in detail. In addition, a technique is proposed whereby the resolution is varied as a function of target return. This technique employs a multiple pulse transmitter and automatically optimizes its resolution and range capabilities."
"It is desired to establish a communication link between two separated transmit-receive terminals, each having narrow beamwidths and specified uncertainty as to relative angular locations. To achieve the communication link the narrow beams must point directly at each other. The purpose of this paper is to determine the search or acquisition time required by the two terminals to achieve the desired state of knowledge whereby the transmit-receive beams of both terminals are pointed in the required directions, signals are mutually recognized and the communication link is thereby established. The acquisition time is a random variable and can thus be described in terms of an expected value and standard deviation. Markov chain concepts are employed to derive equations for the expected acquisition time in terms of system parameters such as relative angular uncertainty, beamwidth, probability of detection of a signal in noise, false alarm probability, etc. Single as well as multiple receive beam systems are considered. Curves relating the expected acquisition time to probability of detection and pointing probability are presented."
"By extending the results of Kelly, Reed, and Root, formulas are derived for the variances of maximum likelihood estimates of azimuth, and azimuth and elevation, jointly, by dense, discrete and discrete-continuous apertures for the strong signal case. The accuracy of angle measurements depends upon 1) total signal energy captured by the aperture, 2) the mean-square aperture size, 3) carrier frequency, 4) the mean-square signal bandwidth. Mean-square quantities are the second moments about the centroids. The actual signal form and aperture form do not matter, except as they affect the mean-square quantities. When joint estimates of azimuth and elevation are made, the errors are generally coupled. Minimum variances are obtained when the errors are uncoupled. This condition is obtained, in the narrowband case, when the two-dimensional illumination function is factorable into the product of one-dimensional functions. The formulas for the dense and discrete apertures are identical in form, the various factors being discrete or continuous analogs of one another in which integrations are replaced by summations. The formulas for the discrete-continuous array differs in form by the presence of terms which reflect the anisotropy of the beam patterns."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of upcoming articles of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The methodology of planning systems to meet stated goals in an optimum manner while recognizing all pertinent constraints is being given increasing attention by systems engineers. In the electric utility industry the greatly increased complexity of the systems required to meet anticipated load growth, the advent of large-scale interconnection of systems, increasing investment costs and the pressure for continued economy of service have necessitated continuing efforts to achieve more comprehensive and exacting approaches to system planning. Significant progress in system planning has been achieved to date in the electric utility industry. Integrated digital computer programs have been devised which permit the modeling of the technical and economic performance of future system design alternatives and aid the system planner in obtaining an optimum total system beginning with the sources of fuel and ending with the final delivery of power to the customer. By the methods presented in this paper the total present worth cost of various alternative system designs may be readily obtained. Limited work has been undertaken concerning the direct optimum synthesis of a system plan. The major difficulty in direct synthesis arises from the complex interrelationships of the variables and the high dimensionality of the problem."
"A linear programming model can be used to plan new generation and transmission systems. The instance described is a model for the Pacific Coast region of the United States for the years 1965 through 1980. The method allows simultaneous optimization, at a high level of aggregation, of all decision variables relevant to this geographic space and time period. The results include marginal cost estimates and analysis of the sensitivity of the solution to various given data and parameters, as well as a description of the optimal system. The strengths and limitations of linear programming in this use are discussed."
"Many types of equipment have two costs: the cost of the work potential dissipated by the equipment in operation, and its initial capital cost. The correct design minimizes the total cost. A mathematical technique has recently been developed for obtaining algebraic expressions for the minimum cost, as well as for the optimum design parameters in terms of the physical parameters of the system and of various unit costs, such as electric power and fuel costs. The present paper illustrates this mathematical optimization technique through its application to the design of a counter-flow heat exchanger. Algebraic expressions are obtained for the following design parameters: flow velocities and surface area per unit rate of heat exchanged. This mathematical technique is equally applicable to design problems where properties other than cost are to be minimized, such as weight."
"The expected philosophy in the future trend for energy conversion on a large scale is outlined in this paper. Following a brief review of the basic concepts of irreversible thermodynamics a scheme is described which outlines a method of searching for new conversion processes. Some examples are then given to demonstrate the method."
"In much of modern control theory designs are based on the assumption that the state vector of the system to be controlled is available for measurement. In many practical situations only a few output quantities are available. Application of theories which assume that the state vector is known is severely limited in these cases. In this paper it is shown that the state vector of a linear system can be reconstructed from observations of the system inputs and outputs. It is shown that the observer, which reconstructs the state vector, is itself a linear system whose complexity decreases as the number of output quantities available increases. The observer may be incorporated in the control of a system which does not have its state vector available for measurement. The observer supplies the state vector, but at the expense of adding poles to the over-all system."
"Practical methods, suited to digital computers, are presented for the formulation, reduction, and combination of systems in state-space form. Formulation is illustrated in two ways. The coefficients of a linearized set of equations describing a simple superheater are entered directly in the matrices of the state-space equations. Transfer functions of a control system are decomposed into first-order differential equations and put in the same form. Reduction to standard state-space form is accomplished by matrix inversion and by signal-flow graph manipulation that is equivalent to inversion by partitioning. Composite systems are formed from subsystems that are in either reduced or unreduced form. The emphasis is upon the ease of handling large, complex problems afforded by the systematic format of the state-space representation. Key words are combination, composite system, control design, digital computer, formulation, linear, matrix, matrix inversion, reduced system, reduction, signal-flow graph, state-space, superheater, unreduced system."
"A formal system is introduced which is capable of representing a universal Turing machine. This enables the input, state-output representation of the computing systems that allows the study on a unified basis of the larger systems involving computer-like subsystems. It has been shown how some problems and concepts associated with the theory of Turing machines can be applied to engineering system and vice-versa. This has been made possible by using the proposed formal system."
"A unified view of the large amount of progress which has been made in the analysis of systems such as radar, communications, imaging systems, etc., is presented. The basic theory of complex parameter systems and the role of phase lock in such systems is given in Section II. Performance limitations due to phase errors, stochastic delays, and clipping are discussed in Sections III and IV. Section V gives some results of ifitering for the modulus of a complex signal, and Section VI treats some problems in scatter communications. The following are some of the solutions presented. Phase lock provides a factor-two improvement in signal-to-noise ratio in coherent receivers. If r(x) denotes random deviation from constructing a straight antenna and δ is the standard deviation of d2r/dx2, then there exists a Gaussian illumnation which provides a radius of gyration beamwidth of √λδ/2π. Hard limiting of radar or analog communication signals prior to processing in an optimum receiver results in an rms error in signal estimation of 32 per cent in the presence of Gaussian statistics. With Gaussian statistics, the processor which minimizes E(|Jf-h|2) where f is signal and h is system output (where additive noise is present) also minimizes E [(|f|2-|h|2)2] save for a correction of mean value which is required in the latter case. In the section on scatter communications, the relation between \"cloud size statistics\" and coherence bandwidth is presented along with the performance gain available through the use of space diversity in the receiving system."
"Flow graph analysis has proved a valuable approach to the study of probabilistic systems. This paper extends the analytic procedures to semi-Markov processes, Markov processes whose transition times can also be arbitrary random variables. First we present the basic theory of the semi-Markov process. We derive expressions for the interval transition probabilities, the probabilities that the system will be in each state after the passage of a time interval of length t, and find the limit of these probabilities when t is large. Then we develop the flow graph interpretation of these relations. We consider the special cases of counting transitions, transient processes, and first passage times. We investigate the effect on interval transition probabilities of starting the process in different ways, including choosing a time at random to begin observation of the process. We find that results are often most conveniently expressed by the matrix flow graph for the process."
"This paper contains a theoretical analysis of the data association problem of a common type of surveillance system. By a method of inverse probability, the optimal data processor is obtained which permits maximum likelihood estimates to be made of the true data-surveillance object association. The maximum likelihood estimator is given in a form that lends itself to sequential computations performed in real time as the data arrives. Examples of the use of this estimator make clear the precise mathematical meaning of such terms as tentative, confirmed, and established data tracks, and the concept of search areas. The analytical technique is of general use in a variety of surveillance situations. Computer implementations are possible."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of upcoming articles of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Observations of two radio stars, Cygnus A and Cassiopeia A, and of two satellites, Cosmos I and Transit 4A, have yielded data on lower and upper atmospheric irregularities. The frequencies studied have included 20 Mc, 40 Mc and 54 Mc for satellite transmissions, and 30 Mc to 3000 Mc for radio star signals. The antennas used have ranged from a dipole to a 150-foot parabola. The irregularities in refractive index in the lower atmosphere produce amplitude fluctuations up to several times average with a fading rate of 3 to 0.5 per minute while ionospheric amplitude fluctuations can increase several decibels, with rates from 1 to 60 per minute. Lower atmosphere scintillation rates increase as the elevation angle increases and generally disappear above 50 of elevation. During intense magnetic storms, the ionospheric scintillation rate is a function of wavelength in the UHF range. Ionospheric scintillations are functions of both magnetic conditions and of the subionospheric latitudes of the irregularities; they are observed at zenith at the geomagnetic latitude of the Sagamore Hill Radio Observatory (54°). Using spaced receivers, heights of single irregularities have ranged from about 100 to 600 km and representative sizes from about 0.1 to 4 km. Irregularities constitute the prime factor affecting the level, phase and angle of arrival of signals propagated through the auroral regions."
"The detection of the 2П3/2, J= 3/2 Λ-doublet lines of O16H1 at 1665.36 Mc and 1667.40 Mc has provided radio astronomy with a second spectral line for investigation and has already given rise to a number of significant results. In this paper the nature of Λ-doublet levels are reviewed in an attempt to clarify the origin of the OH lines. The results of the OH observations are presented and the distinction between absorption and emission experiments is discussed in terms of the importance for the OH lines. The frequencies of the astrophysically important OH transitions in various molecular states and isotopic species are given and their detection possibilities are briefly discussed. Detection of the 2П3/2, J= 3/2 transitions of O18H1 appears possible with current techniques. Radio molecular lines of SH, SiH, CH, CN, and NH are also discussed."
"A discussion is given of the properties of the strong nonthermal radio sources and particularly of those of extragalactic origin. These sources radiate by the synchrotron process. The properties of the galaxies associated with the sources are described. A review is then given of the various theoretical proposals which have been made to try to explain how the generation of very large fluxes of relativistic particles (with total energies ≥ 10660 ergs) in very short times (~106 years or less) has taken place. Finally, the requirements which must be fulfilled for a satisfactory theory of the origin of such sources are outlined."
"A brief historical summary is followed by a review of current observations of Jupiter's decametric radiation. Particular attention is given to the time structure and statistical properties of the emission, and several important deficiencies in our observational knowledge are pointed out."
"A radio telescope is used in radio astronomy to measure the intensity of the radiation received from various parts of the sky. Such a telescope must be able both to detect and to locate faint radio sources of small angular size, and also to measure the brightness distribution across extended radio sources or over large sky areas. Ideally the telescope should be capable of making such measurements over a wide frequency range and for different types of polarization of the incoming waves. The noise powers available in radio astronomy are very small, and some of the radio sources have angular sizes or angular structure of, perhaps, only one second of arc, so that a radio telescope needs both high gain and good resolving power. The paper describes various types of radio telescopes which have been built and tested, and outlines the astronomical needs which they fulfill. The parabolic reflector antenna is first described, with particular reference to the fully steerable 210-foot telescope at the Australian National Radio Astronomy Observatory and to the 300-foot transit telescope at the U. S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory. Of the telescopes which use fixed or partly fixed reflector surfaces, those at the University of Illinois, at the Nançay station of the Paris Observatory, and at the Arecibo Ionospheric Observatory in Puerto Rico are described in some detail. Instruments in which the resolution is improved without a corresponding increase of collecting area, such as the cross-type antennas, are briefly described."
"Planetary radar astronomy's greatest handicap is the extremely feeble power content of an echo. This echo is always masked by relatively strong background noise so that special signal processing is required. The basic task is the detection and measurement of the echo power. However, when the signal strength is greater than the requirements of simple detection, it is desirable to measure the power distribution in time or in frequency. When the signal is still stronger, it is possible to divide the power into the two dimensions of time delay and frequency shift simultaneously, and thus produce a radar \"map\" of the target. Some of the special techniques and devices which are required to make these measurements, as well as some of the results of applying these techniques to Venus, Mars, Mercury, and Jupiter, are described. There are several groups working in this field and the author has stressed the work at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory merely because of his familiarity with it."
"The role of radar backscatter observations in ionospheric studies is outlined. The theoretical developments are described that form the basis for ground-based measurements of electron density, electron temperature, ion temperature, and ionic composition at ionospheric heights. Observations of the first three parameters have been successful. Observation of the fourth parameter, ionic composition, is a challenging problem and is being attempted."
"The study of the sun by radar which was begun less than five years ago should become a valuable supplement to the study, by other methods, of the sun and interplanetary space. High powered transmitters and large antennas are required to detect a solar echo. Frequencies less than 50 Mc should be optimum, primarily because of increasing coronal absorption with increasing frequency. Routine observations were begun by the Lincoln Laboaratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in April, 1961, at a site near El Campo, Texas. Observations since that time have been made on about 200 days per year. The transmitter has an average power output of 500 kw and operates at a frequency of 38.2 Mc. The system includes two cross-polarized antennas consisting of large arrays of dipoles. These antennas have maximum gains of 33 and 36 db. The received solar echo is usually 20 to 30 db below the solar noise and signal integration is required to detect the echo. The average measured solar radar cross section is approximately equal to that of the projected area of the photosphere although there are large fluctuations about the mean. Some possible reasons for these variations in cross section are discussed. The Doppler spreading of the solar echoes varies between 20 and 70 kc and is apparently due to mass motions on the sun. These indicated mass motions are large enough to affect the coronal temperature measurements made by the emission-line broadening method."
"Principal antenna parameters which are useful in characterizing the electrical performance of radio-telescope antennas are defined and the relations between them are established. The application of these parameters to radio astronomical measurements is discussed."
"The role of radio and radar astronomy in space exploration is discussed and compared with present and future techniques that use electromagnetic waves of all lengths, gravity waves, atomic particles, etc. A brief description of the universe is then given with the aid of a series of scale drawings, and the possible ranges of the different techniques are considered. The place of space probes and manned space travel in space exploration is also mentioned. It is pointed out that radio astronomy is not only the most promising technique presently available for observing the most distant parts of our universe but it may be the only one."
"Thermal radio radiation has been observed from the moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. The most important result of the observations is the discovery that the temperature at the surface of Venus, beneath the clouds, is greater than 600° K. The thermal radio radiation from the moon comes from beneath the surface and gives information about the temperature distribution and variation which can be interpreted in terms of the physical characteristics of the subsurface material. This also should apply to the planets with thin atmospheres. The thermal radio radiation from Jupiter should give information about the temperature distribution in the extensive absorbing atmosphere, but the intensity of the thermal radiation is confused by the nonthermal radiation of the radiation belts and cannot be accurately specified until more observational data are available."
"Celestial radio sources have generally been divided into two categories: 1) thermal sources, and 2) nonthermal sources. The thermal sources are usually masses of ionized hydrogen and their radiation is due to the random interaction of the electrons and protons of the ionized gas. The major cause of ionization is the ultraviolet radiation of the hot stars. This paper describes the basic physical processes involved in the radiation, and the methods of obtaining information from radio observations about the interstellar medium and the hot stars."
"The beam efficiency of an antenna may be defined as the ratio of the power radiated within the main beam to the total power radiated. The beam efficiency is derived for ideal rectangular and circular apertures, as a function of the edge-to-center amplitude ratio. Random phase errors are assumed to exist across the aperture. Various types of feeds for parabolic reflectors are also considered in relation to the fraction of power which the feed directs into the paraboloid. A primary limitation on the beam efficiency of a paraboloid is shown to be produced by the surface roughness."
"A review is made of radio astronomy development starting with Jansky at 15-m wavelength and progressing to 30, 60, 144, 576, and 2100 m. Electromagnetic wave propagation through the ionosphere by the O, X, Z, and Y modes including various aberrations is discussed. Methods of overcoming atmospherics are outlined. Preliminary findings at hectometer waves and the cosmological implications are mentioned. The different outlook upon the structure of the universe appears to be a more enticing aspect of the study than details about the contents of the Milky Way. Equipment technology is entirely omitted. A comprehensive list of references to the literature is included, along with four figures."
"A general survey of the principles of radio astronomy receivers is presented. System noise temperature, the sensitivity of different receiver types, and the calibration of receivers are studied. A total-power receiver is analyzed as a basic radio telescope receiver and. the results are used to obtain the performance of other receiver types such as the Dicke receiver, Graham's receiver, correlation receiver, and phase-switching receiver."
"The characteristics of parametric amplifiers, including effective input noise temperature, bandwidth, stability, and gain compression are discussed. Two specific amplifiers, a liquid nitrogen cooled L-band unit for a radio astronomy observatory, and a three-channel unit for a satellite vernier auto track system, are described, and the characteristics of these amplifiers are presented."
"Two types of world models and their main properties are discussed briefly: the steady-state model and the simplest relativistic models. In some world models there is a horizon which principally limits any observation within a certain distance. The question investigated is what requirements must be met by observation (and theory) in order to distinguish between different world models. A comparison of various observational methods and their requirements shows that the most promising method seems to be observing angular source diameters and distances between double sources by lunar occultations of radio sources. (The resolution given by the edge of the Moon is better than 1 sec of arc.) This method requires a single, fully steerable dish of more than 300 ft diameter, and a fast calculating machine. Because of the traveling time of light, one must always look back into the past if one wishes to look out into space; one would see the most distant sources almost at age zero with a large antenna. Thus, a theory is needed to describe the formation and development of strong radio sources. Without it, no conclusions about world models could be derived from observations."
"The appearance of our Galaxy at radio wavelengths can be described as follows: The Milky Way stands out as a bright band of emission, at both long and short wavelengths. Above 50 cm, radio emission from the rest of the sky can also be observed. The brightness distribution is highly irregular. It can be interpreted as being due to the following sources: 1) Emission from ionized gas in the galactic plane, prominent at short wavelengths. 2) Synchrotron emission from the galactic disk and the Halo, prominent at long wavelengths. It is proposed that the sources of this nonthermal emission are clouds of relativistic particles and magnetic fields, possibly supernova remnants, distributed through the spiral arms and up to some distance from the galactic plane. The 21-cm line emitted by neutral hydrogen permits the astronomer to obtain a picture of the spiral structure and to study the motions of both the gas and the Galaxy as a whole. The galactic center and its surroundings poses a problem in itself, showing structure remarkable in both the continuum emission and in the neutral hydrogen distribution. Its structure suggests the possibility of an explosion of the galactic nucleus in the past."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of upcoming articles of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Experimental observations of reflection and transmission of a cw wave propagating in the quasi TE11 mode in a cylindrical wave guide filled with a time decaying plasma are presented. The discharge column occupies, with the exception of a thin layer of quartz, the entire cross-section of the wave guide. The transmitted wave displays a series of optima whose relative amplitudes increase with decreasing electron density. With regard to phase separation, frequency and pressure variation the extrema seem to fit a simple theoretical model, which, however, fails to explain the absorption mechanism, the latter being also associated with a reversed cross-modulation not explainable by the Ramsauer effect."
"It is well-known that a cylindrical plasma column in a transverse rf electric field is subject to a dipole resonance. The frequency at which this occurs can be used to determine the average electron density across the plasma section. This paper describes the experimental application of the technique to plasmas with and without a confining axial static magnetic field, and gives theoretical curves to assist in rapid reduction of the data. Higher order multipole resonances can also be excited. The feasibility of applying these to determination of the number density profile is discussed."
"The propagation of an electromagnetic wave through a fully ionized diffusing plasma slab is investigated. The slab is considered to be diffusing in an ambipolar fashion, with the electron-ion collision frequency proportional to the spatial and time varying ion density. The propagation characteristics of the wave are shown to be dependent on the relationship between np and nc, the densities where the signal frequency is equal to the plasma frequency and collision frequency respectively. This relationship is temperature dependent. The reflection and transmission coefficients of the plasma are calculated as a function of signal frequency, and their behavior as the slab diffuses is investigated."
"Electromagnetic waves in a plasma column subjected to generalized impedance boundary conditions are studied. A general dispersion equation is obtained which is solved numerically on a high speed digital computer, the boundary impedances being either read in on cards as fixed impedances or calculated from a subroutine written for a specific problem. The effects of resistive and reactive components in the boundary impedances are shown. True zeros of the determinantal equation are found to occur for real ß only when pure reactance is presented to the plasma surface."
"Phenomena occurring in a particular vortex-stabilized geometry are discussed. In arc heaters of this type, voltage increases linearly with flow and with size. The level of performance for various sizes is both predictable and fairly constant. Smoke techniques have elucidated re-entrant flow patterns associated with the vortex flow, and windows permit studying the effect of an auxiliary magnetic field on arc rotation. Measurements of effluent fluctuations are reported."
"The rail-type plasma-gun is a well suited laboratory set-up for the experimental determination of the physical properties of short lived plasmas. The ONERA plasma-gun is the most conventional rail type gun, with two cylindrical electrodes; an electrical discharge between two auxiliary electrodes generates the plasma whenever a puff of argon is injected into the plasma gun. Measurements on the set-up are devised to give the following data: - mass flow rate through the injection nozzle or amount of argon corresponding to each puff; - current and voltage during a discharge; - self induction of the rails; - shape and displacement of the plasma column (magnetic coil probe and photo-cell recordings). Though not necessarily an efficient space propulsion device, the parallel rail plasma-gun allows the development and improvement of many experimental techniques, which can be used for the study of more efficient electric thrustors."
"An electric propulsion device is described which utilizes surface contact ion generation followed by space-charge-neutralized, electrostatic ion acceleration in an annular, low-density, Hall current accelerator. Performance analyses and design criteria are presented to illustrate the potentialities of the device for use as an efficient, high-thrust-density engine in the intermediate specific impulse regime. Preliminary experimental data obtained with a laboratory model are presented."
"This paper is concerned with the physics and operating characteristics of cooled anodes In contact with an arc-heated laminar plasma flow in a constant area duct. Various modes of anode behavior are identified and described. Some Influences of gas type, flow rate, arc current, anode material and geometry are demonstrated. A theory is developed to explain the low-current mode of the anode characteristic. It is shown that the local current density on the anode surface is related approximately to the surface's local bias relative to its electrically floating voltage. Anode current distribution data is presented; the distribution is shown to be unstable above a transition bias volt,. age, with the current concentrating intensely on the edge of the anode toward the cathode. Neighboring points on the duct wall are shown to be electrically independent. This fact greatly simplifies an interpretation of anode phenomena. The information presented makes a fairly complete picture of the physical behavior of finite-length, cooled anodes in contact with fully-developed laminar plasma-arc flows."
"This paper presents an analysis of the flow and energy transport processes in an arc-heating device in which an electric arc and a gas flow pass concurrently through a cylindrical tube. The particular region of interest in the tube is the inlet length over which the hot gas is always separated from the tube wall by a layer of unheated gas. The analysis demonstrates the manner in which the flow parameters in the tube may be computed by the matching of the unheated flow and the heated flow at the thermal boundary for given end boundary conditions. Experimental data obtained with an arc heater are presented in support of the analytical model."
"The basis of a simple theoretical analysis by Stine and Watson of the behavior of a wall-constricted plasma generator is considered. Experimental results are presented for a plasma generator designed from gas transport properties and theory. In general the agreement between theory and measured performance of the plasma generator indicates that the underlying physical principles are reasonably well understood."
"Measurements of voltage gradient and static pressure distribution in the constrictor of a gas stabilized constricted arc discharge are reported. These and previously obtained data yielding the column diameter are used to compare the behavior of this discharge with laminar column theories. Significant disagreement are found, and it is concluded that the discharge represents an inlet flow region. A qualitative model is presented of the physical processes occuring in this inlet region. The implications for arc heater efficiency of this model and of the data are discussed."
"Measurements of the spectral continuum of arc heated nitrogen plasma have been made using high dispersion spectroscopic equipment. These measurements cover a wavelength range of 2700 Å to 44t,000 Å and a temperature range of 9500°K to 12,000°K. The measurements have been compared with a number of theoretical studies of both the spectral and total emissivity. An estimate of the contribution to the continuum of the negative nitrogen ion has been included, and a new value of the effective nuclear charge for Kramers free-free radiation has been measured."
"The propagation of short electromagnetic pulses in an ionized medium and the reflection of transient pulses from bounded ionized regions is discussed. Analytical expressions for transient oscillations in reflected and propagated electromagnetic fields excited by a unidirectional pulse are derived for certain simple cases. The transient oscillations show a periodicity which is directly related to the plasma frequency and are useful for nearly instantaneous plasma diagnostics. An experiment is described in which the reflection and transmission of unidirectional pulses of approximately 1 nanosecond duration is observed in the afterglow of a coaxial discharge tube. In addition to the dispersion of the quasi TEM mode in the coaxial test tube a transient oscillation with much lower periodicity is also observed and interpreted as arising from a surface-wave propagating near the interface between glass walls and the annular ionized region. This surface-wave propagates only at frequencies below the plasma frequency of the ionized region and its application for diagnostics of dense plasma is indicated."
"This paper reports an experimental study of microwave diagostic techniques as applied to electrodeless discharge plasmas. Here relatively dense plasmas (~1012. electrons/cm3) are created by inductive coupling from a radio frequency (40 mc) coil using only a one kilowatt generator. A microwave diagnostic system has been developed which permits X-band (8840 mc) waveguide transmission in the TM01 mode through this plasma without appreciably loading the RF excitation coil. Simple slotted line probing techniques have been developed which are capable of measuring the point by point plasma densities with a high degree of accuracy in relatively dense plasmas using only a single microwave frequency. The techniques described here are to be applied to a large 100 kilowatt plama generator now nearing completion."
"Total heat transfer measurements were made using standard calorimeter techniques in an electrically driven 6.5 inch diameter shock tube at stagnation point enthalpies corresponding to velocities of up to 47, 000 ft/sec in air at an altitude of 140,000 feet. The radiative component was separated from the total by subtracting the measured convective component from the total heat transfer rate measurement. The remaining radiative component is compared with the equilibrium radiative heat transfer theory of Kivel and Bailey and the nonequilibrium estimates of Teare, Geōōōrgiev, and Allen. The possible sources of error, the advantages and limitations of this technique and the discrepancy with theory is discussed in detail."
"The total energy radiation of an argon arcjet was measured by a simple collimated thermopile. Radiation from the luminous jet was found to vary as T7.2 when the peak (centerline) temperature at the arcjet exit plane was 12,600°K. Total radiated energy from the arcjet, including the downstream-directed component from the cathode face, was found to agree quite well with theoretical estimates given in the present paper. The use of a purified helium atmosphere and lithium fluoride optical components permitted achievement of transmissivity down to 1060 angstroms on all measurements."
"A uniformly moving charged particle, traversing a plasma in the direction of the lines of force of an ambient geomagnetic field, produces low intensity radiation at frequencies below the ion gyro frequency by the Cerenkov mechanism. Because of the anisotropy of the medium, the phase relation for radiation can be satisfied by particles moving slower than the Alfven velocity as well as by particles moving faster. The former (anonolous) effect will be much smaller than the latter in ultra-low frequency ionospheric applications, but can perhaps be made comparable in laboratory experiments."
"A method is described for continuously measuring plasma potential over a 4-kV range using conventional components and equipment. The time resolution of the measurement is presently 1 msec, but could be made 0.1 msec without serious difficulty. The lithium-ion-beam transmission technique is used. The ion-beam energy is varied from 0 to 4 kV by a saw-tooth generator at a frequency of 1 kc/sec. A Faraday cup collects the ions which have acquired sufficient energy to overcome the plasma potential. When the current from the Faraday cup reaches a threshold level, the oscilloscope trace of the saw-tooth wave form is intensity-modulated, producing the desired plasma potential versus time relation."
"This paper describes a method of simulating a thin plasma sheath, of the type encountered in some aero-space applications, by using a single plane of equally spaced wires. It is shown that the surface impedance of such a periodic structure can be made equal to that of a thin plasma sheath. In this treatment, the respective surface impedances are related through three dimensionless parameters. A simple technique for obtaining high losses is also discussed, whereby collision frequencies in the neighborhood of the operating frequency are realizable. Experimental data, including both the lossy and lossless cases, is compared with the theoretical model in the X-band region."
"Summary form only, as given. A set of seven simultaneous differential rate equations which describe both the temporal and spectral characteristics of a pulsed microwave discharge in pure helium is derived. The rate equations describe the plasma characteristics, as well as the light emission, both during and after the application of the microwave power pulse to the discharge tube which is situated in a travelling wave structure rather than a cavity. A computer is used to solve the rate equations and certain of the rate constants are varied so as to obtain the best agreement between the computer solutions and the experimentally observed light emission characteristics."
"Variation of charge density in the positive column of a dc discharge due to the presence of a moving striation is investigated. A microwave cavity operating in the TM010 mode is used to measure the effects of the striation on the resonant frequency of the cavity. The results of the microwave measurements are compared with the photomultiplier data and the probe characteristics. Although no quantitatively accurate data could be obtained from the microwave measurement, some interesting results which contradict qualitatively previous observations of the striation are presented."
"The integration of the energy equation for air flow through an arc column is conducted for the inlet vortex chamber of a constricted arc. The resulting relationships among temperature, flow rate, current, voltage gradient and arc geometry are compared with the measured quantities. The temperatures were obtained spectrographically while the other parameters were measured in more routine fashion. The correlation between theory and experiment is fair to good but requires further refinement."
"The ionization afterglow experiments which are described utilize a beam of high-energy electrons (20 to 30 Mev) to produce a uniform and known concentration of ionization in a gas sample. Measurements of the electron density and collision frequency are then performed by observing the interaction of the free electrons with a probing microwave field. Studies of nitrogen have indicated that the apparent rate of electron thermalization at slightly epithermal energies is consistent with elastic scattering alone. The collision frequency at thermal energies is in good agreement with that determined from drift experiments. Electron-ion recombination is anomalous because the apparent recombination coefficient is afunction of the initial ionization intensity. This observation may be ascribed to the influence of metastables."
"Langmuir double probes and microwave resonant cavities are used to determine the axial magnetic field effects on the electron temperature, plasma density, and a low frequency natural oscillation in a mercury arc at low pressure. It is found that the magnetic field causes the electron temperature to greatly increase and become dependent on the amount of discharge current. The plasma density develops pronounced axial variations in the presence of the magnetic field. The natural oscillation frequency is found to be independent of the magnetic field or discharge current."
"The theory of wave propagation in plasma media where temperature and collision effects are important is formulated by combining the wave equation and Boltzmann's equation for average electron velocity. Usually it is assumed that the electron collision frequency is independent of velocity, but most gases are characterized by a velocity-dependent collision cross section and the electron collision frequency is velocity dependent. It has been shown that when the velocity dependence of the collision frequency is neglected, electron density predictions are in considerable error. A wave theory which accounts for the velocity-dependent electron collision frequency has been worked out and applied to the measurement of electron density, temperature, and collision frequency in a rocket exhaust plasma."
"Electrical conductivity data were obtained for germanium films of different thicknesses on glass substrates under exposure to a nuclear reactor environment comprising epithermal neutrons, thermal neutrons, and gamma rays. With an exposure time of 48 hours, a maximum temperature of 120°F, and a cumulative total epithermal neutron flux of 4 × 1012 n/cm2, the thinnest film showed an erratic increase of conductivity, and the thickest film a marked falling off of conductivity. It is judged that these results include a dependence of the electrical conductivity of a film upon the nature of the substrate and the substrate bond."
"The electrical nature of defects introduced in n-and p-type silicon by 10 to 40 Mev proton bombardment has been investigated by Hall effect and compared to defects resulting from electron damage. Evidence of three types of electrically active defects is presented. The defects are (a) a net acceptor at EC-0.17 ev, (b) a net acceptor at EC-0.4 ev, and (c) a net donor at Ev+0.29 ev. These defects appear to be identical to those previously reported for high energy electron damaged silicon. The damage introduction rates are estimated and found to be considerably larger than values reported for production of such defects by energetic electrons."
"Speed limits of decimal counting schemes based on binary-to-decimal conversion are considered. A simple \"1-2-4-8\" decimal logic is described, which is inherently as fast as the basic bistable. A decade for counting in 100-200 Mc/sec range, based on this logic and the tunnel diode-transistor bistable, is presented."
"The solution time of analogue multipliers using field-effect transistors is investigated. This time is ultimately limited by the charging time of the field-effect transistor junction. In typical devices suitable for analogue multiplication the charging time is found to be about 10-20 nsec for a multiplication error of less than one percent. A four quadrant pulse amplitude multiplier circuit is described, whose solution time is equal to the field-effect transistor charging time."
"A semiconductor pulse-height discriminator and driver amplifier was developed which will operate reliably for long periods of time aboard unattended space craft. Adequate threshold stability under variable temperature and supply voltage conditions is provided by a new tunneldiode circuit. Active parallel circuit redundancy is employed to enhance reliability. The resulting circuit tolerates opens or shorts in any of the semiconductors with little performance degradation."
"A semiconductor nuclear particle detector combining the best features of the lithium ion drift technique, the surface barrier method, and incorporating a guard ring structure is described. Detectors having sensitive depths up to 6mm with essentially no entrance window have been fabricated by this process and experimental data illustrating some of the properties and applications of these devices are presented."
"An automatic gamma scanning apparatus to determine U-235 content in fuel compacts is described. Two automatic scanners, controlled by a logic unit, drive each compact past a NaI(Tl) scintillation detector. Pulse-height selection permits counting only the emitted 184 KEV gamma-rays. After each scan, a scaler containing the total count is gated off and a readout cycle initiated. Comparison logic analyzes the count in terms of 4 values set into the system by selector switches. The interrogation circuits then decide the percentage of fuel loading relative to a standard element and indicate this to the operator. Simultaneously, the scaler count is printed on paper tape. Possible errors are considered and these are correlated with test results."
"For applications involving the routine laboratory measurement of gamma radiation, an instrument is described which is simple to operate, versatile, compact, and reliable. It consists of a pulse amplifier with charge-sensitive input and delay-line shaping, a differential discriminator capable of covering the range from 2 KeV to 4 MeV, a calibration pulser, and a power supply. All controls are calibrated directly in terms of gamma energy. Construction is modular for ease of maintenance, and all circuits use solid-state components."
"A space-saving, standard, transistorized 10-Mc decade scaler of modular construction has been developed to replace assorted earlier types of scalers. For high reliability, silicon planar transistors are used throughout, except for readout drivers. Two complete scalers are contained in a standard, rack mounting frame of 3-1/2-inch front panel height. A power supply module on the rear panel powers both scalers. Each scaler comprises nine modules. One module contains a tunnel diode pulse height discriminator with a threshold variable from 0.1 to 2 volts, and temperature coefficient less than 1 mv/°C. Another module contains a diode gate for gating the discriminator output, and the reset circuitry for the scaler modules. A third module contains a 10-Mc decade counting unit (DCU). Six identical 1-Mc DCU's complete the scaler. Ten-digit front panel readout of the DCU's is provided by neon lights in column configuration. External DCU readout is provided by four-line binary-coded decimal signals in 1-2-4-8 code."
"Ignitrons switching high-current pulses are troubled by arc transfer to the wall. An ignitron was made with the anode closer to the cathode (1 cm) than to the wall (3 cm). It was tested successfully as a capacitor-bank crowbar (clamp) tube at 12 kv with two different current wave shapes. The first was 3 kiloamperes (ka) decaying with a 230-msec time constant (690 coulombs). The second was 55 ka decaying with a 12-msec time constant (660 coulombs). There was no indication of arc transfer damage on the wall. Also, as expected, the arc drop voltage decreased much faster (10 μsec vs 60 μsec) than a conventionally-spaced 5-inch ignitron and reached a 20% lower value."
"A summary is presented of the various types of electronic instrumentation used at the Los Alamos Critical Assembly Laboratory. Also discussed is automatic data handling equipment as well as the nature of command and readout signals used on remote control critical assembly machines. Equipment is described for performing prompt neutron lifetime measurements by the Rossi-α method, pile oscillator technique, and the power fluctuation experiment."
"To improve the rejection of neutron-induced background in a multicrystal gamma-ray spectrometer, nanosecond circuitry was designed that exploits the difference in flight times of neutrons and gamma rays produced in a target bombarded with a pulsed beam of monoenergetic protons. This circuitry allows the spectrometer to be gated on for a time (nominally 7 nsec) equal to the pulse width of the proton beam. Only those gamma rays produced during the proton pulse are accepted for energy analysis. These gamma rays arrive at the detector in a time short compared with the flight time of any other secondary radiation produced during that same beam pulse. The system. is used as a pair spectrometer for energies from 1.5 to 11 Mev, and as a total absorption spectrometer for energies below 2.5 Mev. The energies of the gamma rays produced by 160 Mev protons from the Harvard University synchrocyclotron in targets of Be, C, H2O, Al, Co, and Bi were measured. Spectral data were obtained and the results include determination of essentially all the gamma rays reviously described plus several more at higher energies. The neutron rejection ratio of the spectrometer varied with targets and ranged from 59% for C to 77% for H2O."
"Techniques for making measurements of gas properties in supersonic plasmas generated by continuous thermal arc heaters and crossed field accelerators are described: Specifically, measurements of static pressure, total pressure, flow velocity, local mass flow, and local total enthalpy. The use of these measurements together with the relationships between the gasdynamic parameters such as temperature, pressure, density, specific heat, sound speed, Mach number, and degree of dissociation and ionization are discussed. When the gas is out of equilibrium, as it is in crossed field accelerator plumes produced to date and in many thermal arc jets, the number of independent measurements required to determine the gas properties unambiguously is three plus one for each non-equilibrium energy reservoir. Previously described diagnostic techniques for plasma jets, have relied upon known reservoir conditions and upon the use of an effective specific heat ratio. However these assumptions cannot be made for crossed field accelerator plumes because reservoir conditions are not known and because large fractions of the gas energy may be invested in non-equilibrium energy reservoirs. For this reason the analytical treatment of the measurements is important. Results obtained in argon plumes using velocity, static pressure, total pressure, local mass flow, and local total enthalpy probes are presented. Gas properties determined from these measurements are given, and the degree of reliability of the measurements is ascertained by cross-checks wherever possible."
"J. Hahn, co-author with V. Guigargossian of \"A Linear Amplifier Suitable for High Counting Rates,\" which appeared on pages 44-51 of the July, 1963, issue of these TRANSACTIONS, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. The complete schematic diagram of Fig. 7 on page 48 was a poor reproduction. Therefore it is reprinted here."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A simplified form of the reactor kinetics equations is developed which is suitable for application of optimization techniques. The mechanization of the simplified reactor kinetics equations uses instruments already developed. Optimization techniques are applied to a desired start-up program of constant period followed by operation at constant power. The optimum controller which results is relatively simple, requiring two amplifiers with time varying gains. Numerical results are presented."
"The system accepts up to 21 simultaneous pulses in parallel and forms a train of pulses for the display on a single channel scope. Representative pulses have the following characteristics: ~15 nsec wide at the base line, ~5 nsec rise time, ~1 ma peak current. Each channel contains a linear gate, controlled by the same event pulse. Upon arrival of the event pulse, the 21 channels open simultaneously for ~25 nsec and allow transmission of the signal pulses into a system of 20 cable delay sections, connected in series. Each joint is a feedpoint for one signal pulse as passed by its corresponding linear gate. The 21 roughly simultaneously occurring pulses can now be displayed as a train of pulses on a single channel scope. Circuit design and performance data are given in the report."
"The dependence of the output of a tunnel diode amplitude discriminator on the excess over threshold is analyzed; the input pulse is assumed to be from a scintillation counter. An approximate formula for the maximum delay introduced is given. The results of numerical integration are summarized in a diagram, allowing the calculation of the delay introduced for various values of excess over threshold and of circuit time constants."
"The paper describes a novel transistorized trip circuit which was designed according to A.C. fail safe principles, the circuit trips being on high and low levels, thus indicating off normal input conditions. Both levels are detected by a single regenerative comparator. The output decays within 3 msec after a trip condition, independent of input signal slope or level. The circuit posseses an inherent static trip state lock."
"A versatile, solid-state Fast-Slow Coincidence system is described which is used with large NaI(Tl) scintillators and XP1040 photomultipliers. A multichannel time display is provided which consists of a time-to-amplitude converter of the \"start-stop\" type and a standard 100-channel kicksorter. The calibration of the time analyzer can be varied from 1 nsec to 0.1 nsec per channel. In addition to showing the time spread, the display indicates the coincidence resolving time (2To) which is variable from 1 to 100 nsec by means of front panel helipots. The electronic time jitter of the system, as measured with a fast pulser is less than 0.2 nsec. A resolving time of 8 nsec gives 95% coincidence efficiency for coincidences between the annihilation radiation photo-22 peaks from Na22"
"Radiation effects have become a serious problem for designers of space vehicle electronic equipment. By simulating the environment and irradiating various components and circuits more and more data have become available for engineering application. However, it has not been possible to simulate the pulsed radiation environment correctly, because it has not been possible to obtain the high radiation intensities occurring in the actual environment. The following represents experimental data obtained at radiation intensities >1012 RADS/sec. This was an intensity 4 to 5 orders of magnitude greater than what had been achieved in previous experimental data."
"Electron density, collision frequency and electron extinction rates have been computed from microwave absorption measurements on the exhaust plumes of solid propellant rocket motors burning CsNO3:Al and KNO3:Al The plasma was generated by burning the fuel at a chamber pressure above 100 psi, and expanding the gases through an orifice to an ambient pressure of 1 Torr. The plume consists of both gases and solid particles which modify the aerodynamic flow. High speed movies together with grid wires in the flow field were used to define the plume. Microwaves operating at frequencies up to 70 gc were used for measuring the plasma properties."
"The article describes a new set of fail-safe logic blocks particularly suited to safety systems. The input information is normally +5V; in case of alarm, the input drops to 0V. Fundamental blocks (AND, OR, NOT, etc.) are pulse-modulated, so as to achieve 0V output voltage in case of failure. More complex logic function can be synthesized and redundancy can be employed in order to avoid erroneous action."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The scintillation process in impurity-activated alkali halide crystals is considered by analogy to that in binary solid organic solutions. A general relation is proposed for the differential scintillation efficiency dL/dE as the product of the efficiencies of the primary and secondary scintillation processes. The primary efficiency is influenced by electron-hole recombination and ionization quenching and is a function of the specific energy loss dE/dr. The secondary efficiency is influenced by host-activator energy transfer and concentration quenching and is a function of the activator concentration c . Experimental data in support of the model are cited. An extension of the model is proposed to account for the temperature dependence of the scintillation efficiencies and decay times of pure and impurity-activated alkali halides, and this is compared with experimental data."
"Scintillation crystals of CaI2 and CaI2(Eu) have been produced which iypically show pulse heights of 180% relative to NaI(Tl). The emission spectra for both pure and activated materials are well matched to a S-ll phototube response. Pure CaI2 has a decay time of 0.55, μsec; CaI2(Eu) has a 0.79, μsec decay time. Though this material is difficult to grow and to package, performance results thus far obtained are encouraging."
"The emission and transmission of both pure and Tl activated NaI crystals have been studied as functions of wavelength and plastic deformation in the sample. The results show an increase in emission at 0.42 micron for the NaI(Tl) phosphor, and a probable decrease for the pure NaI specimen. In pure NaI three emission bands, located at 0.33, 0.375 and 0.42 micron, were observed. The 0.42 micron band in both NaI(Tl) and NaI is associated at least in part with chemical contamination of the surface. Some reduction in absorption in both the activated and pure crystals was observed upon increasing the dislocation density."
"An investigation was made of the relative response of NaI(Tl) to electrons over an energy range of 6 keV to 1 MeV. The light output at 6 keV is quite sensitive to the nature of the exposed surface. The results are given for the two best cleaved NaI(Tl) crystals and compared to the electron response deduced from photon data. There is good agreement above 20 keV, where little sensitivity to changes in surface condition was observed. Similar measurements were made for anthracene and Pilot B. The relative light output per unit energy is shown for all three scintillators. Their merit as low energy electron detectors was found to be significantly affected by the amount of backscattering and the intensity and duration of long lived excitation states arising from ionizing events."
"The fluorescence from a CsI(0.08% Tl) scintillator excited by charged particles which come to a stop within the scintillator has been measured for alpha particles, deuterons, and protons. In the region 0.1 to 0.6 microseconds after its initial rise, the fluorescent decay can be accurately described by a simple exponential. The characteristic time for this exponential decay has been measured at several energies up to 28.7 MeV for a particles and 7.2 MeV for protons. We have found a linear relationship between this decay time and the logarithm of the particle energy, τ = k ln E + τo, where k and τo are constants which are characteristic of the type of stopping particle."
"An apparatus has been assembled which is capable of detecting and reproducing the fluorescence pulse contours from scintillation materials. In this report we are emphasizing two areas of our work: The recent modifications in our apparatus and the presentation of preliminary data. A comparison is made between the fluorescence decay time of ordinary and deuterated compounds. Also preliminary results indicate that in a series of similar type molecules each with a high quantum yield, the longer the molecule the shorter the fluorescence decay time."
"An evaluation of light emitted from commercial plastic scintillators, when bombarded with radioactive particles, was done using photomultiplier tubes with S-11 and S-13 responses. Fourteen plastic scintillators, 1-in. long, were compared and eight different kinds were used to study light output as a function of length. It was found that light output does not fall exponentially with increasing length but rather as the sum of two exponents. A proposed method of analysis leads to two different absorption coefficients. Two possible explanations are given for this phenomenon."
"In nuclear detection, it is often advantageous to detect the nuclear events occurring at widely separated points and to route this information to a central location. This problem was encountered in the design of a nuclear gaging system for the reaction control tanks of the Apollo vehicle. An evaluation of system requirements showed that a design using a multiplier phototube and an array of scintillator rods offered optimum efficiency, weight and accuracy. This approach demands that the scintillator rods act both as gamma detectors and as light pipes to conduct the light to the phototube. An investigation of the light conducting properties of various scintillator materials as a function of rod length, diameter, shape and surface conditions is herein reported. The light piping properties of several materials and geometries have been explored both experimentally1,2 and theoretically3,4. Scintillation materials have been used as light pipes in several instances,5,6 although usually where environmental conditions make more direct means infeasible (for instance, where intense magnetic fields would effect the phototube)."
"Experimental study of the response of stilbene to protons (0,8 to 1,8 MeV) indicates a non-linearity in the intensity of the fast components vs energy and a linear relationship for the slow component. It was found for stilbene and anthracene a decreasing intensity of the slow component with increasing particle mass (electrons, protons, alphas). The temperature dependence of both components has been measured between -130°C and 20°C. A relative increase of the same magnitude, about 20 % has been observed for the fast and the slow emission at low temperature. This paper presents the experimental devices used in these experiments and a discussion of the results in relation to models proposed for the slow emission process (mainly triplet-triplet interaction)."
"Typical operating characteristics of ITT Industrial Laboratories' special purpose multiplier phototubes are described, with particular emphasis on the ability of these tubes to count single photoelectrons with minimum interference from dark noise. This ability, of particular significance in the detection of low energy quanta, including single photons, follows from the Poisson-like output pulse height distribution observed in the tubes in which a well-defined most probable pulse amplitude appears, compared to a more complex but lower amplitude dark noise pulse height spectrum. Other features of these tubes, such as adjustable cathode size and shape, electrical deflection for automatic gain calibration, alignment and image tracking, and reduction of dark noise with cooling, are also described."
"A quantitative measurement of the cesium disposition within a multiplier phototube was accomplished by the use of cesium-137 as a tracer. The processing and measurement techniques are described, and the significance of the findings are discussed in relation to tube performance and improvement. An attempt was made to examine the role of cesium in the fatigue behavior of the AgMgOCs dynode surface. The effort met with interpretation difficulties when it was found that an apparent excess of cesium masks the postulated surface changes. Experimental work with the Du Mont 6292 showed that a low fatigue rate is associated with a high degree of dynode oxidation, but no correlation with cesium uptake was readily evident."
"Data on transit time and rise time for numerous types of photomultipliers are presented. Two new photomultipliers designed to provide superior time resolution are discussed. The properties of existing types designed for energy spectroscopy are reviewed. New types designed to reduce dark noise due to radioactive contaminants, dark current, and leakage are described and performance data presented. Some of the advantages of the K2CsSb photocathode are shown. The development of photomultipliers for severe environments is reviewed. Two new families of tubes for this service are described."
"This paper describes several electron devices for the detection of radiation. Discussed are a photomultiplier for UV and X-ray spectrum analysis which uses a switchable segmented photocathode; a large area scintillation counter tube which uses a large size multiplier structure giving it high coupling factor and high current capability; and a small, two terminal electron multiplier structure which uses an inclined strip of semiconductor material in an electric field. Illustrations and some performance data are given."
"A new group of extreme solar-blind multiplier phototubes with cleaved lithium fluoride windows consisting of: end-on tubes with 28 mm active diameter cesium iodide (542G-08) and potassium bromide (542J-08) photocathode; 10 mm active diameter cesium iodide (541G-08) and copper iodide (541H-08) photocathodes; and a side-window tube with a cesium iodide reflective photocathode (641G-08), are described. The spectral responses have characteristic long wavelength cut-offs which serve as an efficient means of rejecting the scattered long-wavelength radiation in dispersive systems. The tubes have anode dark currents at room temperature equivalent to approximately one photoelectron per second. The count rate in the dark of cathode-originating electrons is 10-20 counts per minute. The pulse height distribution from a 541G-08 illuminated with low-level ultraviolet shows an exponential form down to a small fraction (1/25) of the average single electron pulse height. The highly ruggedized tubes are designed for the rigors of space applications."
"The P. 829 thin film light amplifier has been greatly improved and been shown to be capable of providing very high photon gains exceeding 106, and low dark currents down to 3 scintillations/sq. cm./sec. Under continuous operating conditions, a resolution exceeding 60 line pairs/mm. has been reported, and excellent pulsing characteristics have been achieved at 20 nano seconds exposure time. A tube incorporating a flat photocathode of 2\" diameter and a first stage demagnification of 2:1 has been made. Useful information has been gained by using the P. 829 type tube to study stellar spectra, Cerenkov rings, profiles of beams of charged particles, plasma physics, and bioluminescence. Some examples of photographic results obtained in these investigations are given."
"The WX 30006 and WX 5009, whose characteristic are summarized in Table I, are just two representatives of a whole family of high-speed tubes which can be constructed using the building blocks at hand. Many trade offs ar possible allowing one to design a tube tailore to a specific application. All tubes incorporating planar dynode multipliers have several features in common, some of which are enumerate below: 1. Uniform and close spacing of dynodes in a plane parallel geometry, combined with high voltage per stage, allowing a substantial reduction in transit time fluctuations as wel as total transit time. 2. Absence of positive ion feedback (owing to the compartmentalized structure of the tube) resulting in virtual eliminatio of after pulses. 3. Ability to operate in the presenc of relatively intense magnetic fields because of the close spacings, high voltages, and guardring effect of the kovar mounting flanges. All TSE tubes have operated effectively in axial fields in excess of 1200 gauss, and there is no reason to suspect that the gain would suffe appreciably even in axial fields of 20 Kilogauss. There are, however, two possible limitation n the usefulness of these tubes which frankly require further investigation: 1. At present the life of these devices is only imperfectly understood. 2. The high voltage required for operating these tubes will in many cases pose problems which require some imagination for their solution."
"This paper reviews recent work at E.M.I. on photomultiplier tubes. Dark current measurements by various techniques are presented, including data on tubes with high quantum efficiency and minimum thermionic emission suitable for low energy scintillation counting. Mention is made of a new fast tube, a small tube, and modified ion detectors. Two four-stage image intensifiers are described."
"A new sealed-off detector for accurate photon counting in the ultraviolet (1100-1800 A%o) is described. The resultant pulse height distributions exhibit a clear separation between signal and multiplier dark current. At operating voltages of 20-25 KV across the photon scintillator the peak of the signal distribution occurs at pulse heights greater than 30 times that of the average single electron. Because of the broad valley between signal and dark current the counting rate is relatively insensitive to substantial changes in bias level. The integral background above the bias level due to both the photon scintillator and the coupled photomultiplier dark current is of the order of 1 count/ sec or less. The pulse height resolution (FWHM) at 25 KV for low-light level ultraviolet radiation (single events) is approximately 45%."
"An image intensifier system is described in which a two-stage tube, Mullard VX8529 is coupled by a lens to an English Electric P829, a transmission-secondary emission type of intensifier with a gain of >105. The system has a large area input cathode, 15 cms in diameter, and is intended to give a high efficiency of detection for photoelectrons originating from that cathode. It is intended that the system will be used to detect images at extremely low light levels, such as the ring image produced from a Cherenkov radiator by a lens or mirror. The experiments described concentrate on the performance of the system and its components. In particular measurements are made of the efficiency of detecting primary photoelectrons and of the accuracy in determining the position of an image. It is shown that for illumination in central regions of the photocathode~ 2.5 spots of light are photographed on the output phosphor screen for each photoelectron. Approximately 1.8 are in a region surrounding the the true image position and for a line image have a distribution with a standard deviation (referred to the input photocathode) of 2.7 mm. Of these ~0.5 are found to be bright spots in the correct image position. The remaining spots are widely distributed. Measurements have also been made of the detection efficiency for single photoelectrons with the high gain P829 alone. For the conditions of the present experiment it is found that only 30% produce a detectable signal in the correct image position."
"Recently the author advanced the hypothesis that photomultiplier fatigue is caused by the time-dependent accumulation of electric charge at the dynode surface. The corresponding equation contains two exponential terms for an observed double effect characteristic of phototube fatigue and of the Malter effect. A tentative interpretation of this double effect maintains that there are two succesive jumps as the bound electrons of the MgO-Cs dynode escape from the F2 or F2+ centers to the vacuum. Experimental measurements favor the calculations based on the proposed model, although there is no evidence for each particular level. To forestall fatigue effects preventive measures have proven to be insufficient. However, tube gain stabilization can be achieved by a new method in minutes rather than the hours needed previously. Two further methods for correction of distorted energy spectra were developed. Several simple mechanical and electrical devices have been developed for the automatic reduction of fatigue effects by compensation, to as little as 1% of the original values. This holds even in the case of strong sources. Also, methods of suppression of the fatigue phenomenon are discussed. The time dependent field emission equations play an essential role in this study."
"It is shown that the probability distribution, p(i), of the release of i slow secondary electrons after the incidence of a primary particle of any sort (such as electrons, photons, ions etc.) can be determined by the use of a multistage electron multiplier (EM). The method is based on the idea of using the EM merely as a tool to amplify to an easily measurable level the effect produced by the process to be investigated. First, the single electron response of the EM, the pulse height distribution, ФФФ(x), in the output, is experimentally determined. Next, the pulse height distribution, F(x), is taken when the secondary electrons of the process to be measured enter the input. In the process of calculation of p(i) from ФФФ(x) and F(x) the moments of the distributions are used. This has the advantage that the successive calculation of the first few moments of p(i) gives information (average, variance, skewness etc.) which in many cases is of primary interest. Extension of the calculation to higher moments allows the determination of p(i) via the combinatorial moments. Experimental data taken for an EM with silver-magnesium dynodes show that the secondary emission curve for 230 ev primaries is somewhat broader than a Poisson distribution."
"The statistical distribution of the secondary emission plays a very important part when using the windowless multiplier. We have done a detailed study of the problem, leading to some new results, in particular concerning; -the distribution of secondary electrons from impinging α-particles -the detection efficiency of the windowless multiplier -the shape of the single electron spe ctrum. Comparison has been made between experimental results and the predictions of the statistical theory."
"This paper provides a collection of data relevant to the use of various types of semiconductor detector in nuclear spectroscopy and gives examples of the use of detectors in specific experimental applications. Basic data on absorption of various kinds of radiation in germanium and silicon are given, and these are related to the characteristics of different types of semiconductor detectors. A brief outline of the optimization procedure for the detector-amplifier system to obtain good energy resolution follows. Included in a brief review of applications of detectors are examples in the fields of a-particle spectrometry, high-energy particle reactions, and low-temperature nuclear alignment studies."
"Germanium and silicon p-i-n diodes with active volumes up to 2 cm3 have been fabricated using the lithium-ion drift technique. p-type germanium doped with either gallium or zinc (5-10 ohm-cm) and boron-doped silicon (1100 ohm-cm) were the base materials. Diodes were operated at 77°K in conjunction with a low noise amplifier system (270 RMS electron-holes). They have been used as gamma-ray pair spectrometers, germanium diodes giving a resolution of 7 keV (FWHM) at 2.75 MeV gamma-ray energy increasing to 10 keV at 7.64 MeV; resolution from a silicon device was slightly inferior. A germanium diode has been used as the central detector in a triple-crystal pair spectrometer incorporating two NaI scintillators. This arrangement improved the ratio of the height of the pair peak to the background below the peak from 7:1 to 150:1 for 2.75 MeV gamma-rays from a Na24 source."
"Deterioration of charged-particle resolution-width, for p-i-n detectors prepared by lithiumion-drift techniques, was observed during bombardment with protons, and alpha particles. During exposure the resolution-width increased without loss of rectification when damage was confined to the intrinsic region. Significant deterioration in response was observed for 108 particles/cm2. Rapid loss of rectification was observed during exposure to neutrons at energies mostly in the range of from 1 to 10 MeV and for a flux of 109 neutrons/cm2/sec. The damage effects were studied with several detectors having an electron resolution-width of 15 to 20 keV at room temperature, and a window thickness of approximately 1 mg/cm2. Limitations on recovery, by further drift treatment, were observed for an integrated charged-particle flux in excess of 1012 particles/cm2. The response of these detectors to electrons before and after damage, and to heavy charged particles during production of damage and after recovery, is described."
"Diffused n-on-p silicon particle detectors were irradiated with 1-Mev electrons, and with 31-Mev and 8.2-Mev protons. The detector capacitance was observed to increase with electron irradiation and to decrease with proton irradiation. A physical interpretation is given in terms of defect energy levels known to be introduced in silicon by irradiation. Defect ionization states are taken to be characteristic of the space-charge region, rather than of bulk silicon. The relation to other studies of damage in semiconductor particle detectors is pointed out, considering differences in the types of detector and irradiation used. The significance of these results is discussed for detector applications where the damage threshold is exceeded."
"A major effect of radiation damage of semiconductor junction detectors is the decrease of charge carrier lifetime. The thick depletion regions and low fields usually employed in p-i-n junctions makes them particularly sensitive to radiation damage. A study of the changes of electron trapping lengths in silicon p-i-n junctions as a function of radiation damage by Co60 gamma rays is presented. Significant changes of collection efficiency and collection time were observed at doses (~105R) which are considered negligible for damage in p-n junctions. The variations of reverse current and noise were small for these low doses. A method of fabrication and encapsulation of p-i-n junction radiation detectors is described which utilizes ion drifting from a localized source of lithium and a gold-silicon alloy seal."
"Leakage current in lithium drifted detectors is a very sensitive function of surface condition. In this paper some attempts at gaining a better understanding of the relevant surface phenomena are reported. N-type conduction layers were found which extended from the lithium-rich side across the depleted material to an inversion layer on the p-type material, at the other end of the detector. Regions of high electric field exist in the vicinity of the i-p boundary. By measuring surface potentials and solving Laplace's equation in the depletion region, one can compute electric field configurations as well as net charge concentration at the surface. Collection probability for pairs generated in the surface layer was measured and found to be independent of bias above VB /m=simeq/ 1 volt. A model for the generation of surface currents is proposed. Measurements indicate that most of the surface current is created in the region of high field. Finally, the number of occupied surface states is computed and found to be, at low bias, of the order of 1/104 times the number of atoms at the Si surface."
"A number of investigators have observed multiplication phenomenon in the response of silicon surface barriers to fission fragments. In many cases, this multiplication is anomalous in the sense that it occurs at electric field intensities well below that required for avalanche multiplication. One group has suggested that this phenomenon is related to a \"threshold depth\". 1 However, other results from investigations of the response of surface barriers to fission fragments2 and heavy ions3 for a wide range of silicon resistivities and bias voltages have exhibited no systematic evidence to support the concept of a \"threshold depth\". In the work reported here, we demonstrate that multiplications at anomalously low field strengths can be significantly reduced by surface treatment after fabrication and can be reduced or eliminated by the proper surface treatment and control of the thickness of the front electrode. A possible multiplication mechanism based on the concept of tunneling injection through the oxide layer, which was first suggested by Gibson and Miller4, is discussed in terms of these experimental results. Fabrication techniques which minimize the tendency to multiply, together with other detailed design criteria for optimizing the performance of fission fragment and heavy ion spectrometers, are also presented."
"Preliminary investigation of the response to beta and alpha particles of silicon radiation detectors cooled to temperatures below 77/s=deg/ K has led to the discovery of an anomaly in the pulse height distribution which is a function of detector temperature. The pulse height and resolution of a P-I-N lithium-drift silicon detector shows a rapid decrease in the temperature interval of 40 - 35/s=deg/ K for electric fields up to the maximum of 4200 volts/cm used in this experiment. Lithium-drift detectors of the P+-I-N surface barrier configuration exhibit similar characteristics. Surface barrier detectors of resistivities in the range of 3000 ohm-cm exposed to beta particles exhibit a decrease in pulse height and resolution in the temperature interval of 30 - 15/s=deg/ K. With increasing bias voltage the pulse height tends towards the high temperature values but with degraded resolution. A detailed investigation of the response of a surface barrier detector to alpha particles shows an anomaly of the, same characteristics as the beta particle anomaly. In addition, the pulse height decreases at reduced bias voltages below approximately 14/s=deg/ K. A plausible explanation of the primary anomaly based on the analysis of Walter is discussed."
"As a part of research on surface barrier detectors the formation of rectifying contacts has been studied for gold on n-type silicon. It has been observed that rectifying properties appear only if the ambient gas gives negative surface charges upon adsorption. Experiments have been performed with several gases (air, oxygen...). During the formation process, the variation of reverse current is strongly modified if a d. c. field is applied. This effect shows the importance of oxygen ions in the process leading to inversion layer."
"In many applications it is necessary to use sensors which are capable of operating in regions of either high ambient temperature or radiation flux or both. Such conditions may occur in reactor cores, casings of nuclear engines, etc. For applications of this type a nuclear particle detector has been developed fron silicon carbide (SiC) which can detect charged particles, and, with the addition of a fissionable coating,, thermal neutrons at temperatures in excess of 700°C. In a limited test of radiation resistance, selected diodes have been irradiated up to 1014 protons/cm2, with alternating irradiation and annealing. At this dosage, (roughly equivalent to 1016nvt) some permanent degradation of the properties occurred. It has been shown that the crystal perfection and the purity of the original crystal are of extreme importance in preparing the detector. The junction structure must also be tailored so that efficient counting is obtained."
"An apparatus previously developed and used for determination of scintillator response characteristics has been used for similar studies of the transient response of semiconductor nuclear detectors. With this apparatus a detector pulse as short as 1.2 nsec has been observed. Pulses have been recorded for diffused junction and lithium-drift diodes, in silicon. The effects of depletion-depth, base resistance and electric filed intensity in the depletion region are revealed in the shape of the pulse. The experimental method and the application of the apparatus to measurement of detector properties is discussed."
"It is known that making detectors with great depletion depth is related to the availability of high resistivity Si, generally obtained by compensation. We have experimented a new compensating technique, based on the production of P-31, in situ, by nuclear transmutation of Si by thermal neutrons. After annealing, very high resistivity Si (200 000 Ω. cm at 300° K) has been obtained by this method. NIP structures with great depletion depth obtained by nuclear compensation are described, as an example of the possibilities of this new technique."
"Boron ions of 500 Kev and 100 Kev energy (0.7 microns and 0.14 microns range respectively) from a Van de Graaff accelerator have been used to fabricate 1/2 - inch diameter junction counters by bombarding the surface of etched 5000 Ω-cm and 10, 000 Ω-cm n-type silicon slices. After being passed through an analyzing magnet to obtain a spectroscopically pure beam, the ions were scanned by electrostatic deflection plates to obtain uniform irradiation of the samples. Boron concentration could be varied as a function of depth in the crystal by programmed rotation of the slices about an axis perpendicular to the beam. After post-irradiation annealing at 300°C to remove radiation damage, evaporated aluminum contacts were applied to the front and electroless nickel to the back. Initial investigation resulted in diodes with leakage as low as 10 μa at -100 volts and reverse breakdown voltage greater than -400 volts. The thinnest dead layer was 0.2 microns. Pulse height spectra taken with Po210 alpha particles (5.3 Mev), in general contained large numbers of counts at low pulse heights, presumably due to carrier trapping in radiation-induced crystal defects. The best counter had a resolution of 50 Kev with insignificant low energy noise."
"Drifting a thick lithium-drifted counter (silicon and germanium) is a time-consuming operation that frequently results in a poor device, owing to inadequate knowledge of progress of the drifting operation. The drifting apparatus described here automatically controls the temperature of the detector that is being drifted to maintain the leakage current at a preselected value. While drifting proceeds, a continuous measurement is made of the distance of the lithium-drifted region from the opposite face of the wafer. When the drifted region reaches 30 mil or less from the back of the wafer a meter indicates the thickness of the undrifted region and, when this thickness falls below a preselected value, the temperature of the detector is automatically reduced to room temperature. The need for constant supervision of the drifting operation is thereby eliminated, and reliance on theoretical drift-rate calculations to predict the drift-through time is avoided. The technique has been applied to the manufacture of lithium -drifted silicon detectors with excellent results. The application of the technique to lithiumdrifted germanium γ detectors is also discussed briefly."
"Ion-pairing occurs in silicon between lithium and acceptor impurities and causes a reduction in the effective diffusivity and driftmobility of lithium. This effect has been studied experimentally with different acceptor impurities. It appears that the suitable choice of an acceptor may, under certain conditions, result in at least an order of magnitude reduction. This is of interest in comnection with lithium-drifted gamma detectors where a constant active volume must be maintained over long periods."
"This paper describes the development and testing of the silicon p-n junction nuclear particle detectors which have been ued in the radiation experiments of the TELSTAR® communication satellite, and the Relay and Explorer XV satellites. The sensitive element of the detector is a diffused mesa diode of 10,000 to 20,000 ohm-cm p-type silicon. It is encapsulated in a transistor-type can with a thin (0.3 mil) Kovar window. In spite of the encapsulation, surface reliability was a major development problem. An extensive reliability testing program revealed several types of surface instability. Nevertheless, a high degree of reliability was achieved in most of the detectors, including those which were used on satellites."
"A vidicon camera tube furnishes an ideal means for directly viewing spark-chamber events. By digitizing spark locations initially, one can perform the subsequent circuit logic by digital-circuit techniques. Information stored on magnetic tape can be presented in a format suitable for immediate analysis by a computer. A recent system for scanning two views of 12 spark-chamber gaps is described along with plans for future developments."
"To meet the needs of the new Linac facility at the National Bureau of Standards, an SDS 920 digital computer has been obtained for concurrent on-line processing of data from several independent experiments. The system surrounding the computer contains several novel devices for allowing convenient real time operator control on computer functions and to provide privacy of programs by means of priority interrupt lines controlling the sequence of operation. A family of building blocks is being developed for the input of information. Surprisingly, the requirements of all nuclear physics experiments projected for the facility can be met with only six different blocks; an Analog Voltage Analog to Digital Converter, a Digital Register Unit, a Spectrum Analog to Digital Converter, a scaler, and a Group Enable Unit. These devices all feed information into the computer via a Multiplex Register Unit. The man machine interface is made flexible by the use of two decoding units, one for outgoing signals and one for sense switch type information to be used in computer control. The conventional computer output devices are supplemented in this system by direct analog, digital, graphic and scope output of data."
"A hybrid approach has been adopted in the use of an on-line computer in setting up and analyzing nuclear physics experiments. In addition to the usually cited advantage of online flexibility and the ability to do off-line calculations, the general purpose computer can simulate data by presenting the results of offline calculations to the experimenter in a format identical to that used for data display. As compared with off-line calculations at a computer center with subsequent hand or machine plotting, the use of the built-in display hardware provides a more convenient comparison of theory with experiment, as well as greater ease and speed. The advantages of on-line data transformation are preserved without accompanying limitations on the rate of data taking. The data from the experiment consisted of energy correlations in two-particle coincidence experiments. The loci of points in energy-energy space fulfilling energy and momentum conservation were calculated, displayed, and photographed before each experimental run. Interpretation of the experimental data was assisted by modulation of the loci (i. e., of the number of counts per channel) according to the predictions of various models."
"In spite of the apparent complexity of the equations, it is shown that unscrambling scintillation spectra by a least-square-fit procedure is well suited to on-line calculations, requiring certainly no more than the very simplest of electronic computers. Unfortunately the sensitivity of the method to energy calibration errors limits its application to cases where the energies of the strong components in the spectrum are known beforehand."
"The least-squares method for analyzing multichannel gamma-ray spectra is one of great power and versatility, but its full potential is difficult to realize due to instrumental instabilities. For sources having low or moderate activities and for which the counting times range from a few minutes to several hours, the most important instabilities are long term drifts in zero-energy channel-intercept and gain. A computer routine based on the use of a special reference source is described, which can detect changes in zero-intercept of as little as 0.05 channels (for a 512 channel analyzer), and in gain of as little as 0.1%. By prior transformation of the data to compensate for these effects, and by the use of appropriate weighting factors in the least-squares analysis, the goodness of fit is dramatically improved. Often, the goodness of fit indicator \"chi-squared over degrees of freedom\" is reduced from a value in excess of three, to a value which does not differ significantly from unity. The weighting procedure described takes into account the statistical errors in both the complex spectrum which is to be analyzed, and in the reference spectra which are its components. These computer methods have been applied to the analysis of gamma-spectra from biological materials containing low activities of the natural series of radionuclides, and of atomic fallout products."
"The characteristics of the junction gate field-effect transistor and the basic relations among its parameters are described. Some figures of merit are derived in terms of its physical parameters and the limitations considered. Applications in nuclear instrumentation are discussed. Some advantages of field-effect transistors are in high input impedance, low noise at very low and medium frequencies, and a wide operating temperature range (-200°C to +100°C). In addition, the field-effect transistor represents a new circuit element - voltage (charge) controlled conductance with fast response. Field-effect transistors are particularly suitable for low noise amplifiers at low and medium frequencies, for high input impedance amplifiers (as for integrators), for charge-sensitive amplifiers, and for analogue multipliers. They can also be applied as controllable feedback elements."
"The excellent energy resolution of semiconductor radiation detectors has generated a need for charge-sensitive transistorized preamplifiers which have low values of noise line-widths. The application of field-effect transistors in charge-sensitive configurations was investigated, and a low-noise preamplifier was consequently developed. The preamplifier has a junction field-effect transistor in the input stage. The field-effect transistor is connected in cascode with the second stage bipolar transistor which has its collector load bootstrapped by a White follower. The bias stabilization is adequate for normal operation of the preamplifier over an FET temperature range from room temperature to liquid nitrogen temperature. Measured values of the preamplifier noise line-width as a function of pulse-shaping time constants, total input capacitance, and temperature are presented. Formulas are included for the theoretical determination of the noise line-width, Application of the formulas requires knowledge of the parameters of the preamplifier and pulse-shaping circuitry and the noise characteristics of the FET. The FET noise characteristics are shown as experimentally determined graphs of narrow-band equivalent noise resistance versus frequency, temperature, and bias point. Preamplifier noise line-widths less than 1.6 kev fwhm for silicon detectors (189 rms electronic charges) and slopes less than 0.06 kev/pf (7.1 rms electronic charges per pf) were obtained when the FET was cooled to the optimum temperature which was approximately 125°K."
"The pulse-height resolution of semiconductor nuclear-radiation detectors for particle energies below 200 kev is primarily limited by detector and amplifier noise. Amplifier noise may be large compared to that contributed by cooled, deep-depletionlayer diodes, and minimum noise is achieved by optimizing amplifier design for specific diode parameters. Vacuum-tube performance is realistically evaluated by measuring equivalent noise resistances of both plate-current shot noise and grid-current noise as a function of plate current and by measuring the tube input capacitance under actual operating conditions. Nomographs were developed to solve the equations relating noise performance to all diode and amplifier parameters except flicker noise, which is negligible for low transconductance tubes in this application. Graphical noise calculation facilitates optimum amplifier design. These nomographs may also be used to calculate noise from field-effect transistors. By use of these nomographs, a vacuum-tube amplifier was designed which has a noise performance of 175 electronic charges rms (1.5 kev fwhm Si) for zero external capacitance and 225 electronic charges rms (2 kev Si) for 10 pf external capacitance."
"Protons, deuterons, tritons, helium-3, and a particles produced in nuclear reactions have previously been identified by use of ΔE and E counters to determine dE/dx and E. Multiplying these together produces an output that is dependent on the type of particle. This technique is based on the theoretical relationship between dE/dx, E, and the mass and charge of the particle. Unfortunately there is an obvious re striction on the technique, since dE/dx changes as the particle passes through the ΔE counter. For the E(dE/dx) product to have any real meaning, the ΔE counter must be thin and absorb only a small part of the total energy. This limits the use of this technique in a given experiment to small energy ranges and to selected types of particle. The new identifier also uses a ΔE (thickness T) and E counter, but employs the empirical relationship, Range = a E1.73, where a depends on the type of particle. Using this relationship, one can show T/a = (E +ΔE)1.73 - E1.73. The identifier employs logarithmic elements to calculate this quantity and to produce an output that has a fixed value for each type of particle. The thickness of the ΔE counter is not limited to a very small value, and the identifier can cope with mixtures of all five types of particle, each covering a fairly wide energy range."
"A time-to-pulse-height converter has been developed for use in delayed-coincidence as well as pulsed-beam experiments. It embodies advantages of both start-stop and overlap converters with a single-valued output, A constant current flows into a capacitor only when a fast bistable element is in the \"on\" condition. In the pulsed-beam mode of operation, the \"start\" pulse from the detector turns the bistable element on and the \"stop\" pulse derived from the rf chopping signal turns it off. In the delayed-coincidence mode, the \"start\" pulse turns the bistable element on only if a \"ready\" pulse from a second detector is present, and it is turned off by the termination of the \"ready\" pulse, whose duration is determined by the length of a coaxial line shorted at one end. A means of gating the timing pulses by a fast integral gate is provided to reduce the duty cycle."
"Several aspects of interest in a new delayed coincidence apparatus are described. A tunnel diode time to pulse height converter has been built having an inherently single-valued response, rather than the usual double-valued one. The circuit built has an inherent time resolution (full width at half maximum) of 40 psec. The method used to obtain an accurate time calibration and detect small non-linearities in the system response is discussed. A pile-up detector, consisting of a univibrator, an integrator, and a biased diode discriminator is also discussed. Using Naton 136 plastic scintillators, RCA 7850 photomultipliers, zero-crossing triggers and pulse height compensation, Co60 resolution curves having a f.w.h.m. of 250 psec and covering more than four decades are obtained."
"A time-of-flight technique has been used to discriminate between particles of differing masses which are emitted from nuclear reactions. The particles are detected with a silicon junction counter. A two-parameter pulse-height analyzer is used to record both the energy and the flight time of each particle detected. The Argonne tandem Van de Graaff provides a chopped and bunched incident beam. Pulses from the silicon detector are fed into both a fast (200-Mc/sec band width) amplifier and into a conventional charge-sensitive preamplifier with a slower response. The fast side of the circuit feeds into a time-to-pulse-height converter giving a pulse which is a measure of flight time. An energy pulse is provided by the slower circuitry. The experimental data show a time resolution of 2 nsec and an energy resolution of 50 keV for particles with energies between 400 keV and 10 MeV."
"An alpha scintillation counter has been developed at this laboratory that exhibits unusually good characteristics for routine counting of low activity samples. The detector is a phoswich consisting of a .0008-inch thick CsI crystal mounted on .020-inch thick Pilot B discriminator. Optical coupling to the RCA 7746 photomultiplier is through a Lucite light pipe. The sensitive area of the detector is 2 inches in diameter, permitting use of a large sample pan. Counting efficiency, relative to that of a 2 π windowless proportional counter, is about 86 per cent for a thin plutonium-239 source, and about 65 per cent for an infinitely thick alpha source (uranium-235 dispersed in lucite). Typical background for an uncontaminated detector ranges from 1/4 to 1/3 count per hour. The detector face can be decontaminated using tissue and. ethyl alcohol with no apparent deleterious effects. The electronic circuitry analyzes each pulse to determine rise time, peak current and integrated current. Since the ratio of peak to integrated current is a characteristic of the scintillator, and is quite different for pulses from the two materials utilized, it is possible to identify pulses occurring only in the CsI, where all of the alpha particles are stopped. The rise time circuit verifies absence of a simultaneous Pilot B pulse and aids in rejection of certain types of noise."
"A gain stabilization system for use with a scintillation counter is described. The system uses a Po210 α source sandwiched between two 0.020\" thick discs of plastic phosphor as a reference light source, which is mounted between the NaI(Tl) crystal and the photomultiplier. This produces a stable Gaussian reference peak in the pulse height distribution, equivalent to 150 keV γ rays. A simple pulse shape discrimination circuit at the photomultiplier anode gates the circuitry such that it only responds to the reference pulses, thus making the system independent of any changes in the γ ray flux."
"A recycling time mark generator has been developed in which the only active element is a shunt connected tunnel diode. The diode is mounted at the junction of a 50/g=W/ stripline T. Two legs of the T are joined with a length of coaxial cable; the third leg proceeds 2.5 cms to a five port mis-match. The mis-match provides five input-output ports, and its distance from the diode determines the pulse width. Pulse width is about 0.8 ns and recycling periods as short as 3 ns and as long as 160 ns have been used. With a selected diode, up to two hundred pulses can be simultaneously recirculated in a 160 ns RG-8 transmission line indefinitely. Short term instability of circulation period as measured by beating the radiated signal with a quartz crystal is less than .05 ps. Bias coefficient of circulation period is 8 ps per mv at 90 mv with a General Electric TD-103 diode, and the tuning range which can be obtained by varying bias is 150 ps. The temperature coefficient of circulation period is 1.5 ps per °C. These measurements were made with a circulation period of 100 ns."
"The instrument described in this paper was built with the purpose of providing a display of the profile of secondary beams from high energy accelerators. It is capable of handling 105 particles per cm2 per machine pulse, assuming a 20 msec spill. The profile is measured by an array of 32 semiconductor detectors, 4 nm apart and arranged in the form of a cross. The detectors count the individual impinging particles. The total numbers of counts on each detector are fed continuously to a multichannel scaler, which in turn delivers an analogue live display and a digital printout. Details of the electronics and methods of fabrication of the detectors, as well as their problems, are discussed."
"A variety of instruments have been employed aboard earth-orbiting polar satellites for measurements of the aurora phenomenon. Fixed-threshold total-energy detectors which utilize aluminum layers evaporated onto plastic scintillators for electron threshold determination in the 2-31 keV range and a photomultiplier operated in a constant current mode for viewing the scintillation light are described. A variable-energy detector which utilizes a programmed variable-energy threshold and post acceleration to detect electrons in the 80 eV to 1.6 keV energy range is also presented. The satellite data handling system for obtaining high spatial resolution is described."
"Advent of the small semiconductor detector makes easier complex multiparametric experiments which may include a great number of detectors to provide precise information on location and energy of particles. Such complex systems pose special requirements for reliable, flexible and high performance electronics. A set of modular circuits has been designed for use at the Saclay cyclotron which may be assembled easily for either simple or complex experiments. The following modular and sub-modular circuits are described: (1) charge-sensitive preamplifier module, (2) highly stable gain, low noise, 15 nsec minimum rise time charge-sensitive preamplifier submodule, (3) preamplifier-associated discriminator module, (4) 4-input, low noise, stable, low level linear mixer, (5) low level discriminator to be driven directly from the above preamplifiers, (6) precision, semi-fast high level discriminator, (7) 3-input, highly stable gain, gated linear amplifier with precision, continuously adjustable gain, (8) 4-input, high level linear mixer and biased post amplifier, (9) automatic testing system. The modules are described and the application of the modular system is illustrated in connection with nuclear spectroscopy experiments employing /g=a//g=a/'-scattering."
"Summary form only given, as follows. J. Farber, co-author with A. Cantor, of \"Magneto-Gas Dynamic Analogue of Cerenkov Radiation, I and II,\" which appeared on pages 202-221 of the January, 1964, issue of these Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. The asterisk attached to the title of the first paper on page 202 had no corresponding reference as follows: \"This work has been supported by the Aerospace Research Group, Air Force Cambridge Laboratory, Bedford, Mass.\""
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Cambridge Electron Accelerator is now in full-scale operation for research at energies up to 6 Bev, five times higher than earlier electron accelerators. The machine, a synchrotron, uses a ring of 48 alternating gradient magnets in a circle 236 feet in diameter. Electrons are accelerated by RF fields produced in a set of sixteen resonant cavities spaced around the orbit. The frequency used is 476 Mc/s, the 360th harmonic of the orbital frequency. Injection of 30-Mev electrons is accomplished by using a linear accelerator operating at 2855 Mc/s. The main machine accepts and-accelerates to maximum energy beam currents of up to 1.2 x 1012 electrons/sec. The quality of the beam is fully as good as that from a linear accelerator. The CEA laboratory operates five days a week on a three-shift basis and has a staff of 160 people."
"A brief description is presented of high-intensity accelerators being considered at a number of laboratories for operation in the energy range of from 400 to 1000 Mev. Various types are included, such as the sector-focusing cyclotron, the negative-ion cyclotron, the linear accelerator, and the separated-orbit cyclotron. It is clear that at present designs exist whereby the intensity of a beam of protons can be increased by a factor of at least a thousand over that currently available. When these machines become available, research by physicists and bio-medical workers will undoubtedly be enhanced significantly."
"For performing many high-energy physics experiments, it is necessary to have high-energy particle beams of very high intensity. The intensity of particle beams in circular proton accelerators in the multi-GeV energy range depends, first, on the number of protons accelerated per pulse and, second, on the number of pulses per second. The number of protons which can be accelerated per pulse is limited by the space charge effects, and the number of pulses per second is limited by the design or type of the accelerator. These intensity limitations and methods of pushing back these limits are discussed. It is now feasible both technologically and economically to construct accelerators in the tens of GeV energy range which will accelerate more than 1014 protons per second."
"The further development of high energy physics through the next decade will require new accelerators capable of energies of an order of magnitude greater than presently available. A brief review is given of the current status of plans for the \"super-energy\" accelerators. Basic parameters are presented for machines in the 200-1000 BeV energy range and the current study at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory of a 200 BeV accelerator is described in some detail, as an example of the general class."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper considers the optimum way to divide the available energy between the channel measurement and information transfer functions. Specifically considered is a binary, symmetric, phase-modulation system operating over a channel which imparts a random phase modulation to the signal and adds Gaussian noise. We specify an efficient demodulation scheme and optimize it for all possible energy divisions at the transmitter. The energy division is then varied to achieve the minimum probability of error. For the range of signal and channel parameters considered, it is shown that the probability of error is minimized by devoting all available energy to transmitting information and operating on the information sequence to measure the channel. At high E/No ratios there may be cases in which the probability of error is minimized by dividing the energy between pilot tone and modulation. We were unable to find a case that satisfied the restrictions of our model in which this was true. The exact quantitative results depend on the statistics of the channel variations. Given any set of statistics, the approach developed will enable one to find the optimum power division for that particular case. Even more important are the conclusions which one can draw about the general case from our specific results. First, we see that from the theoretical standpoint one should always use the modulation waveform as part of the synchronization system. In many operational systems this is not done."
"Detection of a binary transmission by both optimum and suboptimum nonlinear and linear multireceivers is considered by comparing their asymptotic performance characteristics. The multichannel model is presumed to be of the Rician type. Particularly, we consider Turin's nonlinear specular-coherent multi-receiver and the nonlinear noncoherent Pierce-Stein multireceiver. These two termination error rate characteristics are graphically compared for low and high output signal-to-noise ratios. The performance characteristics of two other coherent linear multireceivers, one optimum and one easier implemented suboptimum, are derived and compared with the above-mentioned nonlinear multireceivers. The numerical results indicate system design trends and provide information on the degradation or improvement afforded by employing nonlinear detection systems as compared with linear detection systems. In particular, the optimum nonlinear coherent multireceiver is difficult to implement. It is shown that, for multichannels which are largely specular in nature, a more easily implemented linear coherent unit behaves optimally for all practical purposes. For channels which are largely scatter in nature it is shown that the linearized suboptimum system performance is highly inferior to the corresponding optimum coherent unit. In these situations, the noncoherent \"square-law combining\" system would be more reliable than the suboptimum coherent unit. In fact, for large scatter components we find that the noncoherent unit performs almost identically to the nonlinear coherent unit. This is due to the signal suppression effects known to occur in all nonlinear detectors throughout the field of statistical detection theory."
"The distortion of pulse amplitude modulated carriers by quadratically phase dispersive media is discussed, and it is shown that the emerging waveform consists of quadrature carriers, one of which is modulated by the original signal plus certain derivatives of that signal, and the other by different signal derivatives. The coherent demodulation and detection of the former by a filter matched to the undistorted signal is considered for the cases of sin t/t and Gaussian pulses, and it is shown that the output SNR decreases rapidly as the signal pulse bandwidth is increased above a certain threshold. The results are applied to the case of transionospheric microwave pulse transmission; as a typical example, video pulse bandwidths of at least 200 Mc can be handled at 4 kMc, with the bandwidth increasing as the three-halves power of the carrier frequency."
"This paper provides an analysis of a continuous, coded ranging scheme. By the use of a Boolean function, several \"component\" sequences are encoded into a transmitted signal. The receiver correlates the delayed return signal with different Boolean combinations of delayed replicas of the components to determine separately the time delay of each component sequence. From these delays, the total delay is computed. By proper choice of encoding logic, number and type of components, and the decoding logics and procedure, the range can be found in a relatively short time. Optimal parameters of this ranging device are derived."
"The relative coverages provided by an Azimuth-Elevation (Az-El) mount antenna and an equitorial mount antenna are computed and sketched in a plane tangent to the earth's surface at the antenna site. Coverage diagrams are determined for polar orbiting satellites as a function of altitude and with the allowable antenna movements about the polar and declination axis as parameters. The extent of the field of view blocked by imposing a masking angle is also considered and qualitative estimates of the relative dynamic coverages are presented. Advantages offered by each particular type of antenna are dependent upon the orbit and mission of the vehicle being tracked."
"This paper presents the derivation of exact expressions for the autocorrelation function and power spectrum of PCM/FM or FSK when the frequency modulating waveform is a random sequence of binary pulses of length T. The problem treated is that of true frequency modulation of an oscillator, a process which, except for a few special cases, generates waveforms and spectra different from those produced by sequentially switching between the outputs of two continuously running oscillators. The final expression for the power spectrum is simple and written in closed form. The power spectrum of PCM/FM is dependent on the bit rate fB, usually defined as the reciprocal of T, and the deviation ratio D, defined as the difference between the two possible values of the instantaneous frequency divided by the bit rate. For small values of D(D<.5) the spectrum of PCM/FM has a shape resembling a high-Q resonance curve with a 3-db bandwidth given by ½π fBD2. As D increases, fB being fixed, the resonance curve becomes a poorer approximation, and with D in the vicinity of 0.7 the spectral density is nearly flat across a frequency band equal to the bit rate and drops abruptly on either side of this frequency band. It is interesting to note that a value of D near 0.7 has been found to yield minimum probability of error for given received power and receiver noise temperature. As D increases from 0.7 to 1."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"It is shown that normal delta modulation can be used for the transmission of dc signals. A circuit is described in which a delta modulator is combined with a counter for analog-to-digital conversion of a dc signal. Several factors contributing to the accuracy are developed. One of these factors which has not been dealt with previously is the size of the steps in the reconstructed signal due to the finite integrator time constant. Two examples of delta modulators are described; one of them a high precision system, the other a simple design of moderate precision."
"A signal dependent threshold condition is often observed in feedback FM detectors. It is shown in this paper that this is due to the shape of the discriminator characteristic, and that in general a great deal of care is needed in discriminator design in order to reduce this effect."
"The optimum phase-locked loop demodulator is obtained for a carrier, phase modulated by a stationary Gaussian modulating process whose spectrum is proportional to 1/1 + (f/B)2n where n is any positive integer. Results are obtained also when the carrier is frequency modulated by the process for the limiting cases n = 1 and as n approaches infinity. It is shown that for phase modulation the output SNR as a function of the channel SNR in the bandwidth B varies from linear to exponential behavior as n increases from 1 to ∞. For the limiting cases the performance of frequency modulation is slightly inferior to that for phase modulation."
"Manual patching of large quantities of circuits requires considerable time, and is difficult to verify and awkward to change. The system described herein is an automatic patchboard capable of making 480 (or less) connections rapidly. Connections are made between two-wire inlets and outlets in any combination, and are controlled from a preprogrammed punched tape or from manual operation of a keyset on a control console. By departing from standard straight forward techniques in switching and control, a reliable nonblocking automatic patchboard became economically feasible."
"Conventional methods of measuring wide-band data error in continuous telemetry systems use shaped random noise to simulate the signal. This article describes the advantages of using discrete pseudo-random signals for this application. Results for a typical frequency-division telemetry system are presented."
"The Space Surveillance System developed at the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D. C., for the detection of earth satellites forms a fence across the southern part of the United States. Four receiving sites are alternated with three transmitting sites which illuminate satellites with radio energy as they traverse the fence. The angle of arrival of the reflected energy is measured at each receiving station by a compound radio interferometer. These signals yield a multiplicity of channels which are normally recorded on paper, read and resolved by using slide rules and/or mathematical tables. Operationally the resolution is done by a computer. With the increasing satellite population the number of fence crossings has increased considerably. Automation in the detection process is needed to facilitate identification and sorting of satellites from each other if a large backlog of data is to be avoided. The purpose of this report is to describe an electronic system which automatically combines several noisy ambiguous radio interferometer phase channels into one unambiguous quiet channel. This technique results in that given a multi-baseline radio interferometer system, normally having high angular resolution capability accompanied with the usual interferometer ambiguity problem associated with deciphering the multiple phase signal outputs it can be instrumented directly into a single unambiguous signal output which has an accuracy and resolution proportional to the longest baseline in the interferometer and whose noise content is inversely proportional to this baseline."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper discusses the use of delay-lock radar techniques for deep-space tracking and communications tasks. To illustrate these techniques, a Mars or Venus space probe of the Voyager type is used as a typical mission. The Voyager is an unmanned vehicle in the 6000-lb class which is planned for scientific and exploratory purposes from the years 1967 to 1975. A brief introduction to the results of delay-lock radar development to date is given, followed by a description of the digital delay-lock discriminator. A discussion is then given on the problems inherent in the modulation and demodulation which is required to make full use of the delay-lock capability. An integrated delay-lock two-way tracking-communications system suitable for the assumed mission is then described and the performance to be expected is calculated. This anticipated performance indicates considerable improvement over present capabilities."
"The causes of short-term oscillator instability are discussed. The effects of the instability of the received signal on the phase-locked loop performance are analyzed in terms of resultant mean-squared loop phase error. The results of the analysis permit the calculation of the effects of oscillator instability in the transmitter on the loop bandwidth and power requirement. They also furnish a systematic approach to specifying the oscillator stability requirements."
"On the basis of the derived far field of a turnstile antenna rotating about an arbitrary axis, the signal observed at the terminals of a pair of mutually orthogonal receiving dipoles is evaluated. The phase and amplitude of the signals received by a single dipole at two mutually orthogonal orientations and a circularly polarized antenna are determined as special cases. The results indicate that phase discontinuities which might possibly degrade the performance of a phase sensitive receiver may occur if the turnstile rotates about one of its dipoles, assuming a linearly polarized receiving antenna. This is not observed if a circularly polarized receiving antenna is used."
"This paper considers the nonlinearity of the multiplier in the phase-locked loop which is optimized for a frequency ramp input. The third-order system with this nonlinearity is analyzed for transient response. Equilibrium points and stability are considered from eigenvalues, and transient response is determined using norm in phase space vs phase-space variables. The technique of getting error, error derivative, etc., vs time curves is described in great detail. Comparative study is made for the exact linear model, practical linear model and practical nonlinear model."
"A number of corrections are noted for the above-named work (ibid., SET-9, pp. 92-98; September, 1963)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The extraction of spectral density and correlation functions from vibration and acoustic signals, etc., has been undergoing a continuing process of refinement. This refinement has been brought about by more and more stringent analysis requirements. The design of improved analyzers to meet such requirements has been going on concurrently. Usually the signals to be analyzed are played back from magnetic tape recorders. The flutter of the tape transports involved can degrade or effectively destroy such possible desired parameters as high resolution, high dynamic range, extreme accuracy of analysis, etc., for either spectral density or correlation function plots. Formulae are developed to show how both sinusoidal and random components of flutter introduce error into the analysis, and to indicate how flutter limits the range of useable values of spectral resolution, correlation time-delay, etc. The pertinent features of a tape transport, the influential characteristics of its flutter, etc., are also discussed. Suggestions are also given regarding the interpretation of the data on transport flutter that is usually available."
"For ordinary binary PCM waveforms, the minimum-error probability demodulation operation is determined when decisions are made one-word-at-a-time utilizing an arbitrary number, n, of statistically dependent, received, noisy words. A method is then developed for simulating the minimum-error demodulation with a digital computer for the case of additive white Gaussian noise. By a Monte Carlo technique, minimum-error probabilities are computed for Gaussian data for n = 2 and n = 1, and for 3-bit and 6-bit words. The results are applicable regardless of the waveforms used to represent the binary digits (or bits). These results indicate that for word-error probabilities less than about 0.1, no very significant power gains accrue from the use of statistical dependence in the data unless the correlation coefficients between data samples are large (i.e., 0.98 or greater) for a large number of transmitted samples. However, the results also indicate that the effect of using the statistical dependence in the data is to reduce errors in the high order (most significant) bits of the code. Hence, significant gains might be obtained if an error amplitude criterion were used rather than error probability."
"The basic principles and advantages of recording and storing optical images in the form of equivalent electrical charge patterns on a special kind of flexible tape are presented. An experimental model of a slit-type camera system is described which was designed to demonstrate the feasibility of this method of recording. This type of camera system is particularly well suited to the recording of images of the earth's cloud cover from an orbiting satellite. Storing these images temporarily and reading them out in the form of a video signal when the satellite is near a ground station completes a cycle of operations. Results of preliminary tests are reported which verify the validity of the basic concepts involved in this kind of video recording system."
"Formulas are given for the field near twisted leads carrying equal and opposite direct currents, and results are plotted in dimensionless form for various cases. At some points twisting the wires is shown to strengthen rather than weaken the field."
"This paper analyzes the communication capability of a hard-limiting satellite repeater when spread-spectrum signals are used for asynchronous access multiplexing. It derives formal results which indicate the most suitable system bandwidth and the resulting maximum number of simultaneous users as a function of the ratio of the received signal power (over the entire system bandwidth) from the satellite to the available noise power density at the ground station receiver. Equally important, the paper sets forth the assumptions and approximations necessary to achieve the formal results and examines their weaknesses."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1964."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This radio aid to navigation differs from conventional radio beacons in the use of two spaced antenna arrays giving two separate directional radiation patterns. Preconditions and feasible solutions for the spatial separation of the arrays are shown. The use of the Doppler principle with its swing vs direction patterns permits transmission of the azimuth information independently of the carrier amplitude. This mode of operation precludes the disadvantages due to inhomogeneities in the two propagation paths established in the previously proposed split-antenna systems."
"The need for an accurate knowledge of ground speed, drift angle and distance traveled from an initial fix has prompted the military to sponsor development of airborne Doppler navigation systems. As a result of the military development programs and the arrival of the semiconductor age, the size, weight, cost and reliability of the Doppler nagivation systems has made it attractive to commercial carriers for navigation over long distant water routes where ground-based radio navigational aids are not available. Most of the major commercial carriers have operated Doppler systems on an experimental basis and many have adapted a Doppler system operationally to their long distance navigation problems. Some users of Doppler find that the measurement of ground speed and drift angle is sufficient to meet their navigational requirements. Other users find it advantageous to couple Doppler derived measurements of ground speed and drift angle with heading and hand set course data to a navigational computer. The output information of such a computer is the integral of ground speed resolved into along course and cross distances traveled. The initial along course distance to the next way point and the magnetic course angle is normally set into the computer. When the computer indicates zero along course and zero cross-course miles, the aircraft has arrived at the way point, within the accuracy of the system. Most computers are mechanized so as to automatically transfer stages when the along course dial of the active stage reads zero."
"This paper describes a study of the statistical unlock characteristics of the commonly used optimum type II phase-locked loop taking into account the nonlinearity of the phase detector. The unlock behavior is investigated by simulating the loop with random noise inputs on a digital computer. A criterion of loop unlock is evolved using the phase portrait of the loop and consists of crossing of separatrices by loop error and a measure of loop error rate. Approximately 100 statistically independent trials were made for each of a number of combinations of initial phase error, initial frequency error, and input noise amplitude. From these computer runs, cumulative frequency distributions of unlock time and curves of mean time to unlock were obtained and are presented. The phase portrait of the loop containing time information also is included in the paper, along with a plot of capture characteristics for large initial frequency offsets."
"This paper discusses some aspects of high altitude, supersonic flight which should be considered in the design of the SST communications system. Emphasis is placed on the need for a high degree of coordination between the flight crew, air traffic controller, meteorologist and dispatcher-performance specialist. A brief description of pertinent B-58 aircraft operational experience is offered in support of the suggestions made regarding the nature of the information which should be communicated."
"In this paper the author has used the theory of zero crossings of random processes to analyze the errors due to receiver noise of a triangularly modulated FM-CW radar. Curves are given that can be used to determine the percentage error in the range measurement as a function of signal-to-noise ratio, provided the shape of the noise spectrum is known. The method of analysis is illustrated by predicting the performance of a particular radar, and is checked by comparing the calculations to system measurements. The theory can be used in the preliminary design stages to optimize the receiver design."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A.M. Naqvi and R.J. Levy, authors of \"Some Astronomical and Geophysical Considerations for Space Navigation,\" which appeared on pp. 154-170 of the September, 1963, issue of these Transactions, have called the following to the attention of the Editor: 1) On p. 159, Fig. 5, the curves from top to bottom are for mpg=20, 15, 10 and 5, respectively. 2) On p. 167, Table XII, the entries are 100 Transmissivity (per cent)."
"An FM-CW radar is described which simultaneously furnishes three-dimensional velocity and absolute altitude information. The velocity is measured by means of a low-frequency FM-CW Doppler technique, and the altitude information by means of phase comparison on one of the sidebands of the received spectrum. The optimum radar parameters required for the two functions are completely compatible. Use of the first-order sideband permits operation of the system down to zero feet altitude; use of the second order to very nearly zero feet. Offset reference frequency techniques and narrow-band leakage elimination techniques permit system operation through zero speed and to negative speeds. Contrary to that of conventional FM-CW altimeters, the altitude measurement technique is unaffected by amplitude noise and by frequency (Doppler) noise due to vehicle motion. The radar technique is particularly applicable to helicopters, VTOL aircraft, lunar landing vehicles and possibly also to satellite rendezvous. Actual flight test results have demonstrated the feasibility of the radar technique."
"The influence of random phase errors on the angular resolution of a focused synthetic aperture radar system is treated. The principal measure of performance has been taken as the mean envelope power at the system output. This system output power is evaluated exactly, although not in closed form, based on the following assumptions: 1) the real beam pattern is Gaussian; 2) the random phase error is essentially a geometry-independent ergodic process with a Gaussian amplitude distribution and zero mean; and 3) the random phase error has a Gaussian correlation function. The curves presented in this paper can be used to estimate expected system power response, expected system resolution and effective aperture length beyond which, in the presence of phase error, little gain in resolution is expected. It was found that multiple sources of error with different correlation intervals make explicit solution of the integral equation for system power response practically impossible. In this situation, a reasonable approach is to evaluate the system power response separately for each error. If one of the errors is clearly dominant, it may be regarded as bounding achievable performance."
"An investigation made by P. Swerling [4] determining the limits that receiver noise imposes upon the accuracy with which the angular position of a target may be estimated by a pulsed search radar, is extended to determine additional accuracy limitations imposed by the quantization of signal strengths prior to angle estimation. This analysis follows that of Swerling in form. The results are presented in graphs. For many cases of practical interest, the additional limitation in accuracy may be neglected."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper presents a method of computing the cumulative probability of detection of a statistically located target. The method is completely analytic and is based on a very simple model. The curve which relates the single scan probability of detection to the target-interceptor range is replaced by the function which is 1.0 up to some critical range and 0 thereafter. The critical range is that value which results in equal areas under the two curves. A factor AR is calculated which depends on scan angle, closing velocity and scan time, and which approximates the decrease in effective range due to nonzero scan time and closing velocity. Finally, a cumulative probability of detection is calculated using an assumed target distribution. An \"exact\" evaluation via a digital computer takes into account the actual single scan detection probability (as a function of range), the effect of multiple scans, flyback time, scan time variation with angle, and closing velocity as well as the target distribution. A comparison of the results obtained by the two methods show the simple analytical model to be sufficiently accurate for all but the most exacting analyses."
"A theoretical expression is derived for the radar range accuracy attainable with an N-tapped delay line estimator. It is found that the range accuracy is a function of the signal-to-noise ratio and the number of taps. In the limiting case, as the number of taps approaches infinity, it is shown that the accuracy expression agrees with the ultimate attainable accuracy for a bandwidth-limited rectangular pulse. The results of a computer simulation of the delay line estimator scheme with two, six, and ten taps are reported and compared with the theory."
"A mathematical model for the error distribution of the best estimate of position of a vehicle as determined from a set of simultaneous measurements of times of arrival of electromagnetic waves from an arbitrary number of ground stations is obtained. The major and minor axes of the error ellipse, as well as the angle that they make with the assumed axes, are determined. The results are in such form as to be easily adaptable for use with a computer."
"A study is made of inaccuracies due to environmental beam-distorting effects in precision Doppler radar navigation systems and specifically of \"interrupted continuous wave\" (ICW) Doppler systems which simultaneously determine altitude and velocity by the employment of several beams, all of them produced by a single transmitter. The three causes of errors considered include terrain directivity (back-scattered power varying with angle of incidence); range effects (power backscattered by individual infinitesimal patches of terrain varying as R-4, where the range R is not constant over the area illutminated by any single beam); and nonconstant eclipsing [the degree of eclipsing of the energy arriving from any direction varying as a function of the angles (ø, θ) specifying the direction]. All of these effects tend to cause the \"effective\" Doppler frequency fTje indicated by the jth tracker to be different from the frequency fTj0 corresponding to zero beamwidth [i.e., fTj0 = -(2/λ)(V · bj0) where bj0 is the unit vector along the beam axis]. A related cause of inaccuracy is the noise-like character of the return, caused in part by the nonzero bandwidth BJ of the Doppler spectrum corresponding to beam #j (the Doppler frequency of the return from any direction varying as a function of the angles ø, θ). Formulas, in the form of integrals, are derived for fTje and Bj. The velocity components Va1, Va2, Va3 relative to antenna axes, or any other convenient set, are linear combinations of the effective tracker frequencies, \\begin{equation*} Vai = Σ/i CijfTie."
"In this paper, a description of a technique for improving transient performance in the velocity inertial system while minimizing the standard deviation of the system error, (i.e., standard deviation of the system velocity measurement error σv2) is given. To accomplish this objective, a prescribed settling time constraint is formulated for the system response. The constraint equation is then imposed on the minimization process. The result shows that considerable settling time improvement can be derived without sacrificing system accuracy."
"The torque on a spinning spherical conducting shell of arbitrary thickness in a uniform magnetic field is calculated in terms of the magnetic vector potential. The torque is found to result from the interaction of eddy currents induced in the shell with the excitation field and is such as to oppose and precess the spinning of the shell."
"The calculation of torque acting on a spinning spherical shell in a uniform stationary magnetic field first presented by Halverson and Cohen1 is extended to include the alternating magnetic field case. The torque is found under certain conditions to be positive and will increase the sphere's angular velocity up to a stable equilibrium condition at which point the torque changes sign. Differential equations are solved in terms of the magnetic vector potential which is used to calculate the induced eddy currents and resultant magnetic field. A complete solution is given for the solid sphere while approximations are used to obtain a thin shell solution."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A.R. Giddis and R.B. Barrar, authors of \"An Improved Ground Beacon Antenna,\" which appeared on pp. 315-323 of the December, 1963, issue of these Transactions, have called the following to the attention of the Editor: 1) The argument of the J9 function in the second term of (6), on page 318, should be enclosed with an \"open\" parenthesis, i.e., J9(kd9). 2) The lower angular limit of the upper exponential function in (17), on page 320, should read θ1, i.e., θl is greater than or equal to θ is greater than or equal to θ0. The sense of the presentation is not compromised by these errors which should become evident to the reader."
"An analytical technique using a symbolic representation of the coordinate transformation for a rotation of axes is presented. The representation has the advantages of a signal flow diagram and yet retains the properties of a transformation matrix. A sign convention and the characteristics of the symbolic representation are defined. Examples are given which illustrate application of the technique to several typical problems encountered with rotating coordinate systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A general theory of optimum linear estimation is considered in relation to the problem of reconstructing a nonstationary random signal sampled at arbitrary times and in the presence of a sampling noise. The resulting optimum filter predictor takes the form of a growing memory digital compensator. Presentation of the theory is tutorial, and a contrast to recursive estimation is discussed. Application is made to the use of external discrete position information in a long-term inertial navigator. A comparison between the optimized system and a reference (non-optimum) system is presented. Consideration is also given to truncation effects and the very important matter of the effect of poorly estimated problem statistics on performance of the optimized system. Digital computer simulation studies are presented."
"Techniques for enhancing visual flight control by using quickening concepts are described. The pilot receives both guidance and flight control information from the relative positions of projected virtual images appearing through the windshield and landmarks in the real world. The vehicle may then be controlled to couple to a preselected flight path in space terminating on the landmark. This is accomplished in a continuous control task in which the pilot tracks the landmark with a director image. First-, second-, and third-order quickened control systems are described and analyzed from a dynamic standpoint. These techniques permit the pilot to control and monitor the course of his vehicle while in complete visual contact with the real world. The precision and confidence with which the pilot can implement the control task are augmented."
"The Loran-C Navigation System affords an extraordinary facility for both high-precision and long-range navigation using radio signals. Its potential is defined largely by the capability of the receiving set and, in the past, also by the skill and patience of a trained operator. There has been a continuing effort by the industry to achieve a receiver that is simple and economical to operate, but which at the same time makes use of the ultimate potential of the Loran-C system. As the title implies, this discussion pertains to comprehensive effort to achieve these objectives by 1) reducing the receiver to a digital system and 2) applying integrated digital microcircuits. The practicability of extending digital techniques in the area of communications and control systems is demonstrated by the receiver being described, which is officially designated the AN/ARN-76."
"Computation of the entire clutter spectrum for Doppler radar has been reduced to a few simple formulas, by integration of reflected energy between constant Doppler loci, using the fourth power range law. The results are widely applicable, and have been found in agreement with both flight tests and a computer program study."
"An ideal synthetic-aperture mapping radar system is postulated. The response of this system is then computed for 1) a point target, 2) locally homogeneous terrain, and 3) terrain of arbitrary reflectivity. Relationships for achievable resolution, swath width, and final map SNR vs the independent parameters of vehicle altitude, terrain scattering coefficient, carrier wavelength, vehicle velocity, and average radiated power are developed. The ideal system considered in this paper can be approximated in practice, for small real-antenna beamwidths, by using large time-bandwidth chirp waveforms and sin x/ x illumination of the real-antenna aperture."
"Picture processing and alteration for the purpose of quantification and map matching are discussed and the mathematics thereof derived. The statistics of such pictures, reduced to a black-and-white state, are developed. The theoretical derivation of the autocorrelation and crosscorrelation of any two-level pictures is described on the basis of their measured statistics. The importance of such correlation to scene classification and to map matching for the purposes of navigation and homing guidance is shown. The effects of various types of noise that may corrupt one or both copies of the pictures to be correlated are assessed. Finally, the validity of the theory is demonstrated by applying it to specific cases of synthetic radar maps as well as to other displays."
"Walter R. Fried, author of \"An FM-CW Radar for Simultaneous Three-Dimensional Velocity and Altitude Mleasurement,\" which appeared on pp. 45-57 of the MIarch, 1964, issue of these Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. In order to be correct, the diagram now appearing above the Fig. 3 caption belongs to Fig. 1; the diagram now appearing above the Fig. 1 caption belongs to Fig. 2; and the diagram now appearing above the Fig. 2 caption belongs to Fig. 3."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The mosaic radar display system combines the coverage from multiple unsynchronized surveillance radars, each covering adjacent geographical areas. The principle of a central scan conversion center is used, which allows an operator to select the portion of the multiple radar coverage he wishes to view on his display. Each display in the system can be independently positioned to selected sectors within the mosaic without mutual iterference."
"A dual antenna radar airborne moving target indication (AMTI) system is a scheme for eliminating or sharply reducing residual ground clutter fluctuation and stationary target residue so that moving target returns are easier to detect. Successive pulse transmissions are alternately transmitted from the two antennas, each of which is connected to its own receiver. The two antennas are arranged longitudinally (in the flight path of the airplane) in such a relative position that the rear antenna occupies the same position as the forward one after one repetition period. The pulse from the first (forward) antenna is delayed after square-law detection, and subtracted from the square law detected second pulse return. If the two antennas have identical antenna patterns and transmitted pulse shapes, and if there are no position errors, the returns from stationary objects will be perfectly cancelled (except for a noise residue, neglected in this paper). This paper derives clutter cancellation and moving target enhance ment formulas in terms of the antenna patterns and position errors. The formulas are complicated, so certain approximations are suggested for rough-cut calculations."
"A simple slot and bar type scanning device has been developed to measure the speed of optical images and the angular velocity of moving targets possessing intensity (or color) contrast. If the distance to the target is known, it can be used to measure target velocity. The instrument is sensitive only to the component of image velocity in the direction of scanner motion and is able to distinguish image speed of either sense."
"The phase-locked loop has been suggested as a possible replacement for the banks of contiguous filters used to process Doppler signals. Two basic systems are considered, differing only in the type of phase sensitive detector used. The two types of phase sensitive detectors are the sinusoidal type and the sawtooth type. The sawtooth-type phase sensitive detector is shown to be superior in several respects. The sawtooth-type detector is supenor with respect to noise rejection, acquisition time and system design considerations. A phase-locked loop system using the sawtooth-type phase sensitive detector is shown to meet the requirements for a typical situation."
"A model for pure inertial navigation systems is defined which describes a wide class of dynamically exact systems for terrestrial and space applications. Based on this model a standard error block diagram is described and it is shown how the conventional simplifying assumptions lead to the specific version used for slow moving terrestrial applications. To efficiently treat augmented inertial systems, a generalized approach to error analysis of estimation systems is introduced. This approach, discussed in an earlier paper, is amplified as it pertains to augmented inertial systems. It is shown how the standard error propagation block diagram can be used to place the augmented inertial navigation system error analysis in the canonical form necessary for a generalized error analysis. Augmentations considered are position, velocity and attitude fixes. Specific examples are given."
"Sensitivity criteria are reviewed and concisely formulated in terms of system flowgraphs. Formulas are developed for the sensitivity of a terminated two-port, if subject to variations of wide range of parameters, and the results are tabulated. The effectiveness of sensitivity calculations is demonstrated through numerous examples such as the voltage sensitivity of a regulated power supply. Other examples include a probabilistic model of failure modes in reliability. The techniques are thus extended to systems with predictable rather than measurable, parameters. The flowgraph approach provides 1) insight into system operation, 2) facilitates sensitivity calculations and 3) establishes a systematic approach to assess the effects of parameter variations."
"The development of the function-ensemble-average concept of automatic image displacement determination permits a practical realization of terminal guidance for ballistic weapons systems. In this paper the fundamentals of this concept are developed both theoretically and experimentally. Illustrative examples are presented."
"The accuracy of any gyro stabilized platform depends to a large extent upon maintaining the net torques applied to the stabilized element at a low level. This requires that the static gain of the servosystem be high in order to effectively counteract torque disturbances. Generally a basic stability problem results which requires servo lead compensation. Beyond this, the lead compensation must be effective in controlling resonant amplitudes during dynamic disturbances. This article treats the stability problem for platforms employing gyros which have negligible damping about the precession axis. The air bearing gyro is a notable example. The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, a simple analytical method is introduced to define compensation parameters which will allow control of the undamped natural frequency, and which will establish a damping factor of one half. Second, a new device is introduced which will greatly simplify the task of generating an effective compensation signal. This device is a tiny gimbal-mounted intertial angular rate sensor called \"ADA.\""
"Induction resolvers are commonly used as coordinate converters in many systems in which vector resolution is required. In systems that require several coordinate conversions, the error due to the conversion mechanism may limit the accuracy of the system. Because of the inherent nonlinear nature of coordinate conversion, this error is, in general, difficult to determine. In this paper, a resolver model and a statistical basis for computing the error due to the conversion mechanism are developed. Two example resolver coordinate converters and the confidence limits for their resolution accuracy are presented."
"The supersonic transport offers many benefits in passenger confidence and convenience; however, it poses new problems in economy and safety in flight. Recent advances in micro-miniature technology make possible applications of digital data processors to the solution of these problems. The paper includes a discussion of the functions of navigation, flight control, flight management, data link and inflight recording and maintenance. Micro-miniature circuit technology is also described as applied to the central flight management computer. Representative organizations are presented for several alternate processors."
"Design characteristics and test results of an HF digital communication system for long-distance (several thousand miles) air-to-ground communication are described. The system was designed to operate reliably under adverse (multiple) propagation conditions by applying frequency and time diversity in form of quantized frequency modulation (QFM). Comparative tests with an audio-frequency-shift keying (AFSK) system under equal conditions show significantly better performance for the QFM system."
"A logical development of a novel, minimum-complexity guidance system for precise and soft lunar landing is presented together with an evaluation of predominant error sensitivities. Selection of this minimum-complexity system is influenced by its ability to handle a wide range of initial condition, sensor, propulsion and control system errors with minimum fuel and accuracy penalty. The trajectory control technique allows excellent compromise between sensor requirements (e.g., Doppler and beacon tracking radar gimbaling), control system complexity and total fuel usage. Proof of performance is given in terms of analog and digital computer simulation results plus theoretical correlation. Results include specific application to the proposed Saturn V Lunar Logistic Vehicle. Design guides are evolved for system synthesis and for potential application to future missions. Demonstrated performance includes terminal maneuvers of 5 km with touchdown displacement errors of less than 200 meters and velocities of less than 4 meters/sec vertically and 1 meter/sec horizontally."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1964."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The acoustic reflex is a regulator, which is thought to act as a protective mechanism in limiting the magnitude of high level sounds before they reach the cochlea."
"A computer program is described for the preparation of decision tables (based upon observed statistics) for diagnosis. The procedure does not depend upon the assumption that symptoms occur independently. The program is intended for preliminary diagnosis or screening, therefore it should have value as a device of preventive medicine. This program is available from SHARE as HO BC CRIT."
"Two electrometer amplifier circuits employing a unipolar Field-Effect Transistor and an insulated gate Field-Effect Transistor respectively are described. Design and performance criteria are discussed."
"In order to explore the usefulness of general purpose computers for clinical neurological research, a group of 57 epileptic patients was coded in detail in regard to neurologic, psychiatric, psychologic and electroencephalographic findings. 1152 different variables were recorded from each patient and punched on cards. The frequency distribution of each variable was then obtained, and 155 were subsequently utilized for intercorrelations. 1089 statistically significant correlations were obtained. 88 variables with the highest correlation coefficients were then subjected to factor analysis and 11 factors were extracted."
"An instrument is described for recording the fetal heart rate using a microphone strapped onto the abdomen. Special precautions have been taken to reduce the effects of extraneous noise received by the microphone. The electronic system incorporates a narrow passband amplifier, a rapidly responding automatic gain control circuit, and a ratemeter in which the intervals between successive pulses are compared so that pulses which are unlikely to be genuine can be disregarded. The equipment is suitable for operation by nontechnical personnel, and has been used regularly in a maternity hospital for a period of eighteen months."
"An instrument for automatic measurement of the electrocardiographic lead tensors in a human torso model has been developed. Potential is measured and recorded at 427 points on a sphere within the model and from these data the spherical harmonics of the potential function and the components of the lead tensors are computed. The system can also be used for general purpose potential measurement in small electrolytic tanks. A stepping motor drives a radial arm in elevation and azimuth and a probe suspended vertically from the arm dips into the neck of the model. The potential is measured by two servo-driven bridge circuits and is simultaneously recorded on a strip chart and entered in numerical form on punched cards. Scale expansion is available when measuring fields of low gradient."
"Certain obstetrical problems in labor affecting the unborn baby may result in death of the baby before and after birth or may be responsible for brain damage disorders. Because these problems occur frequently, it is necessary to evaluate fetal well-being as closely as possible in labor. The use of the fetal heart rate as an indication of the fetal condition in labor is discussed and the necessity for constant monitoring of the fetal heart rate is emphasized. The special problems associated with monitoring in labor are noted. A fetal phonocardiotachometer is described which operates with an acoustic signal to noise ratio of +3 db after filtering to monitor heart rate over a range of approximately 70 to 210 beats per minute. It will follow a maximum rate of change of rate within this range of six beats per minute per second. So far over 300 cases were followed with the instrument."
"Simultaneous analysis of four measures, Electroencephalogram (EEG), Base Skin Resistance and Galvanic Skin Response (BSR/GSR), Electrocardiograph (ECG), and respiration, were employed to detect changes in the level of Central Nervous System (CNS) arousal. In the original configuration, a 6-channel personalized telemetry unit transmitted all measures except EEG. A separate transmitter was used for EEG. Subsequently an outboard subcarrier oscillator unit was developed to incorporate the EEG on the common RF carrier. Problems of electronic interaction through body contact electrodes, insulation leakage of sensors, a single-ended system, and excessive subcarrier drift were encountered. Solutions to these problems were found. Analyses included the conversion of EEG to units of activation, beat-by-beat rate analysis of ECG, breath-by-breath rate analysis of respiration, and a slow writeout of base skin resistance. Sample results of data obtained from the personalized telemetry are presented, and the appearance of analyzed records included. Major changes in levels of CNS arousal were generally identifiable in any one measure. Subtle changes are frequently clearly demonstrable employing this system for simultaneous presentation of analyzed multiple physiological measures."
"J.S. Ford has called the following to the attention of the Editor. In \"Evaluation of a Simple Computer for Cardiac Output Measurements Based on Thermal Dilution,\" by H.U. Wessel, J.E. Jacobs, 0.D. Despe, and P. Kezdi, which appeared on pages 155-159 of the April, 1962, issue of these Transactions: On page 157, the last term of the formula A = 1/2((Yo + Yn)) + Y1 + Y2 + ... + Yn-1 should read Yn-1. The formula is the Trapezoidal Rule according to \"Reference Data for Radio Engineers,\" page 1033, instead of Simpson's Rule."
"A sampled-data model for the eye tracking movements has been recently suggested by L. Young (1962, 1963). It was stated that for step inputs only the part of the model which corresponds to the saccadic system will respond and the part corresponding to the pursuit system will remain inactive due to a velocity limiter of about 30° per second. However, a closer consideration of the model reveals that this is not the case. The velocity estimator samples at intervals of 0.2 seconds, hence, for a step input less than 0.2 X 30 = 6° the pursuit system wiii try to follow. This is not in agreement with the physiological experimental result that even for step inputs as low as 1° the saccadic system is the only one operating. Also, the velocity limiter must be at least at 25° per second. Hence, a change of the numerical values of the parameters of the model cannot improve it. This communication does not intend to present a complete model for the eye tracking movements but simply to suggest some improvements on the one proposed by Young. However, one can already see that the more suitable approach for a complete model would be by using neural nets rather than lumped elements."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The paper describes some results of statistical analysis and classification of electrocardiograms (ECG) on a digital computer. The linear regression method is chosen for the analysis mainly because of its conceptual and mathematical simplicity. The analysis is based on the ECG waveform itself rather than the special criteria established by the experience of physicians. Three-lead ECGs for each subject were used. Each ECG was approximated efficiently by 12 orthonormal exponentials. Nine direction cosines were used to describe the spatial orientation of the vectorcardiographic loop. These 45 parameters (3×12+9=45) were regarded as coordinates in a 45-dimensional vector space, and the statistical analysis was aimed at relating certain portions of the vector space with the pathological categories. This procedure is intended primarily as a research tool. With ECGs of 53 subjects, the method has been quite promising. However, demonstration of clinical significance will require additional experimental investigation."
"Image matrices of chest X-ray films were recorded in digital form on magnetic tape using a flying spot scanner, an analog-to-digital converter, and a digital computer system. These taped images were used as input to the computer which, by means of its stored program, automatically measured the maximum transverse diameter of the heart shadow, maximum transverse diameter of the rib cage shadow, then calculated and printed out the ratio of these two measured values. This is the cardiothoracic ratio, which is a standard diagnostic index employed by physicians for detection of cardiac pathology, e.g., heart enlargement. To our knowledge, this is the first practicable and useful diagnostic index successfully determined directly from an unaltered X-ray film through the use of a digital computer."
"Quantitative results are derived for the accuracy to be associated with average response computations on a wide class of nonstationary physical data as a function of underlying signal and noise properties and the sample size used by the average response computer. Input and output SNR's are defined in terms of these quantities. Statistical confidence bands are determined for both arbitrary probability distributions and for Gaussian probability distributions, which indicate how closely a measured sample mean value approximates the true mean value at any time."
"Section I discusses the results of analyses conducted on time records of ventilation, for periods up to five hours, for young adult male subjects in a conscious minimal power state. The results imply the following: 1) Temporal patterns of ventilation are characterized by the superposition of a denumerable set of almost periodic sustained oscillations with time dependent and stochastic variations. 2) Different subjects exhibit the same number of deterministic components within similar ranges of frequency. 3) A typical pattern contains cycles with nominal periods on the order of one minute, four, nine, twenty, forty minutes, and two and one-half hours with deviations in period and amplitude due to inherent non-stationarity and random fluctuations, especially at higher frequencies. 4) Resting state ventilation oscillates about the mean with an amplitude on the order of half the mean."
"To study the peripheral vascular system of anesthetized dogs, a whole body, blood perfusion system was developed to provide 1) a nonpulsatile output of 2) constant pressure (0-300 mm Hg), or 3) constant flow (0-3 liters/minute), or 4) any output characteristic between these extremes, and 5) the output controllable from a voltage command signal. Output is determined by pneumatic pressure, adjusted by a servo valve from the error signal, which drives the blood from a reservoir into the animal's aorta. The error signal is derived from the difference between either a flowmeter or pressure-gage signal and an adjustable set-point voltage, or any combination of these signals. Response time is less than 1 sec. Heat and gas exchange are provided by a double-walled disk oxygenator. Plasma hemoglobin accumulation is typically 0.2 mg/ml hour."
"The dielectric constant and electrical conductivity of the lens of the eye have been investigated throughout the frequency range from 0.5 to 200 Mc. The values obtained are frequency dependent. The frequency dependence is found consistent with the assumption of lens fiber membranes which are characterized by a membrane capacitance of very approximately 1μf/cm2. This is typical for biological membranes in general. Thus the existence of lens fiber membranes which are similar in molecular structure to the membranes of other biological cells is indicated. The dielectric data at very high frequencies are satisfactorily explained by the lens protein content."
"The method described allows rapid analysis, by pH modulation, of the coalescence of small samples of biological materials in dilute suspensions. Specifically, agglutination of various species of viruses and bacteria at their isoelectric points, and the polymerization process of the muscle protein actin are investigated. A typical time of analysis is 20 sec, and 5 ml of suspensions as dilute as 0.2 mg/ml are sufficient for most viruses investigated."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Ultrasound echoing using a pulse transmitted transversely across the head can determine quickly and safely the symmetry of position of the brain within the cranial cavity. A brief pulse at about 2 Mc is transmitted into the head, and the reflections from the walls of the third ventricle and the septum pellucidum are picked up by the transducer which serves alternately as transmitter and receiver. Although most of the incident energy is reflected by skull, a sufficient portion of the pulse enters the head to be detected after reflection by smooth internal discontinuities properly oriented to reflect the pulse back to the transducer. Positioning of the transducer is highly critical and requires some practice. The lateral displacement of the third ventricle and septum pellucidum generally is a sensitive indicator of an increase of volume of the contents of one half of the cranial cavity relative to the other. These structures lie within the opening in the falx cerebri through which brain tissue must herniate when displaced from one compartment to the other. The technique is totally atraumatic and in most cases easily performed."
"Experimental animals were exposed to a 10-cm microwave field in order to study the heating and cooling characteristics of the entire animal and localized sensitive structures. The flanks of rats, rabbits and dogs were exposed and the whole body heating was observed. After heating, the cooling curve was determined. Similarly, restricted area fields were used to study heating and cooling of eyes and testes. Data on the heating and cooling rates were used to determine the most sensitive structures. The experimental findings, together with the values for some pertinent related factors from the literature, provide the basis for an estimation of the possible risks to man from exposure to microwaves."
"The potential is described everywhere for a nonhomogeneous circular lamina which simulates a transverse section through the chest at the ventricular level. The field is generated by an arbitrary electromotive double layer in the wall of the eccentric ``heart.'' The field may be made dipolar (or nondipolar) with or without axial symmetry. Specific resistivities may be assigned to ``heart-cavity blood,'' to ``heart wall,'' to ``pericardial fluid,'' to ``lung region,'' to ``torso-shell'' or ``chest wall'' and to the medium exterior to the ``body.'' The size of various regions is arbitrary as is the eccentricity of ``heart center.'' A particular case with axial symmetry is computed and the results are compared with appropriate model experimentation. The way is hereby opened to three-dimensional treatment."
"Included in this paper is a discussion of the operating principle, design, construction and testing of a stroke-limited, transistorized, pneumatic pressure cycling system for a single-chambered artificial heart. The system is free of valve-stiction catastrophes, and reveals that conventional calculations of heart power based on mean blood pressure, cardiac output and kinetic energy of the aortic blood should be augmented substantially to account for turbulence, valve resistance and pneumatic feedline distensibility. Graphs are presented to illustrate the over-all performance data."
"An instrument for the measurement of pulsatile blood flow has been developed. The device uses a small probe suitable for intravascular insertion, and the method of measurement employs a combination of ultrasonic pulse techniques and phase detection."
"A device is presented which utilizes a novel transistor switch for dc restoration of base line in neurophysiological recordings of impulse activity. A gate which operates the switch is derived from the initial rise of an impulse. The switch and associated circuitry allow only the impulses to pass and deliver no signal between impulses."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1964 Proceedings of the Fifth Annual Symposium on Switching Circuit Theory and Logical Design."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"This paper presents an extension of the basic concepts established by Robert McNaughton and David Muller in the field of asynchronous feedback networks. The ideas developed herein are the results of adapting common logical functions in a manner that simplifies the overall design of asynchronous systems. The prime objecttive is to overcome a weakness common to both of the aforementioned concepts, that of a network requiring storage for each input to it. In addition, a method is proposed to eliminate Muller's requirement of maintaining a spacer between the binary bits that a system processes. Finally, consideration is given to the idea of developing a three level logic feedback network which permits single line representation of data rather than the accepted two line approach."
"A speed independent circuit has the property that the relative speed of operation of the various logic elements does not affect the over-all behavior of the circuit. Such circuits have properties which are of particular importance in the design of reliable asynchronous circuits. An Arithmetic Control for a digital computer is one type of logic which can profitably use these characteristics. The design objective established for the Arithmetic Control for the new Illinois computer was to obtain speed-independent operation. This design effort was not completely successful since a small portion of the logic in this control cannot be considered speed-independent unless an assumption is made which is not justified in practice. Using this fact as motivation, these studies investigate three new methods for designing speed-independent logic. In these studies, two very different approaches to the design of control logic are used. The first method is based on a building-block technique where a control logic is formed by properly interconnecting standard subsections of speed-independent logic. When the second technique is used, the sequencing problem is represented by Gray Code movements on an n-cube; these sequencing movements are determined by the mapping of flow chart requirements onto the n-cube. Since the controls designed using these very differents methods were only slightly different in size, it was concluded that within the context of these studies the choice of design method has only a small effect on control size."
"The inherent problems of data transmission in a strictly feedforward line have been discussed in the literature. In such a line, where the stored data are indexed forward by control pulses moving in a direction away from the data source, if time variations exist in the delays of successive stages then there is always a nonzero probability that two successive control pulses will eventually appear at the inputs to a given stage so closely spaced that the basic reaction time necessary for the stage to accommodate to new conditions will be violated. If each stage of the line is associated with an independent information symbol, then the inevitable result of such an interaction is the failure of the basic transfer mechanism and a consequent loss of information, i.e., an error. This weakness of the feedforward transfer mechanism is not due to individual stage failures, for it is assumed that all pertinent stage characteristics are bounded, but rather to the compiled effects of an arbitrary number of cascaded stages. Hence tighter design bounds on the individual stages can only lessen--not eliminate--the problem. Rather, the cause of this basic weakness is related to the fact that the control impulse that indexes information forward in the feedforward register line is Moving in the same direction as the flow of information. Inevitably, the loss of a control pulse midway along a line results in part of the string of symbols on the line (that part of the string that has been traversed by the impulse) moving forward relative to the symbol string ahead of it (not traversed by the impulse), hence in an overlap in the information stored on the line. Although actual information loss could be postponed in such a cascade pf stages by utilizing redundancy--e.g., by the utilization of a multivalued symbol alphabet capable of compacting the information as necessary--only a finite and predetermined amount of such compacting could be provided by physically realizable stages. Attacking this basic weakness of the feedforward scheme seems to result in a solution that avoids the problem altogether. If the control pulse moved in a direction opposite to the direction of information flow, that is if the control and information flows are antiparallel, then the loss of a control pulse would leave a void, or hole, in the information stored on the line. Indeed, an arbitrarily large number of such losses could only result in a greater and greater dispersion of a given amount of information (rather than a greater degree of overlapping), but would imply no necessary loss of information, nor a physically unrealizable storage requirement on the individual stages. In this paper this suggested alternative case is examined, and an antiparallel register stage is proposed. In lines composed of such stages the control pulses that index information forward on the line flow in the direction opposite to that of the information flow. The characteristics of such stages are described, as well as the augmentations that permit its adaptation to the construction of general logic networks and systems. Realizations of an antiparallel stage are presented in terms of conventional logical elements, as well as extensions of the stage to include logical fan-in and fan-out. Problems of network structure are considered, including cascaded trees and loops. Finally, a basic modification of the antiparallel stage is discussed that is capable of autonomous stimulation, and that also aids in the elimination of voids which occur during processing."
"Closed form expressions are obtained for enumerating the non-equivalent finite automata under serveral definitions of equivalence. Algorithms are presented for determining the number of connected automata and automata with a distinguished initial state. Useful lower bounds and asymptotic results are obtained."
"The notion of structural descriptions of sentences generated by context-free grammars is generalized to include structural descriptions of derivations in general rewriting systems (GRS's). A structural description is represented by a canonical member of the set of derivations having the same structural description."
"Certain properties of three variants of the multi-tape automata of Rabin and Scott are proved. Closure properties of the defined sets of n-tuples are found, and the nature of projections of the defined sets of n-tuples on one coordinate is studied. Some necessary conditions for acceptance are derived, and a characterization of the sets of n-tuples defined by non-deterministic n-tape automata is found. The results in the paper generalize and supplement the results of Rabin and Scott."
"In this paper we investigate how numbers, functions, and sequences can be classified according to their computational complexity. The computational complexity is measured by how fast the number or function can be computed by a multitape computer (Turing machine). It is shown that by means of this measure the computational complexity of numbers and functions can be submitted to rigorous mathematical study and a number of results are obtained."
"In this note we show how to construct some simply-configured N-state binary Turing machines that will start on a blank tape and eventually halt after printing a very large number of ones. The number of ones produced by these machines can be expressed analytically in terms of functional difference equation. The latter expression furnishes the best lower bound presently known for Rado's noncomputable function, Σ(N), when N ≫ 5."
"This paper describes the design of experimental procedures for determining whether or not a sequential switching circuit is operating in accordance with a given state-table description. These procedures are particularly easy to apply when the given state table is reduced, strongly-connected, and has a distinguishing sequence, and when the actual circuit has no more states than the given table. They can also be extended to cover more general cases, although the resulting experiments are more cumbersome."
"A technique is presented for deriving the shortest sequence of input symbols which must be applied to a sequential machine to guarantee that no fault from a set {p} exists within the machine. Flow tables are used to describe the machine for which a test is desired as well as all defective machines into which it is transformed by the faults of {p}. The set of flow tables is combined into a single composite table from which the optimum test sequence is found. Use of a composite table has the advantage that all possible sequences of input symbols need not be investigated. A large class of sequences which cannot possibly lead to an optimum test is easily recognized and discarded."
"Consideration is given to the manner and extent to which propagation delay and terminal packing factors may constrain the interconnection of modules making up large digital network. When formulated in graph-theoretical terms these considerations give rise to the problem of finding linear graphs with a maximum number, n, of nodes for a given degree, d, and diameter, k--a generalization of the problem of finding Moore graphs. A number of inequalities are derived that serve to delimit the function n(d, k), although its precise law of growth remains unknown. Maximal graphs have been found for several cases where Moore graphs are known not to exist. Finally, several interesting techniques are demonstrated for constructing families of graphs, which, though the are usually submaximal, possess a useful regularity of structure."
"In this paper a method is presented for reducing the number of stages of logic in the realization of an arbitrary Boolean function when an upper bound exists on the fan-in at each gate. A procedure for obtaining the minimum stage realization of the function in sum of products form is first developed. The use of factoring to reduce the number of stages below this minimum is then described."
"The problem of encoding inputs to an n-input, 2-output combinational circuit so as to reduce the number of variables upon which the two output functions depend is considered in this paper. It is assumed that the number of input conditions (n-vectors) which must produce each output state is given. It is clear that for each mapping of n-vectors into output status a different pair of output functions will be specified. The objective of this work is to find that pair of output functions which is independent of as many of the input variables as possible. The problem is first considered for the case where all 2n input conditions are specified. The solution obtained here is later generalized to allow for don't care conditions. The generalization of the problem to m output functions is also discussed."
"A diagrammatic approach to the problem of synthesizing multi-level logic functions is presented. It has the advantage of giving a visual interpretation to such abstract concepts as fan-in, levels of logic, decomposition, and two-level forms."
"This paper presents several uses of the logical connective of implication to problems of interest in switching theory. The implications which hold among the prime implicants of a function are examined. A new set of necessary and sufficient conditions for determining essential prime implicants and a rapid approximate method for obtaining minimal sums are included."
"Solving prime implicant tables is greatly facilitated by reduction techniques such as row dominance, column dominance and essential row selection. This paper presents a new reduction technique which is operable on any otherwise irreducible table having a column covered by two rows."
"In this paper, we define and discuss generalizations of partition pairs on sequential machines. The object of these generalizations is to suggest a unified approach to problems of information flow and machine structure."
"This paper presents a method for determining, from the flow table of a sequential machine, whether the machine is linearly realizable using the minimum number of unit delay elements. The method is an extension of a previously presented method for autonomous machines. A linearity algorithm is presented for each of two cases: a) where the output is given and is to be linear, and b) where the output is either not given or may be nonlinear. The method is simple, straight-forward and in general provides a ready solution to the linearity problem."
"The possibility of adding equivalent states to a flow table so that the augmented flow table will be realizable as a set of binary shift registers with feedback is discussed."
"Corona loss and radio interference (RI) from one single Drake conductor and one Drake 2-conductor bundle, installed on two short test lines have been measured at direct voltages up to 600 kv, positive and negative, under a variety of weather conditions and voltage levels. The Drake conductor is a 1.108-inch-diameter 795-MCM (thousand circular mil) ACSR (aluminum cable steel-reinforced) conductor with 16 outer strands of aluminum each of 0.175-inch diameter. Comparisons of corona-loss performance of these two conductor systems, obtained from both short-term voltage increment tests and from long-term constant voltage tests, are given. Equipment for loss measurements, including a shielding method which substantially reduces the measurement errors ordinarily introduced by losses through solid line insulation, is described. Results obtained from occasional surveys of RI at frequencies up to 10 mc (megacycles) are presented."
"Carrier frequency properties have been measured on a 40-mile stretch of 500-kv transmission line. A method is presented whereby these results may be extrapolated to predict carrier operating conditions on the complete 230-mile line, utilizing the principle of natural mode propagation."
"This paper describes a method for the optimum scheduling of pumped storage hydro in combination with a steam generating system. It also describes a computer program which determines weekly operating schedules for a pumped hydro station. The techniques developed can be used to evaluate future peaking capacity of this type and to estimate long-term operating costs for different combinations of steam and pumped storage capacity."
"This paper presents results of field testing on towers whose heights vary from 26 to 214 meters according to the author's new measuring method. The data of each tower were consistently in agreement. Surge characteristics of the towers were made clear by these measurements."
"The power-density spectrum of a power system's voltage is determined by considering it as a frequency-modulation (FM) process. The load on the system is represented by a gaussian, stationary, white-noise type of random variable. The influence of system parameters such as inertia, governor droop, servomotor time constant, and a transmission link with another system are investigated. This investigation is carried out numerically, using specific parameter values on a digital computer."
"Continuous system growth compels the design of transmission links with ever-larger capacities and higher voltages. If increase in cost of facilities is kept linear with voltage while the transfer capacity increases as the square of the voltage, substantial economies can be made in the cost of transmitting electrical energy. Extrapolation of conventional practices at 230 kv and 345 kv and small economies in component equipment would not achieve an economical insulation system for 500-kv service. Different concepts in insulation co-ordination were developed for 500 kv in order to achieve the desired economies. These concepts included: control of switching surges on lines and in the stations, a recognition that some switching surge flashovers are acceptable, just as is lightning, and allowance for diversity among factors which degrade insulation. Application of these principles in the selection of system insulation levels to be used by the Bonneville Power Administration's proposed 500-kv system is herein described."
"This paper deals with the engineering design features of the first 228-mile section of Ontario Hydro's 500-kv transmission line, the various design criteria, and related basic research and development work. It tells how these were used in selecting conductor stranding and tension, towers, foundations, guys and anchorages, insulation, hardware, and grounding, and emphasizes those aspects which are related to EHV (extra-high-voltage) transmission design."
"The keys to practical application of high-voltage (HV) direct current for power transmission are the rectifier and inverter, which supply the high voltage required for terminals of the d-c line. The grid-controlled mercury-arc tube with grading electrodes has proved to be a suitable valve in such converters. Special features and characteristics of HV converters and of the terminal stations are mentioned, and projects in operation and under construction are specified. Future fields of application are discussed."
"The special requirements on control of inverters for HV (high-voltage) d-c transmission have led to a special control system, which is described. Co-operation between regulators at each end of the transmission is necessary in reducing the consequences of disturbances in the converters. Also described are the switching and blocking of valve groups and how to accomplish this without using circuit breakers. The type of protective system is discussed in a general way."
"The electrical characteristics of bundled-conductor transmission lines are analyzed in terms of the transmission capability of bundled-conductor versus single-conductor lines. The results of the analysis are presented in the form of several graphs as well as extensive tabulations of bundled-conductor transmission line constants (inductive and capacitive reactances, surge impedances, and surge impedance factors) as a function of conductor size, bundled-conductor or intragroup spacing, number of conductors per phase, and phase separation. The range of analysis is such that transmission voltage classes between 69 kv and 700 kv are considered."
"This paper describes an engine-driven self-excited synchronous generator with a minimal air gap and a static voltage regulator, which has been designed for mobile or isolated power systems. There is no exciter. Voltage buildup is provided by the residual magnetism of hard-steel field-pole laminations. The field current is provided by a set of silicon rectifiers, supplied in part from the generator voltage and in part from the line current, with a circuit designed to hold constant volts per cycle, regardless of load changes. Test data are given which show that the generator has high efficiency, good overload capacity, and remarkably high motor starting ability."
"A design procedure for homopolar inductor-alternators is worked out. Special features such as field factors on an open circuit, reactances of armature reaction, computation of the short-circuit characteristic, and copper and iron losses are discussed. The stator leakage reactance, which forms an important parameter in the design and operation of these alternators is reviewed. The design of an eventual damper winding for these alternators is carried out, and the design details of a typical alternator are computed as an example."
"The Relays Committee has been studying present distribution circuit practices for several years. To give fellow engineers a review of present practices, trends, and special problems in distribution circuit protection, a Working Group on Distribution Circuit Protection sent a letter to all members of the Relays Committee. More than two dozen co-operating utilities replied to this request for a description of their distribution system together with a statement of the problems encountered in its protection."
"Footing-type grounding electrodes installed in the concrete foundations of residential and small commercial buildings designed to meet a maximum ground resistance value of 5 ohms are described. Bare solid copper electrode wires of various lengths, steel reinforcing rods, and 10-foot lengths of hot galvanized rigid steel conduit were used to determine the resistance values."
"In recognition of the approval of a new IEEE Standard (Guide) on Procedures for Impulse Voltage Testing of Insulated Conductors, a brief review of past developments and general progress in this field is presented. The early work of United States standards committees is noted, along with the later need for supplementation. A discussion of pertinent factors involved in standardization of impulse testing provides background for development of this standard. Comparison is made with a tentative draft of an Impulse Test Guide to be proposed by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). Finally, areas for future research in this field are suggested."
"The conversion of 2-terminal 138-kv transmission lines to multiterminal lines requires extension of microwave relaying communications to retain high-speed fault clearing of all terminals and high-speed reclosing of the transmission terminals. Economics and environment dictate the use of high-frequency cable instead of microwaves when the distances between terminals are 5 miles or less. Examples are given of the compatibility and flexibility afforded by this method of extending relaying communications. The methods that are used to circumvent the problem of power station rise of ground potential and the protection of communication equipment and cable are also described. Termination facilities for coaxial and balanced-pair cable installations are included."
"This paper is a supplement to ``Recent Practices and Trends in Protective Relaying'' and includes topics not covered in the previous paper. The evolution in the use of static devices and semiconductors in relay circuits is treated briefly, and some of the benefits and problems in the utilization of these devices are mentioned. The static relays available at present are described, together with some of their advantages and disadvantages. In evaluating the previous paper, it was felt that a section on backup relaying and on the use of digital computers by relay engineers should be included."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Series compensation can substantially increase the transmission capability of EHV (extra-high-voltage) systems, permitting a higher loading per right of way. Several of the possible circuit arrangements that can be used for insertion of series capacitors into a transmission system are cited in this paper. Certain technical problems of using series capacitors are analyzed. The effects of fault switching time on stability limit for series-compensated circuits and of delaying reinsertion of series capacitors after fault clearing are indicated for particular configurations. The relative economics of various degrees of series compensation and number of intermediate switching stations for 500 kv and distances up to 400 miles are also shown."
"This report was prepared as an activity of the Capacitor Subcommittee of the IEEE Committee on Transmission and Distribution, to extend the existing bibliography over the years of 1959-1962. A total of 189 articles are referenced and classified. An index of authors and a list of periodicals are also included. It is the intention of the Committee to maintain an up-to-date reference by issuing these reports at regular intervals."
"This paper describes a method of mathematically analyzing distributed parameter 3-phase transmission lines, with the objective of determining voltages and currents as functions of time at any point on the transmission system. The complete transient response may be calculated for typical boundary conditions, using the methods presented and programmed for a digital computer."
"A companion paper has developed the mathematical relationships describing a 3-phase transmission line, and has presented a particular method of solving these equations for the complete transient response. This paper applies these techniques to a number of switching-surge studies, with solutions developed through of a digital computer program."
"The high-frequency characteristics on nontransposed power lines have been calculated by the use of the principle of natural mode propagation, and it has been shown that some comparison between calculated and measured values on the vertically arranged 3-phase 2-circuit power line is possible."
"A quantitative research report is made here, based on tests of EHV (extra-high-voltage) insulator strings. Impulse, switching-surge, and a-c tests on vertical, horizontal, and 45-degree V-strings were carried out, using both positive and negative unidirectional impulses and 250- to 3,250-μsec (microsecond) switching surges. The switching-surge and a-c tests were made, both dry and wet, under ASA (American Standards Association) specifications. Research was instrumented in the CESI high-voltage laboratory in Milan, Italy. The full name of this laboratory is: Centro Elettrotecnico Sperimentale Italiano Giacinto Motta, the last two words referring to the late Dr. Motta, to whom the center is dedicated (see Figs. 1 through 3). The study included radio-influence (RI) measurements, determination of voltage distribution along the insulator strings, photographs, and cathode-ray records of each test. Interesting and useful data pertaining to the design of EHV lines were collected."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Proximity effect currents, caused by parallel conductors in proximity with each other, are important chiefly because of the increase in resistance loss that they cause. Large, nonmagnetic tubular enclosures for buses have low resistances, and special formulas are required. Formulas are given for open-circuit 3-phase enclosures and for bonded single-phase enclosures. The measurement of such circuits, giving curves of loss versus frequency, is best made on small metallic models at about 1,000 cycles, according to experience with other skineffect problems. The results can be adapted very precisely to 60-cycle cases, and they are needed to check the algebraic formulas and to determine the end effects in open-circuit tubes. Electromagnetic centimeter-gram-second units are used throughout."
"A new line of SF6 breakers has been developed to cover the range of 34.5 to 69 kv and 500 to 2,500 mva (megavolt-amperes). A new puffer-type interrupter is used to operate in sealed and grounded metal tanks at 60 psig (pounds per square inch gage) gas pressure. Interrupting tests and impulse voltage withstand tests have been made according to proposed new ASA (American Standards Association) standards. Capacitor switching tests have been made which show these breakers to be well suited for switching large single or multiple banks."
"A 3-phase interrupting test on a circuit breaker is the most severe test to demonstrate the breaker's interrupting ability. To demonstrate the 3-phase interrupting capability on a single-pole test, the fundamental frequency recovery voltage must be equal to 87% of line-to-line voltage. Most power utilities find it difficult to obtain proper voltage for this type of field test. This paper describes the test equipment and method employed, and the principle involved, in obtaining a single-pole circuit-breaker test at 87% of line-to-line voltage of 34.5-kv circuit breakers, conducted by the Department of Water and Power (DW&P) of The City of Los Angeles."
"The dynamic growth of utility systems has resulted in demands for power circuit breakers with faster interrupting times as well as higher interrupting capacities and continuous-current loadings. The rapid speed at which 500-kv system plans have developed and the current, interrupting megavrolt-ampere (mva), and insulation requirements which these systems have imposed on the circuit breaker designer are particularly significant."
"A line of outdoor air blast circuit breakers is described for ratings through 700 kv. These breakers are of a modular or building-block design and are an extension of an existing 115-345-ky line. They include resistors for preinsertion during circuit closing to minimize switching surges and are designed to handle the high charging current values of line dropping and the high recovery rates expected during power faults on transmission lines of extra-high-voltage (EHV) high capacity systems. The technical problems of EHV transmission impose numerous design criteria on power circuit breakers for these systems and do not permit the simple extrapolation of requirements from breaker designs of lower transmission voltages. Breaker development has paralleled the development of a new compound circuit test facility capable of proving its EHV high capacity abi1ity."
"A compound circuit is described for development and acceptance testing of circuit-breaker modules and circuit breakers up to 50,000 equivalent 3-phase module mva (megavoltamperes). The paper discusses high-current-source voltage requirements, synchronization of high-voltage-source application with final current zero, and high-voltage-source impedance requirements. Flexibility of the recovery voltage wave shape is demonstrated and its response to post-arc conductance discussed. Functioning of the circuit is described and test results and oscillograms shown. Major circuit components and their operation are explained. The facility may also be used without assistance from other sources for capacitance-switching tests up to 500 equivalent 3-phase module mvar (megavars). It is expected that this circuit will provide effective short-circuit testing for high megavolt-ampere breakers which is economically impractical by any other means."
"Extra-high-voltage transmission lines, designed in accordance with the AIEE lightning outage estimation method published in 1950, have actually experienced several times the outages predicted. Recent studies, based on new concepts of the lightning stroke mechanism, strongly indicate that lightning strokes to the phase conductors, or shielding failures, account for this sharp discrepancy. A low-cost instrument, rugged in design and readily installed, has been developed to discriminate between strokes to the shielding system or a phase conductor. Signals are easily read either from the ground or from a helicopter. Power follow current is similarly indicated. A minimum of 100 records are deemed essential to firmly allocate lightning outages to phase conductor or shield wire stroke terminations. To secure these records, it is recommended that a field study be conducted on a suitable mile-year sample of transmission lines. With this information available, the engineering prediction of the lightning performance of transmission lines can be placed on a much sounder basis and lines can be designed to a preselected level of tripout probability."
"The subject of stringing and sagging conductors is covered in three sections by three members of the Working Group. Section 1 deals with conductor CREEP, and was prepared by R. E. Larson, who is affiliated with the Rome Cable Division of Alcoa. Section 2 concerns CLIPPING OFFSETS. It was written by H. B. White, who is presently a consulting transmission engineer, formerly with the Aluminum Company of Canada, Ltd. Construction Practices, Section 3, was compiled by E. G. Lambert, who is with the Pacific Gas and Electric Company."
"An analysis of the transient voltages and currents that occur when a balanced capacitance load is connected to a salient-pole alternator is presented. The 2-phase co-ordinate equations of Clarke, describing the ideal machine, are solved by means of the Laplace transform. Armature resistance and field saturation are neglected. Expressions result, giving amplitudes and frequencies of components of the transients."
"A general procedure for calculating the magnitudes of all the spatial harmonic magnetomotive-force (mmf) waves is developed. This method is applicable to any polyphase winding with uniform coils and slot pitches, which is excited by a balanced polyphase supply and in which any or all of the coils are energized, no matter how they are connected. The procedure was programmed for a digital computer and numerous illustrative examples were computed; these include: comparison of a 24-slot 6-pole irregular winding with a 27-slot fractional-slot winding, effects of transposition of phase coils between groups, part-winding starting with adjacent poles excited and with alternate groups excited, three double-delta starting arrangements, and a 2-speed motor with pole-amplitude modulation. Previously published studies on these connections confirm the accuracy of the analysis presented here."
"A continuing investigation into the dielectric breakdown of polyolefin resin is reported. When sharp needle-point electrodes are embedded into solid resin, the highly divergent field allows relatively slow development of discharge channels, which can be observed as they grow to produce ultimate failure. The merits of two different electrode systems are discussed: (1) a single molded-in needle with a remotely located external ground, and (2) both high-voltage and ground electrodes, molded-in."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The transient temperature rise of a buried cable system may be determined by calculating that of the cable system assuming no temperature rise in the earth and adding to it a suitably formulated effective earth transient. Several families of curves developed on a digital computer are presented, one for each basic type of cable system, from which the applicable effective earth transient for a particular installation may be determined."
"A method is presented for determining the effect of winding potentials on voltage transformer errors. The transformer is represented as a 5-terminal network and equations are developed which give the variation of error in terms of easily measured coefficients. Measurements on actual transformers are described which indicate that the method yields the error variation to an accuracy of about 10%. Examples are given of the magnitude of error variation which may be expected when a transformer is used for line-to-line voltage measurement in a 3-phase system."
"An important factor in the design of power cables is the type of screen used over conductor and insulation. Some designers have used aluminum metallized paper tape for many years, but others have preferred carbon black (CB) paper tapes. It was discovered a few years ago, however, that CB paper screens increased the power loss in the cable dielectric at high voltages and temperatures. From hundreds of tests on model and experimental cables this increase in dielectric loss in the cable is shown to result from an internal or mass effect and a surface effect. A small part of the loss increment occurs within the body or mass of the CB paper itself, but a much larger part represents a surface effect believed to be caused by emission of electrons from the paper. These effects are larger at the outer electrode of the model cables than at the conductor. The loss increment is influenced to only a small extent by changes in the amount and treatment of gas channel CB used in the CB paper. However, a reduction in power loss can be obtained by the use of a special CB paper in which a single sheet of paper is formed with CB on one side and insulating paper on the other."
"Carbon black (CB) paper screening is today commonly used in oil-filled cables since, besides the well-known advantages already experienced with solid-type cables, it provides a considerable increase of the a-c dielectric strength. CB paper, however, causes an increase of the ``ionization factor.'' These phenomena are studied and the conclusion is drawn that they are closely interrelated. This fact is shown to be related to movements of charged particles in oil gaps adjacent to CB paper. Measurements and theoretical calculations are in good agreement."
"This paper presents a method of determining whether a joint design is within the recommendations of the Underground Systems Reference Book and suggests a program for automatic computing of uniformly stressed cable joints. The method is based upon the computed solution to the equations given in reference 1. Their recommendations are based upon experience and surveys of actual splicing practice and make an allowance for the human factor as well as a factor of safety. The graphs presented here represent the, specific dimension Which gives the recommended maximum stress."
"The common underlying theory of generally used systems of protection involving comparison of two vector quantities is derived by coaxial (bipolar) circles in the complex plane, where amplitude or phase comparison can be used interchangeably to produce any desired circle or straight line characteristic. Practical departure from ideal comparison, resulting from relay power consumption, is considered, and the relationship between this analysis and two currently used methods of distance relaying is pointed out. The basic circuit of a commonly used pilot wire scheme is analyzed and its characteristic considered, and the effect of long pilots with distributed constants is indicated."
"Reliability measures how well a system can be expected to perform its intended purpose; it is expressed as a probability function with time and environment as variables. This paper discusses the mechanics of component failure and repair and shows that power system behavior follows a Markov process. The reliability of simple system configurations is evaluated analytically by solving the Markov equations. The reliability of complex systems is more easily evaluated by the use of digital computer simulation. The simulation method is described."
"The main objective of the Swedish 400-kv system is to transmit a large amount of energy from the hydropower resources in the north of the country to the consumers in the south. The average distance is 400 to 500 miles, whereas the distance between the extreme points is 850 miles. Today 3,800 mw is transmitted. The main problems are stability and insulation co-ordination. Bundled conductors and series capacitors in the power lines and low reactances in alternators and transformers are used to improve stability conditions. The insulation strength can be gradually decreased with the growth of the system because of the lowered internal overvoltages. Transmission capacity of individual power lines and unit sizes of transformers are increased. Service reliability is excellent."
"This paper describes construction aspects of the northern 228 miles of Ontario Hydro's new 437-mile 500-kv EHV (extra-high-voltage) bundle conductor transmission line. Because of rigid specifications and new design features, new construction practices had to be developed in many areas, particularly foundation construction, tower erection, and the tension stringing of a 4-conductor bundle."
"An account is given of a method for determining the performance characteristics of one terminal of a d-c transmission system taking into account the supply system, the filter bank, and, in the most general case, the synchronous-compensators whose reactive power output is made dependent on the converter-transformer line voltage. The method forms the basis of a digital computer program whose logical structure is described. Examples are given of the application of the program to the case where the receiving a-c system is weak in relation to the power transmitted by the d-c link. Results are presented in graphical form to show the voltage regulation and the reactivepower conditions."
"The source and nature of corona discharges on EHV (extra-high-voltage) lines, and the effect on RI (radio interference) meters, is reviewed. A relationship between conductor diameter and operating gradient is given. Propagation experiments and mode analyses of radio noise, using artificial sources at the Coldwater test line, are described. Results of long-time RI recordings at the 500-kv test line, and close to a 230-kv circuit, are compared."
"A detailed study has been made of the Virginia Electric and Power Copmany (VEPCO) 500-kv transmission sytem to determine optimum insulation levels for the substation equipment. Results of this study depend on both economic and technical considerations. For the VEPCO system, a 70% arrester can be used at the generator step-up transformer locations, and a 75% will be required at step-down substations. Adequate impulse and switching surge margins permit a transformer BIL (basic impulse insulation level) of 1,300 kv to be used at all locations. The most practical circuit breaker BIL, consistent with good engineering practice and economy of application, is 1,550 kv."
"Tests were conducted on the Pennsylvania Electric Company (Penelec) EHV (extra-high-voltage) experimental line using an I-T-E Circuit Breaker Company outdoor air break switch for switching an EHV line and transformer. Data have been accumulated concerning magnitude of switching surges when switching was done with a conventional disconnecting switch, with a gas blast (device, and with and without surge voltage suppressing resistors. The investigation was part of a comprehensive program intended to provide the best means of designing and applying EHV switches with proper insulation co-ordination."
"Using sequential hourly weather data available on punched cards from the United States Weather Bureau, digital weather models of the future climate in the vicinity of a proposed transmission line can be constructed. These models permit statistical forecasts of line performance. Application of the technique to line insulation strength is demonstrated. Performance can be predicted on an over-all basis, or can be studied at specific times of the day, or during fog periods or thunderstorms. Optimizing routines are presented that optimize or permit balancing of flashover characteristics, and forecast performance as a function of line investment."
"Results of tests and research are given covering EHV station post insulators from 1,300 BIL (basic insulation level) to 2,100 BIL, including flashover and withstand on 60 cycle wet and dry, impulse and switching surge, wet and dry tests. As of today there is no information such as this in the literature. Since several United States and Canadian systems are now in the midst of 500and 700-kv substation design, the information should be timely. Some data are inconclusive and will have to be verified or varied by additional testing. Other data are presented to show trends rather than final results."
"Arcing line-to-ground faults isolated by single-pole switching are maintained by capacitive coupling between the faulted and unfaulted phases. Such faults are difficult to extinguish on long EHV (extra-high-voltage) lines because the fault A promising remedy consists of neutralizing the capacitive coupling by shunt reactors, which are required anyhow on many lines for compensating the normal charging current."
"The unbalance caused by connecting a generating station to a large load center by an untransposed series-compensated 500,000-volt bundled-conductor transmission line is analyzed digitally. Calculations are made by representing each conductor individually. Currents and voltages on the line and at apparatus terminals under both normal and faulted conditions are computed. Power angle curves of each phase are plotted. Various methods of decreasing the unbalance are presented."
"This paper describes a digital computer program that is one of a set to be used in planning the most economic pattern of electric power generator purchases for a 20-to 30-year period. The purpose of this particular program is to determine in which future years new generating capability will be required. Alternatively, if the years of unit installation are to be specified, then the program will calculate the generator sizes that must be committed to meet prescribed reliability criteria."
"Engineers responsible for the planning and development of new power resources are faced with the problem of integrating these new resources into a system of ever increasing complexity. The varied characteristics of existing and projected resources make more difficult the formidable task of systematically projecting their use to serve area load requirements. This paper presents a tool which is useful in analysis of load-resource relationships in a large, complex, interconnected system."
"The principal features of a co-operative planning study by the Arizona Public Service Company and the General Electric Company are described. Objective of the joint study is to determine optimum design of distribution and subtransmission systems to serve a large load area. To accomplish this objective a series of four digital computer programs have been developed. These programs generate the costs and characteristics of systems designed to serve a specified area for fixed load conditions."
"Computational procedures are developed for determination of transient voltages and currents in systems with salient-pole machines and capacitive loads subjected to unbalanced faults. An example calculation is presented. Sample results of additional computations are included. Comparison with independently obtained results check the procedure."
"Detailed studies of multiconductored circuits with distributed constants involving untransposed lines, unbalanced loads, and simultaneous faults require special circuit representation. A general method for deriving circuits to meet these requirements is presented. The circuits can be used on a voltampere-ohm basis or converted to per-unit circuit or sequence network quantities. The method has been used to obtain a numerical solution to power system unbalances caused by untransposed EHV (extra-high-voltage) lines."
"Greater reliance is being placed upon probability methods in the determination of generating capacity requirements. Regardless of the application method, the basic need is an adequate record of operational performance as a guide to proper outage rates and durations. Herein is described a method for collection, validation, and analysis of outage data to meet the requirements of a wide range of methods. Through computer application, accurate up-to-date data are provided to assist in solving the problems relating to system design and expansion."
"The mesh-impedance matrix Z0 and, in dual correspondence, the cut-set admittance matrix Yø, are usually generated by the product Cɩ ZC or HYHt, respectively, so that two matrix multiplications must be carried out in each case. By use of certain topological relationships and of the fact that the transforming matrices are incidence matrices where only +1, -1, or 0 can appear as elements, a set-theoretical rule can be stated for the generation of these matrices. The rule increases by a factor of 7 to 8 the speed with which such matrices can be produced on a digital computer. By virtue of the existence of the mesh-mesh and cut-set-cut-set incidence matrices-a condition which will be proved-the mesh-impedance matrices Z0 and cut-set admittance matrices Y0 can also be generated algebraically. (An extension of the method described here was developed by the author under the title, ``Arithmetik verdichtet gespeicherter Inzidenzvektoren, welche die Topologie von Netzen darstellen,'' and was published in Berlin, Germany, by Zeitschrift fur Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik, vol. 43, Dec. 1963, pp. T9-T12.)"
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The impulse breakdown of oil-impregnated paper alone, paper in combination with polyethylene, and polyethylene alone were investigated. Tape thickness and oil-gap or butt-space size were the sample variables, with the total insulation thickness remaining constant. Results substantiated that the impulse breakdown of paper varied inversely with the tape thickness. The impulse breakdown of polyethylene was independent of tape thickness. The presence of oil in the butt spaces of both materials was of no consequence."
"The breakdown voltages of five Freon gases and SF6 were determined at low pressures between parallel plates with a view to determining their insulating properties under these conditions and especially to find their minimum breakdown voltages. It was found that the advantage of these gases over air are much less at low pressures than at atmospheric pressure or higher, and hence, that the use of these gases as insulants at lower pressures is limited."
"Results of tests with impulse voltages and long tail surges are described for large gap spaces and long insulator strings. For these tests, the 10,000-kv 750-kilojoule outdoor surge generator installed in Shiobara Laboratory was used."
"Heavy corona losses have been observed during snowstorms, particularly in Canada. The amount of these losses sometimes exceeds those during rainstorms. A tentative explanation is given based on the consideration of the ``effective dielectric constant'' during precipitation. Calculations and model measurements indicate a tremendous difference between rain and snow. The surface potential gradient during heavy snowstorms may be increased by as much as 10 to 20%."
"After a brief survey of water appearance in the close-to-ground layer of atmosphere, behavior of water drops in the electric field is analyzed and the mechanism of streamer formations shown. Water influence, causing corona increase, has two components: (1) discharges between conductor and passing drops and (2) streamers produced by water presence on the conductor. Results of some attempts to limit streamer formation when water is present on the conductor are reported."
"A total of 721 observations has been made at eight locations throughout the United States to determine the resistivity and rate of fall of natural rain. The results indicate that approximately a third of the samples show resistivities lower than the standard 7,000 ohms-inch used in laboratory tests. Minimum value recorded was 100 ohms-inch and the maximum value 166,000 ohms-inch. The maximum rainfall rate recorded was 0.076 inch per minute, which is actually less than half of the standard laboratory rate of 0.20 inch per minute."
"This paper describes some basic characteristics of corona discharges and radio noise meters and establishes a general approach for radio noise analysis on high-voltage lines. The validity of this approach is demonstrated by tests. Tests are also used to evaluate and to calibrate the radio noise meters in terms of signal-to-noise ratios and the quality of radio reception."
"This paper presents a theoretical method for determining radio noise levels near high-voltage lines. The method is based on corona discharge and measuring instrument characteristics which determine the readings of radio-noise meters. The derived expressions can be checked by field and laboratory tests using conventional radio-noise meters."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A Fourier analysis of the output voltage waveshapes of low-frequency sources shows that, depending upon the order, a harmonic component of the voltage may contribute either positive, negative, or no torque. Using the concept of rotor-time-constant expressions for total developed torque, stator current and copper losses are derived for a voltage wave composed of harmonics of various magnitudes and orders. The stator current is affected if the motor neutral is connected to the supply neutral."
"Radial flux density and axial and tangential currents in sleeve rotors of polyphase induction motors are analyzed from Maxwell's equations. For particular solutions of field equations, transformer equivalents with constant inductance elements are introduced. Motor characteristics are described by an equivalent circuit of up to four transformers in series. A novel type of leakage inductance is introduced. Analysis of motor characteristics from design specifications is simple."
"The characteristic problem in analysis of drag cup rotor motors by field theory is that field equations appear with different coefficients and co-ordinates in sleeve and web sections. By solving for both sections separately and synthesizing the complete field pattern, an equivalent circuit is derived in a manner similar to that for sleeve motors. Hence, performance characteristics can be computed readily. Examples of such calculations are given for both sleeve and drag cup rotor motors in Appendixes I through III, and test results are presented."
"This paper demonstrates that it is now possible to get good correlation between predicted and measured performance of a-c servomotors during transients in nonlinear systems. The use of a large-scale digital computer as an analog device eliminates difficulties previously associated with analog computer inaccuracies. Calculated and measured curves are presented to show the behavior of the servomotor under a variety of operating conditions involving nonsinusoidal excitation through nonlinear discontinuous source impedances."
"This bibliography covering the years 1948 through 1961 has been prepared by the Bibliography and Publicity Subcommittee of the Rotating Machinery Committee. This report along with AlEE Publication 8-32 \"Bibliography of Rotating Electric Machinery, 1886-1947\" will give the industry a complete and up-to-date reference to rotating machinery literature. The format and the subject headings used in this report are the same as in Publication 8-32 with the exception that a section on \"Electric Couplings\" and a section on \"General Interest and Teaching of Rotating Machinery\" have been added."
"Reliable equations of performance for the single-phase induction motor are obtained in terms of the angles between the stator and rotor mmf (magnetomotive force) waves. This results in a new method of approach and yields a new form of impedance locus. The expressions for slip, current, and torque in terms of these angles are derived and the results obtained by this method are compared with the test results and with those obtained from the equivalent circuit."
"A direct measurement of shaft angular acceleration may be made with a conventional drag cup tachometer operated as an accelerometer. In this operating mode the tachometer is supplied with direct current and provides a direct voltage proportional to acceleration. This paper presents the theory of operation, experimental accelerometer characteristics of a commercial tachometer, and a number of interesting applications of this novel device."
"Part I of this paper presented an analysis of an idealized polyphase hysteresis machine having a radial-flux type of rotor. In this Part II, a hysteresis machine with a circumferential-flux type of rotor is analyzed. Using a rectangular loop approximation to the B-H characteristic of the hysteresis material, the flux density distribution in the machine is found and an equivalent circuit is developed. An improved model of the B-H loop is then used, and two approximate analyses are developed for this improved representation of the machine."
"Stator and rotor end windings are considered to be closed systems of currents, as the end coils are assumed to close through the air gap by means of fictitious filaments. The leakage reactance end component then is calculated on the basis of the net flux linking the stator end winding when both stator and rotor are excited with currents in such a way that the net flux density in the air gap is zero. All iron boundaries of the end-zone region are considered to be perfect magnetic receptors which contain no eddy currents."
"The general subject of distribution transformer load management has been covered by papers in the past. However, several significant advancements are being utilized by the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company which should be of interest to the power industry. These include the following: (1) transformer and secondary loads are determined from individual customer usage, considering monthly usage for an entire year, and not just for one specific month; (2) transformer capability is determined for both thermal and voltage limitations; and (3) secondary voltage drop is calculated for each distribution. In addition, multiple correlation techniques have been used to determine the relationship between kilowatt-hours and kilowatt demand. As a result of this statistical analysis, three formulas have been derived, one for residential use, one for commercial use, and one for mixed use. This new approach adds accuracy, while still keeping the formulas simple."
"For the above-named work by P. Gazzana Priaroggia, E. Occhini, and N. Palmieri, published in IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems for February 1964, pages 137-52, the authors wish to point out the following errors occurring in the published version of their paper. Page 143, column 1, item 11: the fifth line should read, \"the presence of binders....\" Additional corrections are noted for page 145, equation 4; page 146, equation 13; page 146, equation immediately preceding equation 14; page 146, equation 15; page 146, equation 15; and page 149, column 2, where the second line of the third full paragraph should read, \"shape of the loss component....\""
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Component analysis is widely used in the solution of power frequency problems and is also adaptable to radio-frequency (r-f) problems on multiconductor overhead lines. The appropriate component sets (modes) for radio frequency are a function of the line geometry. Matrix methods can utilize these components in the solution of r-f propagation problems involving complex systems and including effects of transposition, ground wires, intermediate faults, and general impedance terminations."
"The Philadelphia Electric Company has developed an expansion joint which provides flexibility, simplification, and savings when installing pipe-type cable lines on bridges and aerial structures. Pipe installed on a bridge or on an aerial structure requires compensation for expansion and contraction resulting from temperature changes. The temperature range which the pipe will experience is determined by ambient conditions and operating losses of the line."
"Formulas are developed for natural-mode parameters of a horizontal 3-phase transmission line. A method involving elementary algebra is described and paralleled by corresponding equivalents of matrix eigenvalue analysis. A numerical example is presented of calculating high-frequency natural-mode impedances and current or voltage components of an EHV (extra-high-voltage) line. The application of natural-mode analysis to the solution of some plc (power line carrier) problems is also illustrated."
"A method of analyzing the performance of a power line carrier link on long horizontal power lines is suggested. Natural modes of propagation are applied to the phase currents and voltages of plc (power line carrier) signals between two line discontinuities. Transmitter and receiver coupling connections, and effects of faults and transpositions are discussed. Equations leading to solutions of some plc problems are developed."
"This paper shows how probability arithmetic can be applied to the historic failure rates of components to calculate the expected outage frequencies and durations at any point in an electric system. Calculations reveal the portions of time that a number of items will be subjected to simultaneous occurrences. In turn, these can be related to simultaneous conditions that must prevail for power to flow in series and parallel combinations of system components. These principles are demonstrated by samples that employ equipment outage rates developed for the author's company. It is possible actually to verify the method by comparing the calculations with actual experience."
"This paper describes a rigorous method and a digital computer program for the direct calculation of loss-formula coefficients for systems containing off-nominal autotransformers. These techniques have reduced the required computer running time significantly, in comparison with that required for previous programs."
"An expression for an accurate loss model has been derived for general systems containing off-nominal or complex off-nominal autotransformers and impedances to ground. This was achieved by carrying the open-path-closed-path relations derived in earlier papers in this series through the necessary reference frames. The loss model derived in this manner can be implemented in modern dispatching computers."
"A method for determining the effective values of reactive sources connected to electric power systems is presented. The effective values of such sources refer to their actual contributions to the reactive needs of a system, as contrasted with their nominal or nameplate volt-ampere values. The reactive sources may be generators, interconnections, high-voltage lines, synchronous condensers, or static capacitors. The effective value of any reactive source, such as a capacitor bank, depends not only upon its size and design which determine its nameplate value, but also upon its actual operating voltage, its availability when needed, the tolerances used in its manfuacture, and its location on the system."
"A digital computer program has been developed to perform load flow studies on large interconnected systems up to 1,000 buses. This program contains the features of existing smaller capacity programs and has utilized computer chaining techniques to give it increased capacity without sacrificing program speed."
"This paper presents some basic concepts of the physical significance of various aspects of probability methods as applied to power system generating capacity problems. It also discusses the physical meaning and interrelation of various standards of service reliability, and the determination of the installed capacity benefits of an interconnection by means of the application of probability methods."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation conducted over several years on the effect of various gases on cable insulation. Based on highly accelerated load cycle testing, it is concluded that certain odorant gases and halogenated gases can be used with little risk of cable degradation. Data are also presented which show that the substitution of high dielectric strength gas for nitrogen in gas pressure cable will permit operation at normal pressure with higher factor of safety or ionization-free operation at lower pressures. Included in the Appendix is a summary of leak detection methods, their application and effectiveness."
"The positive or negative phase sequence impedance of a pipe-type cable may be calculated by conventional formulas, suitably modified to include the effect of magnetic properties of the pipe. Calculation of the zero phase sequence impedance, however, is considerably more complicated, involving not only the permeability of the steel pipe, which depends upon the zero phase sequence current, but also the resistance of the shield skid wire assemblies. Formulas and curves are presented by which the zero phase sequence impedance may be determined for any particular case."
"This paper discusses two methods for controlling line-charging kilovars (kvar) and voltages on a lightly loaded 345-kv system. One method utilizes shunt reactors, while the other takes advantage of underexcited capabilities of modern turbine generators utilizing appropriate control. The conclusion, supported by experience, favors the underexcited operation in this situation."
"This second supplement is a follow-up of a bibliography on the surge performance of transformers and rotating machines and a first supplement published in 1958 and 1962, respectively. It presents 77 additional references from 1903 through 1963. The activity in this field does appear to be decreasing."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Certain properties of transformer windings in their response to lightning surges are investigated by a systematic study of the initial surge distribution, that is, by excluding the time effect. The investigation is further confined to stresses between layers or pancakes and between turns of concentric windings and to the voltage distribution between such windings and grounded parts. Insulation grading is considered. The influence of static shields at the line ends is given special consideration based on a new analysis of the series capacitance. By comparing the calculations with measurements of the electric field distribution on resistance paper, some limitations in replacing the actual field problem by circuit problems are uncovered and suitable approximations are developed for obtaining a practical solution."
"Transformer loss of life calculations are made based on a normal transformer life expectancy of 30 years at a continuously sustained hot-spot temperature of 120 C (degrees centigrade). Computer-derived equations are applied to a generalized hypothetical 65 C rise distribution transformer. Hot-spot temperature curves, including the heating and cooling portions of the curve, are calculated for loads from 90% to 280% in ambient temperatures from 0 C to 50 C. The change in transformer time constant with changing loads is considered. The hot-spot temperature curves are converted to aging factor curves. The area under the aging factor curve is compared with a standard area representing a hot-spot temperature of 120 C continuously sustained for 24 hours. A transformer load capability table is presented."
"This paper describes the test methods used to monitor 26 power transformers rated 100,000 kva (kilovoltamperes) for combustible gas in the nitrogen, and the investigation of an incipient fault that was detected by these methods. Screen tests are performed with a combustible gas indicating meter, and gas analysis is done by mass spectrometry."
"The transient stability of an isolated radial power system is investigated, by the help of an available digital computer program. The load is kept constant but its division is varied among the three load components, namely, synchronous motors, induction motors, and static load. Performance diagrams of the rotating units are shown for both stable and unstable system operations and a stability limit curve is presented in a triangular co-ordinate system correlating the load components. Finally, the results are analyzed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Rapidly developing interest in the subject of high-frequency waveguides has yielded a diversity of guides - some having a periodic structure, others wholly or partly filled with dielectrics, ferrites, semiconductors or gaseous plasmas."
"The paper with the above title is published this month in the Proceedings. Separate copies of individual papers are available when they have been published in the Proceedings, price 2s."
"The paper with the above title was published in the September 1964 Proceedings. Separate copies of individual papers are available when they have been published in the Proceedings, price 2s."
"Pulse-code modulation was invented over a quarter of a century ago. It is only now coming into use, its practical application having had to await the development of semiconductor devices. The inventor of p.c.m., Mr. Reeves here gives his views on p.c.m. in an interview with Electronics and Power."
"The paper with the full title 'Resistive earthing of electrical distribution systems in ships and similar installations' is published this month in the Proceedings. Separate copies are available, free of charge if called for at Savoy Place before the meeting, or 2s. by post."
"Giving greater control and economy, electrostatic spraying is gaining ground over conventional methods of spraying both in the product-finishing industries and in agriculture."
"The application of radar techniques to meteorology provides information that is otherwise unobtainable. Among recent developments in this field is the use of pulse-Doppler radar to indicate both the range of precipitation particles and their movement towards or away from the transmitter."
"The paper with the full title 'Introduction of general theory of electrical machines into university courses' was published in the July 1964 Proceedings. Separate copies are available, free of charge if called for at Savoy Place before the meeting, or 2s. by post."
"The paper with the full title 'Application of electronic sector-scanning techniques to height-finding radar systems' was published in the November 1963 Proceedings. Separate copies are available, free of charge if called for at Savoy Place before the meeting, or 2s. by post."
"The paper with the full title 'Voltage and impedance conditions for the rapid plugging of induction motors including Saturistor control' is published this month in the Proceedings. Separate copies of individual papers are available when they have been published in the Proceedings, price 2s."
"If British industry is to remain competitive with only limited funds available for research, it is essential that research be planned to yield the highest return. This involves Government planning, co-operation within industry and attracting people with the right sort of flair into research work. The article is a shortened version of Mr. O.W. Humphreys's Presidential Address to the Institution, given on the 8th October 1964."
"The COMPAC cable, 9400 statute miles long, was officially opened by the recorded voice of HM The Queen on the 2nd December 1963. The cable forms the second leg in a 'round-the-world' cable system, the next section of which (SEACOM) should be completed early in 1966."
"The paper with the above title was published in the August 1964 Proceedings. It will be read at a meeting of the Science and General Division on the 1st December 1964 at Savoy Place. Separate copies of individual papers are available, free of charge if called for at Savoy Place before the meeting, or 2s. by post."
"Valuable work is being done by British engineers in the developing countries, and more of them are needed, but the conditions inherent in this work do not attract applicants, and much must be done to solve the problems of overseas service."
"The paper with the above title is published in this month in the Proceedings. It will be read at a meeting of the Power Division on the 17th November at Savoy Place. Separate copies of individual papers are available, free of charge if called for at Savoy Place before the meeting, or 2s. by post."
"The demand for circuit breakers of very high rupturing capacity has led to designs which, if tested directly, would require powers greatly in excess of those at present available at proving stations."
"The paper with the above title was published in the October 1964 Proceedings. It will be read at a meeting of the Power Division on the 2nd December 1964 at Savoy Place in conjunction with two other papers. Separate copies are available, free of charge if called for at Savoy Place before the meeting, or 2s. by post."
"The author describes the life and work of the man who, 75 years ago, invented and built the first high-voltage a.c. power-generating and distribution system - the precursor of the modern Grid system."
"Materials which, because of their hardness, are difficult to shape by conventional methods, can be machined with relative ease by electrochemical methods."
"The use of market research is widespread and growing rapidly. The author describes how the electricity supply industry is using these new techniques, and gives examples of their application."
"With the increasing volume of air traffic, radar aids to air-traffic control are becoming essential, not only in the vicinity of airports but in any fairly congested area. For secondary surveillance radar (s.s.r.) it is necessary to have similar airborne equipments in aircraft of all the nationalities requiring service from the system. A standard specification for s.s.r. has been agreed on by the International Civil Aviation Organisation."
"Advances in the performance of internal-combustion engines call for improved electrical equipment. The author describes recent developments in starters, generators and ignition systems."
"The paper with the above title is published this month in the Proceedings. Separate copies of individual papers are available when they have been published in the Proceedings, price 2s."
"The paper with the full title 'Generation of waveforms at very low frequencies using the sampling technique' is published this month in the Proceedings. Separate copies of individual papers are available when they have been published in the Proceedings, price 2s."
"The paper with the above title was published in the November 1964 Proceedings. Separate copies of individual papers are available when they have been published in the Proceedings, price 2s."
"The Electronics Divisional Board have set up an ad hoc committee to study the basic processes and organisational procedures used in electronics design and to establish where gaps exist in the information required by the electronics designer. In this article, the committee's chairman gives the background to its work. A conference on the subject is to be held at the Institution on 8th-9th February 1965."
"An article based on three papers that will be read at a meeting of the Power Division on the 16th December 1964 at Savoy Place. Separate copies are available, free of charge if called for at Savoy Place before the meeting, or 2s. by post."
"Pulse-code modulation is attractive on account of the inherent stability, of its transmission characteristics, its resistance to the effects of crosstalk and noise, and the comparative ease with which high-speed data facilities can be provided. The author outlines the principles of the system and describes a practical installation now working in the United States."
"The need for automatic character recognition arises wherever a high-speed automatic system is required to replace human operators engaged in using visual character information to make digital selections, as in cheque and letter sorting, tally-roll accounting and copy typing."
"The design of practical experiments in technical education has long been a problem for countless lecturers. How can a practical course cover all aspects of the subject and yet still be of the kind that encourages original thought on the part of the student? Mr. May, who is a Senior Lecturer in the Electrical Engineering Department, Hendon College of Technology, suggests a possible line of approach."
"For most of their life, satellite instruments enjoy a condition of weightlessness; they must work in an extremely high vacuum, and may be subject to high levels of radiation. These conditions in space, the vibration of the launching etc. create special problems in the design of reliable satellite instrumentation."
"Most existing digital computers use the binary system of counting. However, a computer having a given number-handling capacity can be shown theoretically to require less equipment if its counting system is based on a radix of 3, i.e. on the ternary system. One of the problems involved, which the author considers, is that of obtaining circuits having three stable states."
"The British Government, British industry and a British university have joined the Government of India to establish a new college of engineering and technology in Delhi. The author, who has been concerned with the scheme since its inception, describes the financial and staffing resources available and the reception given to this exercise in technological collaboration."
"The continuing possibility of interruptions in the mains supply of electricity, particularly during very cold weather, emphasises the need for standby supplies for hospitals, mines, centres of communication and other services. The numerous methods of emergency generation and their applications are reviewed in this article."
"The purpose of vector diagrams is to provide a simple visual representation of situations involving complex quantities. The author argues that the present system of vector representation confuses rather than clarifies, and proposes a new method, devoid of arrows, that is claimed to be simpler and less ambiguous."
"Our two cultures have come under review from most areas of opinion, and many educationists now believe that we ought to develop a broad-based training for graduates, to produce scientists aware of the humanities and philosophers who know why computers are used."
"With the application of superconducting magnets to magnetoplasmadynamic power generation and numerous fields of research, improvements in their stability and flux density are continually being sought."
"Off-peak thermal-storage heating has only recently made a public appearance as an efficient method of spreading peak load and providing cheaper heating, but the principle is not new and the practice requires further refinement. Miss Griffith describes some of the theories and trends involved."
"In the course of the past few years, the author has evolved a new electric- field discharge theory of the universe. It seeks to provide a unified explana- tion for many controversial phenomena, ranging from the electric arc to extragalactic nebulae."
"In the last decade of the 19th Century, many scientists in various countries were engaged in research on electromagnetic waves. Who was the first to appreciate their importance for practical communication? The author compares the claims of two pioneers, GugUelmo Marconi and Aleksandr Stefanovich Popov."
"Music has not escaped the impact of electronics. Some of the many methods associated with the generation of electrical waveforms to synthesise tonal and atonal sounds are discussed. These range from simple devices controlled by playing keys to coding and computing systems."
"The authors describe a method for calculating the vertical-radiation pattern of an h.f. curtain array erected on a flat hill or plateau. The type of aerial considered is that used for virtually all the BBC overseas services."
"The use of battery-operated electric vehicles in urban areas may offer a solution to the growing menace of fumes and noise from large concentrations of traffic. The author considers past and present examples of such vehicles and modern development in motor control."
"Because of the shortage of professional engineers in Malaysia, the young engineer has to shoulder heavier responsibilities than his counterpart in more highly industrialised countries, and the engineering courses of the University of Malaya are geared to this need."
"The author gives the historic and theoretical background to the development of m.h.d. power generation and surveys promising recent applications such as topping devices and space-vehicle power systems."
"Most existing types of reluctance machine, although cheap and reliable, have poor outputs and power factors. The authors have developed a new form of reluctance machine which has a much improved performance."
"Thin nickel-iron magnetic films, which may be used as storage and logic elements in computers, combine the economic advantage of cheap mass production with the technical advantage of a nanosecond switching time."
"Analysis of the behaviour of induction motors in transient conditions is necessary owing to the possibility of utilising induction motors in position-control servomechanisms. The analytical results are compared with results from an induction motor and an analogue simulator."
"The social pattern and economy of an underdeveloped area endowed with appropriate geographic and climatic conditions could be transformed by the harnessing of solar energy. The method of harnessing solar energy described in this article employs a mass of salt water as an efficient collector."
"The author proposes a simple method of proportional demand metering that uses two meters: a conventional watt-hour meter and a basically similar instrument that measures the product of current squared and time."
"In diagnosing disease, a doctor is limited by his own knowledge and experience. A computer, able to store the knowledge of hundreds of doctors, has no such limitations and can give information on all diseases giving rise to a particular set of symptoms."
"The correct understanding of the physical origin of stray losses is essential if machines are to be designed with minimum additional losses."
"Rapid technological advances present a challenge to our traditional pattern of employment and industrial relations. To meet this challenge, a much closer co-operation between industry, the Ministry of Labour and the universities is needed."
"Prompted by current technological interest in low-temperature phenomena, the author has undertaken a theoretical study of a well known principle and extended its scope by considering its use with unusual materials at low temperatures."
"Backward diodes compare favourably with other devices as microwave detectors. Tests have been carried out on various materials that can be used in tunnel diodes. The results of these tests are discussed and the sensitivities obtained in these tests compared with those obtainable with other microwave detectors."
"The author considers the effect of seed impurities on high-pressure gas discharges, which give rise to current densities in excess of those derived from the classical data. The work has an important bearing on magnetohydrodynamic power generation."
"Advances in semiconductor devices have improved the speed of logic and control circuits to such an extent that the speed of a computer is now limited by that of its store."
"Report on an international symposium held in Paris, 6-11th July 1964."
"The idea of using linear motors for railway traction is not new, a patent having been filed nearly 60 years ago. However, the limitations imposed by centrifugal forces in conventional electric motors when rotating at high speed have led to a reconsideration of linear motors for traction, as they offer the advantage of having no moving parts and their efficiency increases with speed."
"A system is described for controlling automatic trains by coded current pulses, transmitted through the running rails and picked up inductively by coils on the train. Speeds and braking are continuously controlled, and means are provided to ensure safe spacing of trains, even in high-density traffic."
"International agreement on frequency allocations and other vital matters has now reached the stage where a worldwide communication-satellite system is a practical proposition. The author considers the design factors involved and discusses a system using 12 subsynchronous satellites."
"High-energy faults in the terminal boxes of electric motors constitute a considerable potential hazard to personnel. The author describes a series of tests that demonstrate the effectiveness of high-rupturing-capacity fuses in minimising such dangers."
"Existing road congestion in town and city centres and the expected rapid increase in road traffic make it imperative to optimise available road space by careful co-ordination of traffic movements. The author describes both the analysis of traffic and the latest developments in its control."
"The author's aim is to demonstrate the usefulness of the magnetic scalar potential in solving magnetostatic field problems and to justify the unique relationship between current and potential."
"In order to apply electronic computers to high-speed railway traffic analysis, accurate data on positions and speeds are essential. Conventional methods of railway-traffic control and detection have limitations in these conditions. A more suitable method, described by the author, uses a form of radar in which the signals are confined to waveguides."
"The ability to amplify the very weak microwave signals used in satellite communication systems and radio astronomy is ultimately limited by naturally produced background noise. The author considers the causes and magnitude of this radiation."
"Proposals for new frequency-band allocations will come into force next year. These proposals have particular reference to communication satellites."
"With the advent of the BBC's 625-line programmes, the increasing importance of the Euro vision link, and the fact that the BBC's 405-line system is likely to be in use for a further ten years, an efficient electronic line-standards convertor is needed to replace existing optical methods. The author, who is with the BBC, describes such a device."
"In order to accommodate the maximum telephonic traffic on busy trunk routes and submarine cables, special methods of speech compression are used. These call for a detailed knowledge of the statistical properties of speech if the most economical results are to be obtained without undue deterioration of quality."
"Symposium on electricity and space heating held at Savoy Place, 3rd-4th March 1964."
"With the use of modern electronic devices, the heart beats or brain waves of a patient can be recorded during his normal daily activities, which is a great advantage in diagnosing disease. This is the last article written by the late Prof. R. Woolmer."
"A steelworks may have to supply a wide variety of steel qualities and products, in which case computer control of production planning is as important as automatic process control. The authors consider both these aspects of automation in relation to a scheme now nearing completion."
"Colour transmission of television programmes is now far advanced, but broadcasting authorities and manufacturers have still to agree on a universal standard. The Postmaster-General announced in Parliament on the 14th April that no decision would be taken on the system to be employed until after the meeting of European experts next April. If no decision on a common system is reached then, the United Kingdom will probably adopt the system of its choice so that a regular colour-television service can begin in 1967."
"Of the factors that affect Britain's economy, road transport is high on the list, and at no time was this more evident than in the 'freak' winter of 1963, when millions of poundsworth of goods were immobilised by snow and ice. Conventional methods of clearing roads proved inadequate, but road-heating schemes showed themselves to be valuable and are now being extended to other areas."
"The author describes the advantages of an integrated treatment of the application of electromagnetic theory, based on Maxwell's equations, to electrical machines."
"At very low temperatures, the electrical resistance of a metal may disappear completely, and the metal becomes a superconductor. A current set up in a superconducting ring may persist for many years. This article is based on the 55th Kelvin Lecture, which was given at an Ordinary Meeting at Savoy Place on the 30th April."
"Low-noise amplifiers to operate in the microwave band are increasingly in demand. The author describes a parametric amplifier in which the pumping action is supplied by a variable-reactance p-n junction."
"The use of the digital computer to control processes directly (known as on-line working) is rapidly being extended. It is likely to bring about a revolution in some industries by enabling higher outputs and better quality to be achieved."
"A new generation of faster and more compact computers is now on its way. The author considers the need for a better understanding of computational principles by future users and makes a plea for a more radical approach to their application."
"An electronic grid, comparable with the National Grid, is envisaged for the future. With this system, a telephone call could bring to the television screen in the home reproductions of pages from newspapers or periodicals."
"Modern British fisheries, facing difficult times with the depletion of fish stocks and exclusion from some favourite grounds, have turned increasingly to electrical and electronic apparatus and aids, and the part played by such equipment in the future is likely to be an important one."
"The autodyne, although constructionally identical to the synchronous convertor, is superior to both the synchronous convertor and the Ward-Leonard system as a machine for producing a direct voltage from an a.c. supply."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The major obstacles to attaining high probabilities of mission success in future space exploration are described to be as follows: dependence on large numbers of propulsive stages in a given vehicle development of relatively many more long-lived components and subsystems than has been possible to achieve to date heed to improve the development process so that a reletively much ower volume of ground and flight testing is needed than formerly to provide confidence in system reliability and fragmentation of responsibilities for flight tests and for technical direction of major programs. Moreover, it is suggested that several aspects of current approach to ``reliability'' might be doing more harm than good, It is then argued that Broader and more uninhibited discussion of difficulties to attainment of high probabilities of mission success is much needed, as well as more widespread, systematic, and intense search for posible failure modes at the system, subsystem, component, and part levels; 3) general persuasion that when reduction in funds occur, that the must largely go into stretching out schedules and not into reducing the volume of ground and flight testing; integrity of communication throughout the mtitiplicity of participating elements and the conviction that, reliability engineering is an inseparable integral aspect of systems engineering."
"Individually, we may be concerned about a smal portion of the reliability program, Such as probability of success, or economic considerations, or systems effectiveness, or one of the many other reliablility factors, when we should be looking at the whole picture. Reliability is not something that you buy by the piece or pound erdezem and just attach to the equipment, it is something that is inherent in the disian. This places a great responsibility on the design engineer. He must know the safety factor of each and every part, how they can fail, and how to compensate for all the variables. There is no part answer to ``how much reliability;'' it involves many trade-offs, and the final decision will be made as a result of these trade-offs. When figuring ``how much reliability,'' we must consider the routin engineering practices, then add how much it would cost using good reliability practices. Afte this is determined, one must assign a useful Iife span to the equipment, determine the cost of maintenance, the cost of owning the equipment, and the cost of idle equipment. From this informtion, good decisions can be made. There is no quick ans wer to ``how much reliability,'' but it can easly be evalupted and the determination, made."
"For several years, a very intensive program has existed within the connector industry to attempt to define and measure connector reliability. One of the stumbling blocks in the way of this necessary work has been the lack of actual field application data and the correlation of connector failures to such data. Over the eleven months stretching from January, 1962 through November, 1962, the Boeing Airplane Company received reports from major domestic and international carriers having to do with connector problems occurring in the 707 and the 720 Jet Aircraft. Amphenol's engineers, working with the Boeing Reliability people, have correlated report summaries to the extent that they have separated connector categories according to the specific environmental experiences which the connectors have undergone. This has resulted in the establishment of eight different environmental cycle applications, and the data is arranged so as to produce failure rates associated with each. Also, it is possible to compare various types of connectors as to their ability to withstand extreme environmental shocks reliably. The study involves some 173,707 and 720 Aircraft, which are approximately half the entire jet fleet. It involves 437,000 flight hours, 193,000 departures, and approximately 212,000 total connectors. Connector operating hours are in excess of 400,000,000. This paper is considered unique in that, to the best of the author's knowledge, no other such study has ever been attempted in respect to electrical connectors."
"A circuit design method for linear circuits is needed which will adequately predict circuit per formance as a function of component tolerances. This paper describes a method which weights the probable component variation from its nominal value into one of three groups; the group assignment depends on how seriously the component variation affects over-all performance This technique, identified as the quantized probability design (QPD) method, is compared with the absolute worst case (AWC), the Taylor worst case (TWC), and the uniform probability (UP) methods. The QPD procedure is given, based on the circuit performance equation. Two linear circuit applications are presented and analyzed whic show the effect each component will have on circuit performance. A comparison of design methods shows that the quantized probability design predicts less amplifier gain variation. Actual experience has shown that a closer correlation exists with the quantized probability design method, and therefore its use for linear circuits is recommended."
"The planned use of premium electronic parts in a forthcoming system is a logical means for assuring failure-free operation comensurate with the best state-of-the-art. However, an over-all analysis of the value of premium parts must show the net worth of improved system performance to more than offset the added initial parts cost. These costs may be in higher procurement costs, added test and evaluation, or more intangible investments. At the outset, a system-production strategy must establish the best level of investment in such features, based upon a conviction that the ``impact'' upon reliability improvement will justify the added initial costs. This paper treats the difficult problem of evaluating the system reliability ``impact'' introduced by increased parts reliability. The necessity for an early investment strategy will limit the level of analytical sophistication available for predicting reliability. Thus, it is useful to examine the validity of reliability ``parts population analyses'' as first-order justifications for investing in high reliability parts for complex electronic systems."
"A graphical presentation of semiconductor device failure rates is made in Figs. 13B and 14B of Mil-Hdbk-217 (see Figs. 1 and 2). From this presentation, Equations may be derived which indicate interesting properties, to failure physicists, device engineers, and equipment designers. On the basis of the equations it may be concluded that: (1) extrapolating room temperature failure rates from failure rates of devices stored at elevated temperatures is not likely to be meaningful; (2) there is a definite relationship between storage failure rate and failure rate in actual use (in the temperature range of interest); (3) the storage failure rate is large enough at normal storage temperatures so that, if semiconductor device failure rates influence the reliability of equipment in which they are used, they will contribute significantly to the finite storage life of the equipment (another way of expressing the last statement is that a manufacturer with a large storage inventory of semiconductors will find a significant decrease in the percentage of usable devices with time);(4) there are some instances (as delineated earlier by equations), when increasing the number of semiconductor devices and dividing the load proportionately improves reliability, and there are other cases when it does not. While the analysis makes no claim as to the validity or accuracy of Figs. 1 and 2, the mathematics permits statements about conditions necessary to confirm the data."
"While some original work is presented, this paper is mainly of the nature of a survey of redundancy techniques to date. Several redundancy techniques are described in detail with mathematical models for estimating reliability improvement. The methods are compared on the basis of reliability improvement and general comments are made about applications. The reliability equations for Moore-Shannon, majority, gate connector, and other redundancies, show that Moore-Shannon type of redundancy provides the best reliability improvement An example of a Moore-Shannon redundant flip-flop shows that large reliability improvements are obtained applying redundancy to only the less reliable components, thus keeping the amount of redundancy to a minimum."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The distribution of time to failure for a system consisting of two dissimilar elements or subsystems operating redundantly and susceptible to repair is discussed. It is assumed that the times to failure for the two system elements are independent random variables from possibly different exponential distributions, and that the repair times peculiar to each element are independently distributed in an arbitrary fashion. For this basic model a derivation is given of the Laplace-Stieltjes transform of the distribution function of time to system failure, i.e, the time until both elements are simultaneously down for repair, measured from an instant at which both are operating. An explicit formula is given for the mean or expected time to system failure, a natural approximation to the latter is exhibited, and numerical comparisons indicate the quality of this approximation for various repair time distributions. In a second model the possibility of system failures due to overloading the remaining element after a single element failure is explicitly recognized. The assumptions made for the basic model are augmented by a stochastic process describing the random occurrence of overloads. Numerical examples are given. Finally, it is shown how the above models may be easily modified to account for delays in initiating repairs resulting from only occasional system surveillance, and to account for random catastrophic failures."
"This paper develops a procedure for determining a lower bound to the reliability of multiple-line redundant networks. The procedure is general in that there are no restrictions on the interconnection pattern between the functions of the network, and it allows, within limitations, different parts of the network to take on different orders of redundancy. The approximation to reliability is very good if the reliabilities of the circuits in the network are close to unity."
"Procedures for empirical parameter variation analysis are presented which should be useful in practical programs of design analysis and reliability improvement for electronic circuits. The objective of the technique is to estimate the effect that drifts in component-part parameters will have upon circuit performance. This estimate is obtained by application of formal statistical and/or worst-case analysis methods in conjunction with systematically made circuit ``breadboard'' measurements and data from component-part test programs. The mathematical basis for the technique is presented, along with a description of methods to simulate part-parameter drifts and other suggestions for conducting the required breadboard measurements."
"``On-board'' maintenance for offensive weapons systems and its relationship to the allocation of spare parts is discussed. A method for the selection of ``on-board'' spare parts is given and an expression for the increase in subsystem reliability through ``on-board'' repairs is derived. The concepts of effective reliability, combat effectiveness, and criticality of spare parts are examined. Curves obtained from a hypothetical but realistic maintenance situation show the given relationships between the criticality and the weight and volume of spare parts. These relationships provide a basis for decision on the allocation of spare parts for improving combat effectiveness through ``on-board'' maintenance."
"Malcolm A. McGregor, author of \"Approximation Formulas for Reliability with Repair,\" which appeared on pages 64-92 of the December, 1963, issue of these Transactions, has called a variety of problems to the attention of the Editor that are corrected herein."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"One of the fundamental problems in designing a real-time system is to determine the storage requirements of the data exchange used to connect the communication network and central processor. The difficult part of the problem is to find the amount of data exchange storage needed for input/output buffer storage. In this paper, an analytical method is developed."
"By system, we have in mind the meaning accorded by Webster, “a set of objects united by some form of regular interaction or interdependence.” Change in a system is regarded as change in the properties of the objects or in the relationships between the objects. That is, when one considers a physical system or conceives of a hypothetical system, one perceives certain distinct objects such as machines, customers, messages, etc. Each object is seen to possess certain properties of interest that may be used to define it, machine availability, credit status, or length of a message."
"Recent years have seen the development of several general purpose digital computer programs aimed at simplifying the task of carrying out simulation studies.1 Among these is a program called the General Purpose Systems Simulator (GPSS).2,3 Substantial experience accumulated in the use of this program has led to a number of suggested improvements and the present article describes a second version of the program, called the General Purpose Systems Simulator 11 (GPSS II)"
"This part illustrates an application of the simulator to the design of a system that automatically intercepts specific telephone calls. The various components of this system interact in such a complex manner that simulation was found to be more expedient than mathematical analysis."
"Digital simulation has already been proven effective for urban traffic studies.1ߝ4 However, considerable effort is required to program the computer for simulations of any complexity."
"As discussed elsewhere,1 simulation is useful in studying the control mechanism of a manufacturing enterprise. The simulation involves a model representing both the information and physical systems and permits examination of alternative decision algorithms."
"The production of a digital simulator program, or of any program for that matter, involves two steps: creating the model, then writing the program. Fundamentally, the writing of the program is a technical detail which must of necessity wait upon the creation of the model. Nevertheless, the nature of the machinery available for producing simulation programs is bound to exercise an influence on the nature of the model. This is true because effective modeling requires abstraction of the essence of the system under investigation, the direction taken in the abstraction being determined by the goals of the investigation. For complex systems it is very often not clear which of many possible abstractions is most valid for the purposes at hand."
"It is perhaps worthwhile emphasizing again the two points of view from which the system may be seen. On the one hand, it is a direct implementation of a high-level language machine in which the various logical suboperations are rather formalized. On the other hand, it is a character-handling machine, one of whose jobs is the interpretation of a high-level language."
"Following the decision to produce IBSYS/IBJOB for the 7090/94, it was decided to implement a similar system for the 7040/44. The transfer of a system of the size and complexity of IBSYS/IBJOB to another machine required a re-evaluation of all parts of the system and considerable new design work. Although generally the 7040/44 Operating System is externally compatible with the 7090/94 IBSYS/IBJOB system, there are significant differences in the internal structure. This paper describes the 7040/44 Operating System as well as the differences between this system and the 7090/94 IBSYS/IBJOB system."
"A lathe manufacturer planned to incorporate a gear change that would produce a range of metric pitches in addition to the normal range of English pitches. The problem had previously been resolved by using a special 127-tooth change gear to compound the drive to the feedbox. However, such a large gear was awkward to accommodate and involved a loss of production time whenever a change had to be made. It was therefore decided to incorporate four smaller gears in the feedbox, making it possible to use a simple lever change to give direct drive for English pitches or back-geared drive for metric pitches. The problem was to determine the combination of four gears that would give the over-all ratio most closely approximating the one desired."
"The purpose of a concordance is to show the places in a document or a class of documents where each principal word may be found. Typically, the immediate context of a word is exhibited, as well as its location. How the concordance is to be organized, and for what use, will vary from user to user and from occasion to occasion. Until recently, concordances were manually prepared, perhaps the most familiar being those of the Bible.1 Over the last decade, computers have been used to generate various types of concordances. Computer-generated concordances of the poetry of Matthew Arnold and, more recently, of W. B. Yeats have been described by Painter and Parrish.2,3 KWIC (Key Word in Context) indices4 have become routine."
"The design objectives laid down for SYSTEM/360 included requirements for large memory capacities, simple program relocation, flexible storage protection, and general supervisory facilities. Also required were a variety of data formats, an extensive set of processing operations, and machine-language compatibility among models of widely varying performance. This paper comments upon the addressing, sequencing, monitor control, and central processing solutions that were adopted to reconcile these requirements and to meet the needs of diverse computer applications."
"SYSTEM/360 is designed for multiprogramming as a basic mode of operation, and for multisystem operation as an increasingly important mode of operation."
"In the SYSTEM/36O logical structure, processing efficiency and versatility are served by multiple accumulators, binary addressing, bit-manipulation operations, automatic indexing, fixed and variable field lengths, decimal and hexadecimal radices, and floating-point as well as fixed-point arithmetic. The provisions for program interruption, storage protection, and flexible CPU states contribute to effective operation. Base-register addressing, the standard interface between channels and input/output control units, and the machine-language compatibility among models contribute to flexible configurations and to orderly system expansion."
"This paper presents a precise formal description of a complete computer system, the IBM SYSTEM/360 The description is functional: it describes the behavior of the machine as seen by the programmer, irrespective of any particular physical implemention, and expressly specifies the state of every register or facility accessible to the programmer for every moment of system operation at which this information is actually available."
"Control of I/O operations in a multiprogrammed system involves many complicated functions, such as allocation of facilities and protection against mutual interference among programs. In SYSTEM/360, most responsibilities associated with multiprogramming I/O operations, as well as all device dependent functions, are assigned to the programming system, and channel equipment is designed to operate in conjunction with a supervisory program. Channels permit overlapping of CPU and I/O activity and provide general functions more economically implemented in hardware than in software."
"A primary goal in the SYSTEM/360 design effort was a wide range of processing unit performances coupled with complete program compatibility. In keeping with this goal, the logical structure of the resultant system lends itself to a wide choice of components and techniques in the engineering of models for desired performance levels."
"As early as 1948, Shockley and Pearson1 showed that the conductivity of an evaporated germanium film could be modulated by means of an electric field applied normal to the surface. One surprising result of this work was that only about 10% of the charge induced by the field contributed to the conductivity. The reason for this discrepancy was explained by J. Bardeen as being due to the presence of surface states that immobilize the induced charge."
"Semipermanent changes in the semiconductor surface potential occur in insulator-covered semiconductors when external fields are applied for long times, particularly at elevated temperatures. An attempt to explain these changes in terms of the charging and discharging of interface states leads to conclusions that disagree with many of the experimental facts. Specifically, the semipermanent effects of interface-state charges can always be overcome by the application of a field smaller than that which is used to induce the effect, and of the same sign, while the experiments described in the accompanying papers generally show that a field much larger than the inducing field, and of the opposite sign, is required to return the insulator covered surface to its initial status. The accumulation of space charge in the insulating layer can give rise to very large fields at the semiconductor surface that persist after the removal of an external inducing field. The size and sign of such space-charge fields agree with the experimental observations. Measurements made after treatment at temperatures above 125°C show that the surface of silicon passivated with silicon dioxide can become strongly n-type as a result of such a positive space-charge layer formed at the interface. A model is presented based on the concept that this space charge arises from oxygen vacancies in the silicon dioxide. It is suggested that the improvement resulting from the use of phosphorus pentoxide on the outside surface is due to the elimination of vacancies by the oxidizing action of the phosphorus pentoxide."
"Measurements are reported on the stability of planar, npn silicon transistors with and without a phosphosilicate glass layer over the SiO2 passivation layer. The phosphosilicate layer forms during the emitter diffusion from a P2O5 source, and the data show that, to insure stability, it must not be removed in subsequent processing steps. The units tested were of conventional geometry except for a gate electrode over the base region, which provided additional information on the surface condition. The transistors were subjected to temperatures of 150° and 200°C with either gate-bias or junction reverse-bias. Production transistors, without gates, which had failed on life test were shown to have no phosphosilicate layer because it had been removed by excessive etching during fabrication. Additional evidence for the stabilization by P2O5 has been obtained using metal-oxide-silicon capacitors with and without P2O5 treatment of the SiO2 layer. Both dc conduction through the insulator and stability of the capacitance-voltage characteristic were measured. These experiments suggest that the transistor degradation with unstabilized SiO2 is caused by an accumulation of positive space-charge in the silicon-dioxide. This charge accumulates when an electric field (directed toward the silicon) is applied to the SiO2 at temperatures in the range of 150°C."
"New technologies for deposition of thin glass films on silicon substrates have generated interest in the resulting glass-silicon interface potentials and the interface stability under conditions of bias and temperature that might be experienced in device operation. Experiments are described which show accumulation of space-charge layers at glass-silicon interfaces under combined conditions of electric field applied normal to the surface, and elevated temperature. The glasses studied are lead-alumino-borosilicates and zinc-alumino-borosilicates and were applied in films several microns thick by sedimentation techniques. Measurements were made on metal-glass-silicon capacitor structures. The silicon at the interface may be shifted strongly n-type or strongly p-type, depending on applied field direction, during a heating cycle of a few minutes. Surface charge densities up to 1013 electronic charges/cm2 have been observed. The temperatures required for such shifts vary over the range 100° to 300°C, depending on glass composition. Conductivity through the films during the combined bias-temperature treatment is compared with interface charge build-up. The data suggest a mechanism in which the bias-temperature combination causes movement of ions (possibly sodium) with a resultant build-up of space charge in the glass near the interface. The long-term stability of this “locked-in” charge indicates that interface potential with the more stable glasses may be permanently tailored to a desired value by bias-temperature treatment."
"Electric fields have been applied to the surface over a planar silicon junction by means of a metallic control-ring electrode on the oxide surface. Capacitance measurements have indicated that a large, positive, immobile charge is present at or near the interface between the silicon dioxide and the silicon. An improvement in breakdown voltage occurs when the control ring is biased negatively, producing a field that opposes the field of the immobile charge. Positive control-ring voltages are shown to produce very large junction leakage currents. The leakage current is shown to be sensitive to a high-temperature reverse bias treatment and a model for this effect is suggested. Transistors with base contracts that extend over the oxide-protected collector junction are shown to have higher breakdown voltages than do those that lack the base electrode extension. This effect is consistent with the improvement in breakdown voltage found in control-ring diode measurements."
"A study has been made of the effect of chemical additives and of annealing and electrical biasing procedures upon the state of charge of silica films grown on silicon. A model, proposed to account for the observations, is based on the assumption that phosphorus, aluminum, and boron, when present, substitute for Si in SiO2. The resulting species may be represented as PO2+, PO2−, AlO2−, or BO2−. The mobile charge carrier in the silica under the conditions investigated here is assumed to be an oxide-ion vacancy. Under certain conditions electrolysis is accompanied by deviations from Faraday's laws and changes the net charge in the oxide; under other conditions only the charge distribution in the oxide is changed. The experiments leading to the development of the model, which were done with metal-oxide-silicon structures, have been supplemented with experiments with field effect transistors. Field effect transistors of the n-p-n type have been made to operate in the enhancement mode."
"The field effect surface-channel conductance and transconductance of both p-type and n-type Si inversion layers were measured as a function of external field. In the small signal region, the channel conductance was found to vary logarithmically with the transverse field. The results are interpreted in terms of reduction of carrier mobility that is due to surface scattering. A model which consists of a uniformly distributed charge layer and self-consistent field is proposed to explain the observed results. It was found that in most samples measured a combination of specular and diffuse scattering is involved. Examples of completely diffuse scattering as well as the diffuse and specular combination are given. The temperature dependence of the surface mobility between 77° and 300°K is presented."
"Studies on insulated-gate field effect devices fabricated on both n- and p-type Si have shown the existence of inversion layers on p-type surfaces and of accumulation layers on n-type surfaces. The degree of inversion or accumulation was characterized by measuring the total series capacity of the SiO2 gate and the underlying Si as a function of an applied dc potential. The initial surface conductivity, as measured by the source to drain conductance gsd at zero gate bias, indicates that most of the surface charge is immobile. Prolonged heat treatments at 350°C on p-type substrates have resulted in a two order-of-magnitude increase in gsd accompanied by little or no change in the total surface charge density Nt. On n-type substrates, however, the same treatment results in a factor of 5 decrease in Nt. The effects of these treatments on the surface uniformity as well as on appropriate device parameters are reported."
"The effect of processing variables on the surface conduction properties of passivated silicon junction devices has been studied. Insulated gate field-effect transistors fabricated in p-type silicon were used as an experimental tool. Varying the metal used as the gate electrode is shown to strongly influence the surface conductivity of the field-effect device. The effects of heat treatments in various ambients and variations in the insulators used are also discussed. Surface conduction is shown to be a complex function of materials, thermal history and processing."
"In the range of fields used, it seems well established that trapping does not play a major role in these n-p-n field effect devices. This range was extensive enough to indicate that there was no high density of states in the gap from 0.3 eV below the conduction band edge to 0.125 eV below the conduction band edge. Hence, in this range for samples so prepared, the transconductance may be used to study the mobility."
"The effect on the velocity of sound corresponding to the “Keyes effect,” for nonzero frequency and finite wavelength, is calculated by means of the electron Boltzmann equation. The result may be expressed as an effective electronic contribution to the elastic constant; the deviation, χdK0 of δK from the Keyes electronic contribution to the elastic constant, δK0, is examined as a function of frequency and other parameters. When the Fermi velocity v is much larger than the sound velocity s and the mean free path is of the same order or larger than the acoustic wavelength, we find that χ ≈ (s/v)2. When the mean free path is small compared to wavelength, χ = ω2/[ω2 + (ν + 1/τd)2], where ν is the intervalley scattering rate and τd is an average diffusion relaxation time."
"The paper presents a solution to the elasticity problem where the discontinuity is in the displacement component parallel to the plane area inside the transversely isotropic medium. The work previously performed on discontinuity problems is also discussed."
"The operation of transformer read-only stores is explained and the main methods of construction described. The optimum turns ratio of the transformers is calculated. It is shown how a transformer can produce an output current even though the energised word line is not threaded through it. The value of this zero current depends on the information pattern and is found to be greatest with one of two patterns, depending on the type of construction used. For both patterns, expressions for the maximum zero and minimum ONE output signals are derived. The cause of resonances is explained and a method of damping described. The expressions for optimum turns ratio, maximum zero and minimum one output signals are modified to take account of the damping and a worked example is given. Computed and observed output waveforms are compared for a store containing a non-worst-case pattern and are found to agree well."
"The composition of the gas phase is calculated for various temperatures, pressures, and chlorine-to-hydrogen ratios for the two-phase system consisting of solid silicon in equilibrium with the gas phase. It is shown that in the range of variables most frequently used for vapor growth of silicon, the principal species under equilibrium conditions are H2, HCl, SiHCl3, and SiCl2."
"An arbitrarily large network of bistable tunnel diode switching circuits is analyzed for stability. One condition derived indicates that increasing the total “fan” of each circuit might tend to make the whole network unstable. This condition is independent of the tunnel-diode characteristic. Another condition is also derived which depends on this characteristic but does not involve the total “fan”. Finally, two general theorems which were proved in another paper are stated and discussed in terms of their applicability to certain classes of large networks and the types of conditions for stability that can be obtained."
"The optical interaction of lasers attracts widespread interest for a number of reasons, a prominent one being the possibility that logic or memory systems using optically coupled elements may some day be realized. The quenching of one laser by the coherent light of another has been observed for GaAs injection lasers1 and for neodymium glass lasers.2 When the coherent output of one laser is passed through the active region of a second, the second laser is stimulated to emit in the same direction as the incident light. The power added to the amplified incident light is subtracted from the power in the normal lasing mode or modes of the second laser. We refer to this process as quenching and define a quenching ratio to be the power extracted from the quenched laser divided by the incident power, noting that for identical lasers the incident power will be equal to the power available for stimulated emission in the quenched laser. We will derive some simple expressions for the quenching ratio in certain ideal situations. Then we will compare these expressions with the results of some quenching experiments reported by one of the authors."
"Monte Carlo methods of statistical analysis are applied to the problems of transistor design and optimization. The experimental tolerances associated with any diffusion process are shown to represent an important factor in the initial design of diffused junction transistors. Many transistor parameters exhibit a substantial degree of sensitivity to small variations in the diffusion process. This is confirmed by a comparison between the theoretical and experimental open-base breakdown voltage, and current gain, for a large number of devices. It is therefore proposed that the design of a transistor be based upon attaining a specified set of electrical characteristics when the device is assumed to be fabricated by a non-ideal diffusion process. An electronic computer has been used in an investigation of the foregoing problem. The investigation shows further that a margin-of-safety must be designed into each electrical parameter of a transistor to assure that the resulting device satisfies a given set of design specifications, even though this margin-of-safety may differ for each parameter. In this paper examples are presented to illustrate the theoretical trade-off between several opposing transistor parameters that exhibit a substantial degree of variability due to a non-ideal diffusion process."
"The electrostatic problem of finding the surface capacitance of a plane semiconductor surface as a function of applied voltage is formulated and solved. The solution takes account of the space charge distribution in the semiconductor, of a surface dielectric layer, of the possible presence of surface states, and of the exact Fermi-Dirac statistics for the charge carriers. The macroscopic electrostatic problem and microscopic electronic description are kept separate, convenient reduced units are introduced, and the differential capacitance characteristic is expressed in a simple parametric form. For bands of normal form, and for a single-level acceptor or donor surface state, the reduced characteristic depends on eight reduced quantities for general statistics, and on six for the simpler Boltzmann limit; the latter include three quantities describing the surface state level, one for the dielectric layer, one bulk semiconductor parameter, and one contact potential constant which shifts the voltage scale. Explicit calculations are made for silicon at 293K for various doping levels, dielectric layers, and single-level surface states; the variation of the characteristic dip in the capacitance is exhibited as a function of these parameters."
"The performance of the Advanced Circuit Program (ACP) circuits described by D. H. Chung and J. A. Palmieri can be improved by replacing the coupling resistor with a pair of tunnel diodes. The low impedance and power gain properties of the tunnel diode increase the fan-power and provide better control of signal levels. In addition, the improved rise times increase circuit speeds to the extent that delays of less than 1 nsec per logic function have been demonstrated. Since the tunnel diode pair can be designed to perform and, or, or majority logic functions, the logic flexibility of these circuits is greater than that of the resistor-coupled circuits. The design techniques which lead to a consistent set of logic circuits and to binary full adders are discussed. The very fast rise times generated by the tunnel diode pair require the use of transmission lines as the interconnection medium. The techniques used to minimize the effects of noise and reflections on circuit performance are discussed."
"Algebraic methods that are useful in the reduction of EPR spectra to the magnetic parameters in the phenomenological Hamiltonian are summarized and programs presently available to accomplish the necessary computations are described. Among the topics discussed are (i) the calculation of the spectrum of the complete spin Hamiltonian for single-crystal experiments, with the principal axis system; (ii) the transformation of the Hamiltonian to the magnetic quantization axes, which is convenient for perturbation theory; (iii) the use of iteration methods to determine the parameters by a least-squares technique; (iv) the detailed fitting of EPR spectra of polycrystalline or glassy-state magnetic sites; (v) the correlation methods in the analysis of solution spectra; (vi) a novel integral transformation to improve the resolution; and (vii) the calculation of the dipolar sum for line width studies."
"A novel approach to the fabrication of tunnel diodes described. The experimental tunnel diode is a gallium arsenide planar device, using a conventional alloyed junction in an epitaxially grown GaAs substrate, and hermetically sealed by a high-temperature glass coating. The tunnel diode is fused to a circuit module using a solder reflow method. This package provides a high degree of mechanical reliability, great reduction in size, and an easy means of interconnection. Another unique feature is that the peak current is tailored electrically to within 1% by altering the impurity distribution near the junction, rather than by the conventional electrochemical etching technique. The resulting gallium arsenide tunnel diodes, having peak currents of 8 mA and capacitances of 5 pF, are suitable for use in a one-nanosecond switching circuit."
"The upper limits on the output pulse power of an injection laser arising from heating effects are estimated. The heat is assumed to be dissipated by conduction through a large homogeneous body. A simple method for computing over-all diode efficiency is given."
"Given an incompletely specified flow table for a sequential switching function, it is desired to minimize the number of rows in that flow table, i.e., to find an equivalent minimum-row flow table. Paull and Unger1 have discussed this problem in detail"
"Although rectifying p-n junctions in silicon carbide have been known for a long time, great difficulties have been encountered in constructing useful active devices in this material. This communication describes an active device operable at temperatures as high as 500°C and consisting of a tunnel diode p-n junction1 formed by alloying Si to crystals of very heavily doped p-type hexagonal Sic. The diode is made by using a very fast alloying cycle similar to those used to produce tunnel diodes in such materials as Ge or GaAs. The I–V characteristics have been generally similar to those of tunnel diodes produced in these materials, but the peak-to-valley current ratios achieved so far have been much lower, the highest value being 1.37."
"Continuous-wave operation of GaAs injection lasers depends critically upon the junction temperature1,2 which, in turn, depends critically upon the heat flow from the laser body.3,4 There are two instances in thel iterature in which continuous operation at 77° K was achieved at very low output power levels. In one, both mirror-ends of a Fabry-Perot structure were partly silvered;5 in the other, stimulated emission was observed from a unit with four cleaved sides.6 The purpose of this communication is to report that continuous-wave operation at 8400 Å of unsilvered GaAs lasers at 77° K has been consistently achieved at power levels near 0.65 watt and to describe the heat sink structure which has afforded the necessary thermal transfer characteristics"
"Previous work1 has shown that microwave oscillations can be generated by applying a strong electric field to a semiconductor such as n-type GaAs or InP. The results obtained by using extremely short pulses with low duty cycle were sufficiently promising to make it worthwhile, by appropriate thermal design of the specimen, to explore the possibility of obtaining greater average power or longer pulse lengths. This work has now progressed to the point where continuous operation has been obtained at room temperature."
"Since our readers will be interested in an early account of some of the technical features of the newly announced System/360 series of data processing systems, we are including in this issue four introductory papers on this subject. Additional papers, in this Journal, the IBM Systems Journal, and elsewhere, will go into greater detail regarding the many technical matters which perforce are but briefly covered or left unmentioned in this issue."
"The architecture of the newly announced IBM System/360 features four innovations: 1. An approach to storage which permits and exploits very large capacities, hierarchies of speeds, read-only storage for microprogram control, flexible storage protection, and simple program relocation. 2. An input/output system offering new degrees of concurrent operation, compatible channel operation, data rates approaching 5,000,000 characters/second, integrated design of hardware and software, a new low-cost, multiple-channel package sharing main-frame hardware, new provisions for device status information, and a standard channel interface between central processing unit and input/output devices. 3. A truly general-purpose machine organization offering new supervisor facilities, powerful logical processing operations, and a wide variety of data formats. 4. Strict upward and downward machine-language compatibility over a line of six models having a performance range factor of 50. This paper discusses in detail the objectives of the design and the rationale for the main features of the architecture. Emphasis is given to the problems raised by the need for compatibility among central processing units of various size and by the conflicting demands of commercial, scientific, real-time, and logical information processing. A tabular summary of the architecture is shown in the Appendices."
"A new microelectronics packaging technique, called Solid Logic Technology (SLT), utilizes silicon planar glass-encapsulated transistors and diodes, and graphic arts techniques for producing high-quality, passive components having tight tolerances. The result is a process permitting the low-cost realization of a variety of versatile, high-performance circuit modules. The salient features of SLT are described: the unique form of the semiconductor devices, the module fabrication process, and some performance results. In addition, insight is provided to the range of components that may be fabricated with this technology, i.e., inductors, capacitors and high-power transistors. Examples are shown of specific high-speed, high-density and complex circuit packages."
"This paper discusses the design of features that are intended to provide the IBM System/360 with a significant improvement in serviceability over that of previous systems. It was decided from the beginning to develop the System/360 as an integrated package of hardware, operational programs, and maintenance procedures."
"This paper describes the unique features of a set of IBM 7090 programs which provide design assistance to engineers who use Solid Logic Technology. These programs were applied in the design of the IBM System/360."
"A description is given of a newly discovered phenomenon which is observed when an electric field of a few thousand V cm−1 is applied to a homogeneous sample of n-type GaAs or InP. Above a well-defined threshold field, a time-dependent decrease in current is observed, which is largely independent of external circuit conditions. In long specimens this decrease is aperiodic, resembling random noise with a bandwidth of ∼109 c/sec. In short specimens, coherent oscillations are observed whose period is equal to the transit time of electrons between the ohmic electrodes of the structure. Frequencies over the range of 0.5–6.5 Gc/sec have been generated in this way, using experimental techniques which are described. Measurements of the efficiency of dc-to-rf conversion (from 1 to 2%), and of peak power outputs (up to 0.5 W), suggest that the new effect may have useful applications. Some diagnostic experiments are described and the results are discussed in terms of various possible mechanisms. Although the quantitative agreement with theory is poor it is concluded that the current instability may possibly be due to the amplification of lattice optical modes."
"This paper describes how a digital computer was used in combination with an emission spectrometer to determine chemical compositions of some steels. A mathematical model describing the relations between the composition and the intensities of the spectral lines was derived and experimentally tested. Both overlapping and matrix effects were considered. The computer was also used to calibrate the instrument."
"This paper describes a technique for the batch fabrication of ferrite memory arrays in which wire, previously coated with a thermoplastic, is formed into two orthogonally disposed sets of parallel wires. These grids are oriented between opposing molds having matched grooves filled with a fluid mixture of ferrite powder and thermosetting resin, in such a manner that one set of parallel wires coincides with the groove axes. After suitable curing this structure is released and heat treated to pyrolyze the organic materials and sinter the ferrite. A yield study on 108 memory arrays produced in this manner resulted in a yield of 72.2% on pulse testing under simulated operating conditions and an over-all process yield of 36.1%. The paper concludes with a tabulation of electrical characteristics of the arrays and a brief discussion of the applicability of the technology to various modes of operation and its potential for high-speed (250 nsec magnetic cycle time) operation."
"A double quantum stimulated emission device is proposed and some operating characteristics and relevant systems of materials are discussed."
"Following the original suggestion of R. W. Hellwarth,1 many investigators have succeeded in obtaining coherent light from optically pumped solid state lasers in the form of intense, sharp, single pulses. These pulses are commonly referred to as “giant” pulses, in recognition of the fact that their peak intensity far exceeds that of any of the several pulses (“spikes”) which are normally emitted in several-hundred-microsecond bursts when a laser is pumped beyond threshold. The duration of a giant pulse is usually only a few tens of nanoseconds. In contrast, the duration of each spike in the output of a normally operated laser is several hundred nanoseconds."
"This paper describes experiments to determine the crystal structure of a new oxide of calcium and palladium, CaPd3O4. This compound was obtained during the course of efforts to prepare alkaline earth palladates. In this process excess CaCO3 was heated with PdO in air to about 800° to 900°C. At intervals the reaction mixture was removed from the furnace, thoroughly remixed and then reheated. After several cycles, the reaction products were txamined by x-ray powder diffraction methods and were found to contain CaO, CaCO3, small amounts of Pd and PdO plus one or more unidentified phases. The CaO and CaCO3 were readily removed by washing with aqueous NH4CI solution. Small amounts of Pd and PdO remaining in the mixture were removed by boiling with aqua regia, which appeared to have no significant effect on the unknown phase or phases."
"An important consequence of the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory of superconductivity is the existence of a gap in the energy spectrum. In the original BCS paper1 the gap function was found by solving a homogeneous nonlinear integral equation in which the phonon interaction energy was taken to be a constant in some appropriate region and to be zero everywhere else. In that case the gap function is a constant which is determined by a simple algebraic relation. If one considers more general interactions, the existence of a nonzero energy-gap function is then by no means obvious. We must mention, however, that certain numerical calculations employing linearization procedures do produce nontrivial solutions for the cases they consider. (See Ref. 2, where other references are cited)."
"In a recent issue of this Journal, Seeber and Lindquist1 describe an algorithm for ordered retrieval of the items stored in an associative memory. The basic method employs one or more memory interrogations per item retrieved. In discussing the average number of interrogations per item required for the case of N random binary numbers, they employ a formulation that is difficult to evaluate for large numbers and large N. The main purpose of this Communication is to extend their analysis for the case when N is large; toward this end, it is instructive and interesting in itself to generalize the algorithm for an arbitrary radix r, where r ≥ 2. The presentation is in two parts. The first reviews the algorithm, exhibits a small example for numbers in a radix 4 representation, outlines the analytical approach, and comments on the nature of the results. The second presents a mathematical justification of the results."
"Pages 215 to 298 of this issue are the Proceedings of the conference on The Physics of Semimetals which was held in Pupin Laboratory, Columbia University on January 21, 1964. It was a Topical Conference of the American Physical Society, and served to bring together many of the people, recently increasing in number, active in research on the subject or otherwise interested in it. It is hoped that the present publication of the conference contributions and discussion, together representing current work and progress in the subject. will similarly be useful. Every formal contribution to the conference is represented by a paper here (a few of these are summaries, a full account being in course of publication elsewhere or projected). Records of the discussion will be found following the papers. I am indebted to the Organizing Committee of the conference, G. F. Dresselhaus, H. J. Juretschke, S. H. Koenig and P. A. Wolff, for compiling these discussion records; but omissions and inaccuracies should be blamed on me."
"Some simple facts regarding crystal structures and semiconducting vs semimetallic behavior of the Group V elements and the related Group IV–VI compounds are summarized. The simple chemical interpretation of these facts (based on three perpendicular p-bonding orbitals) is reviewed. This picture is reinterpreted in terms of a simple pseudopotential band model, which provides a deeper basis for understanding the simple chemical notions. The results of various band structure calculations are presented in detail in order to make explicit the direct relation between band and bond pictures as well as between crystal structures and semimetallic vs semiconducting behavior. The calculations also provide information as to probable locations of valence and conduction band edges."
"Measurements have been made of the Shubnikov-de Haas effect in bismuth at 1.5°K and fields up to 88 kG. The effect consists of oscillations in the resistance as a function of magnetic field. The oscillations result from the quantization of the transverse energy of the carriers in a magnetic field. From the positions of the oscillations, one can obtain information concerning the band structure. In the present investigation, we have obtained values of the g-factors for holes in bismuth and have determined the variation of Fermi energy as a function of magnetic field. First an outline of the theory will be presented and then the results."
"Spin splitting of the Landau levels due to the holes in bismuth has been observed in pulsed fields up to 175 kilogauss at 1.2°K. The effect was seen in Shubnikovde Haas oscillations. The oscillatory component of the transverse magnetoresistance R versus the magnetic field H is shown in Fig. 1 with J parallel to the bisectrix axis and H in the binary-trigonal plane. θ is the angle between H and the binary axis. The arrows show how rapidly the spin splitting of the levels increases as the field is tipped away from the binary axis. The oscillatory magnetoresistance when H is almost parallel to the trigonal axis is shown in Fig. 2. The splitting factor A (equal to the ratio of spin splitting to the Landau level separation) is nearly integral in this case. The double peak near 100 kilogauss is thought to be due to the super-position of an unsplit hole level and one of the last electron levels. This conclusion is supported by the temperature variation of the oscillations. The observation of the unsplit hole level suggests that the splitting factor is near two."
"The electrical resistivity and Hall coefficient in single crystals of bismuth have been measured as a function of uniaxial stress along the trigonal axis at 4.2°, 77°, and 295°K. The data are analyzed in terms of a two band model to determine the deformation potential components E1 and E2 given by δE0 = E1(ε11+ ε22 )+ E2ε33, where E0 is the overlap energy. By combining the results of the present experiment with the measurements of the pressure dependence of the galvanomagnetic effects1 and the value E0 = 0.027 eV, we find E1 = −2.4eV and E2 = +2.5eV."
"Dispersion curves for phonons propagating in the trigonal direction in bismuth at room temperature and at 75°K have been obtained in a neutron inelastic scattering experiment. Observed frequencies (units 1013 rad/sec) at 75°K are as follows: at the zone center, ωTO = 1.40 ± 0.02, ωLO = 1.89 ± 0.02; at the zone boundary in the trigonal direction, ωTA = 0.73 ± 0.01, ωLA = 1.12 ± 0.02, ωTO = 1.91 ± 0.02, ωLO = 2.03 ± 0.02. At room temperature, the observed frequencies were about 1.5 percent lower. Data were also obtained for longitudinal phonons propagating in the binary direction at 75°K. It is interesting to note that the splitting between the zone boundary frequencies for the optical and acoustic branches for each polarization is quite large. This splitting is difficult to understand if bismuth is thought of as a slightly distorted simple cubic lattice. The experimental results may be qualitatively understood if bismuth is considered to be made up of a series of double layers normal to the trigonal axis. The atoms in each double layer form a crinkled hexagonal net with strong, probably covalent, bonds between atoms. The forces between atoms on adjacent double layers are relatively weak. This model is consistent with the easy cleavage of bismuth normal to the trigonal axis. Analysis of the trigonal dispersion curves in terms of a linear chain model indicates that there are significant forces connecting a given atom with atoms situated on the four planes on either side of it."
"We shall interpret the galvanomagnetic properties of bismuth, antimony and the Bi-Sb alloy system in terms of bands of carriers known to exist in the pure semimetals. In our interpretation, the new carriers, presumed holes, observed by several investigators in antimony must have slightly warped oblate ellipsoidal energy surfaces to account for the galvanomagnetic data of Juretschke et al, rather than tilted ellipsoidal surfaces. These new holes, together with the well established holes in bismuth and the Shoenberg electrons in both bismuth and antimony, account for the anomalous Hall coefficients of antimony. Consideration of qualitative features of the nearly free electron model of Jones and Harrison suggests that a linear variation of the spatial potential upon alloying bismuth with antimony is sufficient to account for the considerable changes observed in the transport properties of the alloy system. This model also suggests that the conduction band minima in bismuth are located at different points in the Brillouin zone from those in antimony. Experimental support for these hypotheses is discussed."
"A new series of cyclotron resonance experiments has been made on antimony which gave extended information on electron and hole cyclotron masses. Experiments were carried out with the magnetic field in the principal crystal planes of antimony at 1.5°K and with 35 Gc/sec microwave radiation. The magnetic field of cyclotron resonance in certain regions was dependent upon the angle of tip of the magnetic field with respect to the metal surface. These effects were minimized by accurate alignment of the magnetic field along the sample surface. The carriers of two bands were observed. The cyclotron mass of one band, assumed to be the conduction band, was consistent with a tilted-ellipsoidal model for the energy surfaces. The cyclotron mass along the 1′ principal electron ellipsoid axis was measured from data in the binary-trigonal plane to be 0.215 m0. The conduction band ellipsoids were found to have a tilt angle of 36° and mass tensor components: m11=0.068 m0, m22=0.63 m0, m33=0.34 m0, |m23|=0.41 m0. The data indicated three sets of warped ellipsoids for the valence band. The warped ellipsoids were found to have a tilt angle of 4° and mass tensor components: m11=0.093 m0, m22=1.14 m0, m33=0.093 m0, and |m23|=0.082 m0. The cyclotron masses of holes and the measurement of cyclotron resonance at limiting points of the Fermi surface indicated that the hole surfaces probably are deformed from an ellipsoid."
"Since the details of this investigation are to be published elsewhere,1,2 it is our purpose to only briefly summarize the results here."
"The energy band structure of graphite is described in the region of the Fermi surfaces by the Slonczewski-Weiss model. The electron and hole Fermi surfaces are highly elongated and are aligned along the six Brillouin zone edges which are parallel to the trigonal axis of the crystal. The energy is a non-parabolic function of wavenumber and the Fermi surfaces are not ellipsoids. Galvanomagnetic, de Haas-van Alphen, and other experiments have established that: the band overlap is about 0.03 to 0.04 eV, the carrier densities of electrons and holes are each about 3 × 1018 cm−3 at low temperatures, the effective masses perpendicular to the trigonal axis are about 0.04 m0 for electrons and 0.06 m0 for holes, and the length-to-width ratio of the Fermi surfaces is about 12. The only important effect not included in the Slonczewski-Weiss model is the correlation of electron motion due to the coulomb interaction. Though this effect is expected to be important a priori, it is not yet clear if it causes important discrepancies between the predictions of the model and the experimental results."
"Recent magnetoreflection measurements in pyrolytic graphite have been interpreted using the magnetic energy levels obtained from the McClure-Inoue secular equation and the appropriate selection rules for interband transitions. Combining these results with those of the de Haas-van Alphen effect, the band parameters of the Slonczewski-Weiss model have been evaluated and the Fermi surface determined. The magnetoreflection experiment indicates considerable warping of the Fermi surface, particularly for holes. Further experiments to determine this warping more precisely are discussed."
"The effect of doping graphite single crystals with the acceptor boron was studied in the dilute range from ≲0.1 ppm to 0.5% by measurements of the Hall effect and de Haas-van Alphen effect. The transition from a mixed electron and hole conduction in the narrow band overlap region (0.035 eV) to that of a single hole conduction produces a peak in the Hall coefficient that shifts to a lower boron concentration with a decrease in temperature. The increase in hole concentration is accompanied by a rapid decrease in mobility, demonstrating the importance of collision broadening. Preliminary de Haas-van Alphen results tentatively identify the major electron and hole Fermi surfaces by means of the period shift with increasing acceptor concentration. A new, very small ellipsoid-like Fermi surface was discovered. It is aligned along the hexagonal axis, having an anisotropy ratio of 9 with orbital masses of about 0.0023 m0 for H ∥ C and 0.017 m0 for H ⊥ C. Analysis strongly indicates that this surface contains minority holes. Three of these surfaces are considered to be aligned symmetrically like “outriggers” about the major hole surface, producing a total of six in the Brillouin zone. A comparison is made with the cyclotron resonance results and a possible interpretation of these minority Fermi surfaces is presented using the Slonczewski-Weiss band model."
"Structure and texture of pyrolytic graphites (PG) make it unlikely that the three dimensional electron-energy bands of ideal graphite would provide an adequate basis for a discussion of electron transport processes over a broad temperature range.1 We propose to demonstrate that a coherent description of PG layer-plane phenomena can be based on a parabolic two band system with cylindrical equal-energy surfaces, which are located around the vertical Brillouin zone edges. In this simple two-band model (STB model), band overlap and effective mass must be interpreted as phenomenological parameters to be derived from experiments on highly heat-treated pure PG; with p-type (boron doped) specimens, the objective is to describe the situation from the shift of the Fermi level, on the assumption that the presence of trapping centers would not inject major perturbations in the band structure."
"Alfvén wave propagation in single crystal bismuth has been studied as a function of magnetic field to 105 kilogauss for frequencies between 13 and 18 kMc/sec. Small deviations from a linear dependence of wave velocity on magnetic field are found and are interpreted as quantum oscillations in the mass density of carriers. Theory and experiment are compared for the magnetic field along a bisectrix axis and along a two-fold axis. Good agreement is found for the first case, but significant discrepancies exist for the magnetic field along a two-fold axis."
"The infrared reflectivity of Bi in a magnetic field has been investigated between 100 cm−1 and 400 cm−1 in the quantum limit (cyclotron energy comparable to Fermi energy). A sharp decrease in the reflectivity1 occurs at that field at which transitions first become possible between the lowest two Landau levels of the conduction band. Calculations1,2 of the position of the absorption edge using two-band models3,4 agree well with observations and make possible an accurate determination of the Fermi energy as well as cyclotron splittings away from kz = 0. In addition quantum effects strongly influence the position of the reflection minimum near the field-modified plasma frequency. The position of the minimum has been studied for electric fields polarized both perpendicular and parallel to the magnetic field, and comparison will be made with calculations based on two-band models."
"The acoustic plasma wave suffers severe Landau damping for equal-temperature carriers obeying Boltzmann statistics, but can be relatively weakly Landau damped in semimetals if in the propagation direction the Fermi velocities and masses of the two carriers are very unequal. Only the carriers with the smaller Fermi velocity are important in producing collision damping since the other carriers store no appreciable momentum. Some results for many-valley semimetals like bismuth are given, together with a discussion of the problem of exciting and detecting this essentially neutral and longitudinal wave. Experiments undertaken to detect the acoustic plasma wave by transmission through thin wafers of bismuth at 10 Gc/sec have been unsuccessful thus far, but have revealed the existence of a higher velocity wave of weak amplitude that has not yet been identified. A discussion is also given of some magnetic quantum effects that should be associated with the acoustic wave."
"The magnetoresistance and the Hall coefficient for pure bismuth at 77°K have been calculated to the second order in the self-magnetic field, i.e. current density. The calculations show that the observed dependence of the galvanomagnetic effects on the current density at high currents can be qualitatively explained by the self-magnetic field. However, to obtain quantitative agreement it is necessary to include the contribution of diffusion currents in the calculation. The theory for the self-magnetoresistance, including diffusion, has been carried out for the pre-pinch regime of currents. The resulting curve for the self-magnetoresistance agrees well with the observed one if the scattering times between ellipsoids are taken to be of order 10−9 sec (assuming that the diffusion effects are not dominated by the surface, i.e. that the surface-recombination velocity is sufficiently small)."
"The experimentally determined I-V characteristics at large currents at 4.2°, 77°, and 300°K have been found to be nonlinear in both single crystal and wire samples of bismuth. A theory has been formulated which includes self-magnetoresistance, a redistribution of carriers (pinch) and bimolecular bulk and surface recombination. Very little information exists, either experimentally or theoretically, with regard to these recombination mechanisms. A program has been written to numerically solve the equations for various values of the electron-hole recombination time and surface velocity. It is found that the I–V characteristics are dominated by the self-magnetoresistance and vary only slightly for a wide range of the generation-recombination parameters."
"The problem of pattern classification has two highly interactive aspects: (1) the selection of numerical measurements to ‘represent’ the patterns, and (2) the specification of an algorithm to identify patterns, based upon the numerical values of these measurements. The present paper presents the mathematical framework for one attack upon these problems and gives results obtained in some experiments in character recognition."
"Magnetically controlled multipurpose logic provides a great flexibility and compactness. A matrix consisting of 2n saturable magnetic elements for n variable inputs is controlled by an adjacent magnetic pattern recorded on a magnetic medium, which determines the logical function to be performed. Since 22n magnetic patterns enable the performance of 22n logical functions, great flexibility of system operation is possible. The selection of the required magnetic materials is described. Application of the basic system to several special purpose machines is shown. In particular, the design of a computer using microprogramming techniques is described, and the application of this system to various serial and parallel computer operations is discussed."
"This paper discusses a new method of bit synchronization derived from an analog theory to solve the problems involved in receiving a serial train of bits from a remote data communication source. Test results show that accurate frequency and phase information can be derived from the received serial data. The Analog Derived Clock to accomplish this bit synchronization is described, and applications in two-wire (half duplex operation) and four-wire (full duplex operation) communication systems are discussed. Speeds up to 2 Mc/sec using existing digital circuit technology were achieved. The special advantage of the Analog Derived Clock over present clocking techniques is an increase in speed and a reduction in circuitry."
"A simple mathematical model of a hydraulic actuator is formulated, and the differential equations describing the model are derived. Experimental data and a computational solution of the model are determined. Results correspond favorably with oscilloscope velocity traces; hence the model could serve a useful purpose in mechanical design."
"This communication has considered the case of a Fabry-Perot cavity with light impinging on one end while the field distribution on the other end is observed. It has been shown that if one starts with a wave that can be expanded into the modes of the integral operator, and if the medium in the cavity is passive, more than one mode would be observed at the other end although the amplitude of the dominant mode can be much greater than that of the other modes. It was further shown that if there is present an active medium with sufficient gain there will be only a single mode, and the single mode is necessary and sufficient for complete spatial coherency."
"In a recent article1 to which we shall refer as [S&B], a two-photon laser was proposed and analyzed. This device consists of a cavity resonant at frequency vA and containing ions of type B with an inverted population NB/V between levels separated by an energy difference hvB such that vB = 2vA ; it is necessary that the system not lase at vB, which criterion can be satisfied by low reflectivity of the cavity at frequency vB, by strong parasitic absorption in the laser material near frequency vB, or preferably by a choice of ion such that the transition vB is highly forbidden to a single-quantum process. The authors of [S&B] thus show that a certain priming density of photons of frequency vA will provoke the simultaneous emission from the inverted population NB of pairs of photons vA at a rate exceeding the cavity loss,t he process diverging until the population inversion is eliminated."
"The synthesis of speech by joining together segments derived from natural speech has not proven to be satisfactory with segments smaller than words, especially because of discontinuities in pitch and formant frequencies at the junctions. It appears that segmentation of the control signals for an analog synthesizer may avoid these difficulties. This paper describes an experimental system to investigate this method. A library of synthesizer control signals corresponding to subword segments of speech is now being developed. The equipment used to generate the library of control signals, as well as that used to synthesize connected speech from the library, is described. The synthesizer is a transistorized terminal analog of the cascade type. The synthesizer control signals are originally derived from functions drawn on a transparent plastic belt with opaque tape and scanned by a CRT and photomultiplier. The control signal functions are varied until the speech segment being studied is satisfactory. The resulting control signals corresponding to the speech segment are then automatically digitized and recorded on punched cards for addition to the library. Connected speech may be generated by computer assembly of the synthesizer control signals corresponding to a sequence of speech segments. In the assembly of connected speech from the library segments, pitch and timing may be specified independently of the sequence of segments if desired."
"Observation of magnetic ac field penetration through superconducting tin films has led to the discovery of a 180° phase shift between the magnetic fields on either side of the film under favorable conditions. This result has so far been published only in a short note, and the present paper presents a detailed description of the experimental technique. A more quantitative discussion, with emphasis on the physical aspects of field attenuation in superconductors, will be published in a future paper."
"The problem of organizing a large mass of data occurs frequently in research. Normally, some process of generalization is used to compress the data so that it can be analyzed more easily. A primitive step in this process is the “clustering” technique, which involves gathering together similar data into a cluster to permit a significant generalization. This paper describes a number of methods which make use of IBM 7090 computer programs to do clustering. A medical research problem is used to illustrate and compare these methods."
"A new method of carrier retrieval is described for a suppressed-carrier, vestigial-sideband data transmission system. Tests over voice grade telephone lines indicate that operation at 3000 bits per second (in some cases, 3600 bps) can be obtained reliably over private lines with simple adjustable equalization, whereas fixed compromise equalization will allow speeds up to 2400 bps over a large percentage of lines in the switched network. The possibility of higher speed operation using a multilevel data signal is demonstrated by tests at 6000 and 8000 bps over a carefully equalized private line."
"A simple nondestructive method of measuring the refractive index and thickness of transparent films on reflective substrates has been developed. The technique involves the use of a microscope equipped with a monochromatic filter on the objective and a stage that can be rotated so that the reflected light is observed at various angles. The film thickness, d, is given by d = [ΔNλ]/[2µ(cos r2 − cos r1)], where λ is the wavelength of the filtered light, µ is the refractive index, and ΔN is the number of fringes observed between the angles of refraction r2 and r1. This technique is especially suited for films thicker than one micron. Techniques are also described for obtaining accurate thicknesses of films less than one micron by the combined use of monochromatic filters and an interference pattern chart. These techniques can be used to determine film thicknesses ranging from several hundred angstroms to several microns with accuracies of 0.2% on films thicker than 2µ, and accuracies of tens of angstroms on thinner films. Since visual comparisons of color can be used fairly easily for film thickness determinations, the techniques were used to construct a color chart for thermally grown SiO2 films up to 1.5µ thick."
"Frequency-domain analysis of transmission-line pulse response is presented. A computer program is used to evaluate the response, using subroutines to describe the line characteristics and terminal conditions. The program is applicable to lines of any cross section in which the TEM mode of propagation exists. The line characteristics are obtained from either formula prediction or frequency measurements on small samples. Because of skin effects or complex geometry, these characteristics can be extremely difficult to calculate, and so an experimental procedure is adopted for determining these parameters. The computer-program results are compared to measured values."
"The device described in this paper is capable of positioning a light beam to any one out of, say, 1000 linearly arranged positions. The light beam is controlled by electric signals applied to electro-optic switches. The deflection is performed in either one or two dimensions. The positions are digitally indexed, thus allowing a high-speed-random access to each position. The locations of the positions are determined by the geometric design; therefore they are independent of the amplitude of the control signal and do not follow its fluctuations. The deflected light beam can originate from any source, and the light absorption in the deflector is reasonably small. Thus, when using a laser source, the outcoming beam can be very bright. The contrast ratio of the brightness in switched and unswitched positions is about 100 to 1. The maximum deflection rate depends on the allowable power dissipation in the electro-optic switches. A deflection rate of 2 × 106 deflections per second seems feasible."
"In a recent paper1, Melas and Gorog discussed a technique for extending the length of certain shortened cyclic codes to correct the same class of error patterns (for example, “burst” error patterns). In this note a similar result is stated for unshortened cyclic codes,2 and the technique is employed to generate a class of binary cyclic codes which correct solid-burst errors."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes the ultramodern commuter car design which has been developed and applied by the Pennsylvania Railroad with the financial help of the City of Philadelphia and the general guidance of a local consulting firm. Test runs and service operation to date are included."
"Short-circuit currents, which are particularly high on ships, result from the combined contribution of generators and motors. This phenomenon can be analyzed with equations expressing the transient conditions of 3-phase rotating machines. Some simplification of these equations allows an easy calculation of short-circuit currents; however, tests are necessary to determine accurate maximum peak and symmetrical component values, especially for the motors. In the specifications of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), some coefficients which allow quick evaluation of the contribution of motors to short-circuit currents have been standardized; these are confirmed by the laboratory and marine tests described in this paper."
"After 3 years of careful evaluation, a modern electric multiple-unit passenger car operating under an 11-kv 25-cycle catenary system has been placed in commuter service on two railroads in the Philadelphia area. Its high-strength stainless steel car body with plastic interior finish, modern lighting, and modulated air conditioning, combines maximum space utilization with maximum passenger comfort and appeal. High-capacity d-c traction motors with double reduction flexible drives are mounted on fabricated 4-wheel trucks and supplied with electrical energy through semiconductor rectifiers. Static components, solidly connected by modern electronic circuitry, control the supply of energy in a smooth flow which insures stepless acceleration of the cars. Performance to date clearly indicates improved service at lower cost."
"The stability of certain discontinuous feedback systems is analyzed by using the z-transform theory. In the z plane, a system which is equivalent to the nonlinear system under steady-state conditions can be found, as well as the existence of any limit cycle, together with the frequency at which it occurs. An intuitive argument for the stability of a limit cycle is also presented, several examples are worked, and the results compared with those obtained by other methods. The z-transform method is exact and is not restricted by the order of the system."
"A compensation design method is proposed, which not only secures a desired location for the dominant roots on the s plane, but also satisfies conditions concerning the sensitivity of these dominant roots to the varying plant parameters. Examples are solved and verified on the analog computer."
"At present, cost reduction and reliability improvement are the two essentials demanded of numerical controllers. This paper describes a controller which realizes these demands by introducing the time-division-multiplex technique for the digital part of the equipment, as well as newly developed stable and economical delay devices required for time-division multiplexing of digital equipment composed of condenser temporary storages and a multiphase synchronous pulse system."
"Most metal mill drives use separate d-c generators for accurate speed control. Generator voltage and motor speed is controlled by an unidirectional trinistor control rectifier which supplies excitation to the generator main field. To reverse the drive, generator voltage must be reversed either by using a bias field or by connecting the trinistor in buck-boost across the single-machine field. In either case, the a-c nature of trinistor voltage tends to wipe out reverse ampereturns and prevent drive motor reversal. An external reactor in series with one machine field absorbs the a-c voltage and allows reversal of the drive motor. The size and inductance of the external reactor is to be determined from expressions and methods developed in this paper."
"Rectifier performance with the low-inductance counter electromotive force (emf) load of a large d-c motor may be some-what different than the more conventional performance resulting from a highly inductive load. If, at low average values, the current is not continuous but flows in pulses, both the static and the dynamic characteristics of the rectifier-motor system are affected. In the case of a main drive motor for a hot strip mill stand, mill performance may be impaired by the dynamic characteristics associated with discontinuous current flow. One means of over-coming this is the addition of a series-saturating reactor to the armature circuit."
"The no-load speed as a function of coil insertion slot opening and rotor skew is analyzed by operating directly on the flux density function of the stator for the 1-coil-per-pole motor. In addition, the no-load speed dependence on nonsinusoidal current excitation is derived. An attempt is made to note the effect of a skewed rotor which has been smeared by a manufacturing process. The maximum electrical no-load speed is 0.9986 of synchronous speed, for a total skew of about 119 electrical degrees with a stator coil slot opening of about 20 electrical degrees."
"This paper is concerned with the design of an electrohydraulic automatic gage control for a hot strip mill finishing train. The roll force method of gage control is employed wherein a measurement of the total force exerted by the mill upon the strip is used as an in-line variable to adjust the roll opening. Movement of the rolls is accomplished by energizing a hydraulic actuator mechanically connected to a nut which, in turn, is superimposed on the stand screws. With this technique of control, roll opening changes exceeding 60 mils per second were achieved."
"It will be shown that, for a single Gaussian noise source, an arbitrary number of mutually uncorrelated outputs can be produced by passing the noise through a parallel cascade of zero-memory nonlinear filters, where the output of the kth filter is related to its input by a kth-degree Hermite polynomial. This generalizes a recent finding1 in which four noncorrelated outputs were produced from a Gaussian source by nonlinear processing; extensions of this method to certain non-Gaussian noise sources are also indicated. The non-correlation between Gaussian input and distortion terms in the equivalent gain representation of an instantaneous non-linearity1 will be shown to hold for any separable random process."
"A linear system is completely controllable if for any initial state a control can be found to take the state of the system to the origin of the state space. Present criteria for testing linear systems for controllability require knowing the weighting function matrix of the linear system. In this paper a new criterion is presented which is applicable to a broad class of linear systems defined by linear n-dimensional ordinary vector-matrix differential equations; for this criterion only the coefficient matrices of the differential equation need to be known."
"This paper defines and summarizes several concepts and tools which have been developed to aid in the analysis of electronic systems from the part level through the system level. The problems explored are those for which the parameters, failure rates, and repair rates may be assumed constant; i.e., the exponential distribution may be assumed. It also is assumed that all parts, components, etc., are operable at an arbitrary reference time zero. Moreover, a short cut for determining the mean of the type of equations discussed in this paper is presented, the direct method of defining limiting availability is included, and the method of determining the mean of the reliabilities from their Laplace transform is demonstrated, along with checks on the availability equation matrix of an active system."
"A significant improvement in the miniaturization of an a-c to d-c power supply has been achieved by a circuit which combines pulse-amplitude and pulse-duration modulation to provide constant area pulses. The modulation is obtained in an inverter-regulator circuit which employs a saturating 2-core high-frequency transformer and gate turn-off semiconductor switches. The principal contributions to miniaturization are the elimination of the 60-cycle power transformer and the reduction in size of the filter circuit components."
"In this paper, three different methods are developed for calculating various moments of the system variables of a linear system, represented by matrix equation x = Ax. A transformation Q is developed which transforms the system matrix A into a special matrix R. Liapunov function V is considered as V = xtQtQx and it facilitates evaluation of various moments ∫0∞ tmx2dt These methods are especially useful for high-order systems. Examples are included to explain each method."
"This paper examines the behavior of 2-channel adaptive control systems, and shows that, contrary to elementary considerations, adjustment will not proceed generally along the line of steepest descent. Design criteria for multichannel adaptive systems are discussed and the conclusion reached that simultaneous adjustment of six variables is practicable."
"In this paper, the author accurately describes the characteristic error of a synchro transmitter which results from loading the secondary windings. The second harmonic error resulting from unbalanced loads has long been apparent to synchro manufacturers and users and has already been described.1 The secondary slot-harmonic error considered in this paper was predicted by the author while he was employed by the Eclipse-Pioneer Division of the Bendix Corporation. The existence of this error is not generally known, and its description has not been previously published. It is also shown that the minimum requirements for winding distributions are not the same in loaded and unloaded operation."
"A general and unique approach to the analysis and synthesis of control systems in the parameter plane is presented which may be advantageously applied to the design of linear continuous systems, sampled-data systems, nonlinear systems, and systems with distributed parameters. This paper is concerned with the application of the method to linear continuous systems. As a simple and rapid procedure for factoring characteristic polynomials in the parameter plane, the proposed method permits the designer to maintain control over salient characteristics of both transient and frequency responses. The introduction of the Chebyshev functions greatly facilitates the procedure and makes it suitable for simulation on either analog or digital computers. In the design procedure, all graphical and analytical operations are performed in the real domain."
"This paper presents parameter-plane analysis and synthesis of sampled-data linear control systems. Just as in the continuous system case,1 the proposed method permits the designer to obtain readily the information about the effects on both the absolute and relative stability of adjusting system parameters. Since the characteristic equations in the parameter plane can be factored in a straightforward manner for various values of system parameters, the salient characteristics of system response may be advantageously designed by the presented procedure. The introduction of the Chebyshev functions makes the procedure ideal for simulation on a digital computer. Also, all analytical and graphical operations are performed in the real domain."
"The stability and self-excited oscillations of nonlinear feedback control systems are investigated in the parameter plane with respect to both the system parameters and the initial conditions. The proposed analysis procedure is based upon the describing functions defined for both pure and damped sinusoidal signals and, therefore, permits the designer to obtain information about the effects on absolute and relative stability of adjusting system parameters or varying the initial signal level. Control systems with two non-linearities and with amplitude- and frequency-dependent describing functions may be designed advantageously. The method is particularly useful when the describing function appears as a variable pole of relevant transfer functions. The procedure requires no block-diagram manipulations, and it is suitable for the application of computer techniques."
"The optimal control of complex multivariable systems poses a great many problems for the control engineer. Among the most difficult of these is the computational problem. An attempt is made here to lay foundations for a control theory based on a plan of attack utilized by human organizations for centuries; namely, notions of division of labor and co-ordination. The usefulness of these concepts is examined via a number of mathematical models."
"A control method will be presented, which is designed to sense the current response function of the plant and its current sensitivity to the control variable, as well as to provide optimal or suboptimal control on the basis of these acquired data. Differential equations, transfer-function coefficients, and the state of the system are not identified. Assumptions regarding the plant are general enough to be satisfied by most plants; linearity and a knowledge of the order are not assumed. Stability analysis and simulation-type experimental results are included."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The control and power supply described is completely static, automatically reversible, and has proportional output with rate compensation. SCR's(silicon-controlled rectifiers), transistors, diodes, thermistors, and magnetic cores are used to perform the control functions. A silent, accurate, and compact air-conditioning system can be achieved when this control and power supply is used with a thermoelectric heat pump."
"In this paper, the control of comfort in the modern office building is discussed with particular emphasis on the thermal aspect. The thermal barrier is approached as higher levels of illumination are provided, particularly when all-air systems are involved. Since comfort can be provided only within the rather narrow limits of air temperature and volume, means of handling this lighting energy at the higher levels are discussed and reuse of the energy suggested. Considerable savings can be effected by the proper design of air-handling lighting fixtures and systems; relative costs are tabulated for a 10-story office building, and additional engineering ``extras'' are included."
"To date, published material dealing with large air-purged systems1-5 has been somewhat scarce. This paper is an attempt to make more information available by presenting various arrangements for dealing with hazardous areas, explaining pressurized and purged systems, and describing a large air-purged system installation and the test results obtained during its startup."
"A method to synthesize the control signal on-line, by using the form of an optimization problem, is examined. Control of linear processes is considered, and bounds or inequality constraints on the control variable are attacked directly, without assigning penalties on the performance criterion. The optimal-control problem is formulated as a nonlinear programming problem, and the solution is obtained through a co-ordinate-wise gradient method. Simulation of the on-line controller is performed; a marked improvement in accuracy over conventional sampled data systems is shown. The method, as presently employed, can consider bounds on the magnitude or on the rate of change of the control variable."
"Half-cycle-response magnetic amplifiers suitable for controlling 2-phase servomotors have been studied by many authors. In particular, Geyger and Kallander suggested a full-wave push-pull circuit which resulted in superposing the fundamental frequency voltage on unidirectional voltage across the control winding, helping to stabilize those servomotors which have a low ratio of effective viscous friction to inertia. This paper considers a modification of these circuits for both resistance and motor loading. The modification results in an improved amplification factor and the motor loaded circuit is analyzed for both stand-still and running conditions, taking into account the generated voltage of the motor and variable extinction angle. Analysis is then verified by experimental data."
"Given the double integral plant ÿ(t)=u(t), |u(t)|≤1, the control u(t) is determined which, in the time interval [0, T], forces the state of the plant to zero, minimizes the fuel consumed, as measured by ∫0T|u(t)|dt, and results in a response time T which does not exceed a prespecified multiple of the minimum time. A design of the nonlinear controller necessary is included."
"In the usual application of root locus techniques, points are found by a method of trial and error according to a number of standard rules,1 or by the use of some additional aids for more accuracy.2,3 With either method, the determination is often cumbersome and laborious, To facilitate the construction of the root locus, this paper presents a procedure for determining a pair of root loci in the complex region by the other loci, especially by those on the real axis that usually can be found easily. The gain of each root locus is expressed by a curve, a method that has been found to be more rational than the ordinary plotting of gain values on each locus. Three illustrative examples are presented to demonstrate the relative simplicity of the described method, as well as the accuracy of its results."
"This paper suggests the use of simple transformations like ẋ=kx, kx2 for second-order nonlinear differential equations to effect rapid plotting of the phase-plane trajectories. The method is particularly helpful in determining quickly the trajectory slopes along simple curves in any desired region of the phase plane. New planes such as the tẋ-x, tẋ2-x are considered for the study of some groups of nonlinear time-varying systems. Suggestions for solving certain higher-order nonlinear systems are also made."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The objective of this paper is first to introduce the formulation of a control problem, called the ``basic control problem,'' then to derive from it a concept of adaptation. Furthermore, the paper shows how self-organizing subsystems can be used in the design stage or in on-line operation to solve the basic control problem. The discussion is conceptual; its objective is to indicate possible new avenues for research in control and adaptation, and no attempt is made towards mathematical formalization of the proposed ideas."
"Adaptive or self-optimizing systems utilize feedback principles to achieve automatic performance optimization. These principles have been applied to both control systems and adaptive logic structures. The Adaline (adaptive linear threshold element) is essentially the same as an adaptive sampled-data system with quantized input and output signals. A digital controller made of adaptive neurons comprises a pattern-recognizing control system. When the state of a control system is represented as a pattern, learning to make the control decisions actually becomes the same as learning to classify the patterns."
"Psychologists approach problems differently from engineers, in that they are concerned with actual, not optimal, behavior. They ask what mechanisms humans use, how their behavior can best be described, and what affects their performance. This paper will discuss one such behavioral problem, the way in which a change in an auditory signal is detected. It will be necessary to consider three clearly established factors that contribute to actual detection behavior: the physiological effect of the signal on the observer, his motivations, and the learning that takes place."
"A main limitation of Mitrovi's graphical method for analysis and synthesis of linear control systems lies in the fact that only the last two coefficients of the characteristic equation are considered as variables. This paper presents a generalization of the mentioned method, by which it is possible to designate that arbitrary pairs of coefficients be considered variable. The generalization provides a general graphical method for synthesis of linear systems, which can be applied whenever it is required to examine how the zeros of an algebraic equation are affected by a change in its coefficients. The generalized method achieves the same degree of simplicity as does the method in its primary form."
"This paper presents a procedure which applies the generalized Mitrovic method and the steepest descent approach to the automatic analog solution of algebraic equations and the plotting of root loci. The significance of the procedure is its simplicity and its use of general-purpose analog computing equipment."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Fourier series representation of a random function is used to obtain the optimum (in the mean-square sense) linear approximation to systems with no memory and also for systems with energy storage. The optimality of the result is demonstrated."
"The problem of determining the transient response of a feedback thyratron armature controlled d-c motor is considered. First a simple graphical approach is used to determine the response of the corresponding system without feedback. Later feedback is introduced and the speed torque curves are slightly modified so that the same technique might be used. The proposed method is easily extended to the case of slowly time-varying inputs."
"This paper presents an extension of the Lur'e stability function to a class of discrete-time systems which may contain saturation-type nonlinear elements. Examples are presented which demonstrate the improved stability inequalities available from this function."
"A digital filtering process is introduced, its characteristics and accuracy analyzed with and without random noise. Ways are discussed for using this signal component separation digital filter in control systems. An application to a typical large booster is demonstrated by combined analog-digital simulation."
"A possible method of controlling the attitude of satellites and space vehicles makes use of a reaction-wheel control system based upon the conservation of angular momentum. Such reaction-wheel systems are currently under consideration for use in earth satellites. The development of high-capacity systems (i.e., systems which have the ability to develop large control torques and to store high values of angular momentum) can extend the applicability of reaction-wheel control to include deep-space missions. The problems encountered in the design of such systems are mainly those which arise from cross-coupling of torques among the principal axes and from component nonlinearities. A design for a 3-axis control system, in which control torques about each axis are derived solely from angular information measured about the same axis, is presented. The system is designed for maximum obtainable rates of several degrees per second. System stability and bounds on the magnitudes of the interaxial disturbances are investigated analytically from a linearized model. Nonlinear effects are investigated by means of digital computer simulation and an experimental model."
"The stability of sampled-data incremental servos is examined by both Lyapunov's second method and describing functions. The application of Lyapunov's second method leads to conditions that are sufficient to ensure that, under arbitrary initial conditions, the system will eventually reach equilibrium with the error within the threshold and with zero error derivatives. A describing function is evaluated for the combination of an on-off nonlinearity With threshold, a sampler, and an integration. By using the describing function, low-frequency oscillations can be predicted easily. A method for determining transient response by using z transforms expanded in power series is included in Appendix II."
"A set of performance limitations is developed for a class of minimal fuel satellite attitude controls where the control torque is amplitude constrained. Both the fixed and free terminal time problems are considered. Conditions for controllability and minimal fuel controllability are derived using quantity of fuel and control time as parameters. The results are compared with those of a similar system where the control torques have been idealized to impulses."
"Systems having dry friction nonlinearity can be stabilized by introducing intentional nonlinear passive compesation. For small ramp inputs it is necessary to increase the damping by a derivative control which becomes saturated for high ramp rates. To decrease the steady-state error at high ramp rates and achieve stability, a dead zone before the integrator is used. A scheme for an input adaptive system is also presented in this paper."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The response of electroexplosive devices to electric stimuli must be thoroughly understood to design reliable firing circuits. Techniques available for defining the sensitivity of electroexplosives which offer a ``variable measure'' are to be preferred over ``go'' and ``no-go'' tests at a specification limit. Studies are underway squib parameters, and tests are suggested which will give sensitivity data useful in the design of firing systems and the assessment of reliability."
"The controlled system has the transfer function G(s)=K/(s-λ1)(s-λ2). The control input is u(t), |u(t)|≤1, and the out put is y1(t). the control which forces any initial state y1(0), ẏ1(0) to the terminal state y1(T), ẏ1,(T), such that -K/Λ1Λ2≤y1(T)≤K/λ1λ2, ẏ1(T)=0, and which minimizes the fuel, F(T)=∫0T |u(t)|dt is determined. The phase plane is divided into three sets G-, G+, and G0; if the state is in G- then u(t)=-1 is used; if the state is in G+, then u(t)=+1 is used; if the state is in G0, then u(t)=0 is used."
"As presently practiced, metal cutting is a relatively inefficient process. The equations relating input parameters and the finished product are mainly empirical, and they are applicable only over limited ranges and conditions. A particularly significant problem is the machining of recently developed high-strength materials for the aerospace industry. Present numerical control systems cannot achieve optimum machining because the feedback loops are closed only around the dimensional position of the tool and workpiece. This paper describes the design of an adaptive controller which, in conjuction with a numerical control system, extends the process measurement to the actual tool-work interface and adjusts the process input parameters so as to optimize cutting performance. The system can be programmed to optimize a selected performance criterion such as cost while applying constraints on other factors such as surface finish and machine horsepower."
"Given the system ẋ(t)=A(t)x(t)+u(t),where A(t)=-A'(t) and ||u(t)||≤1, it will be shown that the control u=-x(t)/||x(t)|| drives any initial state to zero in such a manner that the response time, the consumed fuel, and a linear combination of time and control energy are minnimized. The theory is applied to the optimum angular velocity cotrol of a tumbling space body."
"This paper deals with feedback control of controlled systems with dominant dead time. It is shown in which way the special difficulties arising with the presence of dead time in a controlled system can be overcome by means of so-called ``complementary feedback,'' so that an optimal control performance will be achieved. In addition, both the influence of unavoidable errors in the technical realization of this principle and the question of the best-suited type of controller will be discussed. Finally, several ways of realization and their adjustment are discussed, and a concept is given for a self-adjusting control in case the dead time of the controlled system is variable."
"This paper describes an application of the quasi-linearization principle and the use of off-line analog computers for the design of nonlinear feedback control systems. The design objective is to make the feedback system meet a set of transient as well as steady-state specifications under deterministic system inputs. According to the given specifications, the desired input to the nonlinear element is established. With the aid of an analog computer, the nonlinear element is tested by its desired input. Based on the test result, the nonlinear element is replaced by an equivalent linear element which has approximately the same input-output relationship as the nonlinear element. Linear system design techniques are then used to design the quasi-linearized systems, such that the actual input to the nonlinear element is indeed as desired. High-order feedback control systems in which the major nonlinearity, arises from the preamplifier and/or the error-measuring device are particularly amenable to this approach."
"This paper describes a method for identifying the parameters of a class of power spectra. In contrast to conventional methods of spectral analysis, the method assumes a particular form for the power spectrum and gives direct estimates of unknown parameters. Thus the method is faster than ordinary spectral analysis and can be easily implemented by a digital computer for use in an adaptive loop. The derivation of the estimates assumes that the power spectrum has no zeros, and is based on well-known results in the theory of autoregressive schemes. Some ways of extending the results to the case where zeros are present in the spectrum are suggested. The method can also be used as a prewhitening technique in conjunction with ordinary spectral analysis."
"The method of linear programming described here is well suited to the design of open-loop or closed-loop sampled-data control systems with deterministic inputs. Linear equations are written to express the errors at sampling instants in terms of the undetermined coefficients of the over-all pulse transfer function. Other linear equations are written to impose any desired limits on errors or on coefficients. A solution is found which maximizes an objective function. The design method is explained and the results of a practical example are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The historical background of electric space heating and cooling, and automatic temperature control, is summarized, and developments since world war II outlined. The advantages of discontinuous control systems are traced from recent investigations into the control of temperature in electric space heating, and the gap between nonlinear control theory and the discontinuous control of electric space heating and cooling is outlined. The representation of the controlled process by block diagram is discussed in detail. The choice of the temperature transducer for use as a primary feedback element is examined. The suitability of nonlinear elements for line voltage control is discussed. The snap-acting switch is treated as a discontinuous control element. A control equation is quoted combining the primary feedback element, the control element, and the process. The action of this control equation is illustrated."
"Some 219 selected references on electric space heating and cooling, automatic temperature control, and allied subjects, are listed in the order in which they appear in the text of Part I. They are also classified under subject headings."
"The simplest forms of 2-position discontinuous temperature control systems for the electric space heating-cooling process are described. Simple and complex forms of the controlled process are represented by block diagrams. It is shown that secondary feedback can compensate for a control element's nonlinearities. The secondary feedback conditions for optimum compensation, and the effects of overcompensation, are discussed. An actuating signal equation is derived which represents the control system. Description is given of a new technique for predicting the behavior of a proposed control system by displaying the actuating signal equation in three dimensions. The need for overriding commands is outlined, and their introduction into the system via the primary feedback loop is explained. A new overriding command system, for room-vacancy and night-shutdown events, is introduced. Description is given of a new analog for the discontinuously controlled electric space heating-cooling process. The analog is simple to handle, but represents the process with a degree of accuracy sufficient for research and development purposes. From the analog, a control equation for the discontinuously controlled process is formulated. Mention is made of the desirability of basing the reference input on information other than the command."
"A new phase-plane diagram represents the electric space heating-cooling process controlled by a 2-position system. The cycling of the controlled process, under conditions of dynamic equilibrium, is represented in the time domain by the T-T diagram. Both representations are combined to form a new diagramn for the analysis and prediction of controlled-process performance. Expressions are derived for all salient cycling characteristics and figures of merit of the controlled process. The correction of the inherent error due to process transit delay is described. A new method for this correction is shown by circuit and block diagrams."
"Three new schemes for 3-position temperature control are described. A new method is introduced for analyzing and predicting the behavior of a multiposition temperature control system by displaying its actuating signal equation in three dimensions. Two new methods of predicting or analyzing the behavior, in the phase plane and time domain, of the multiposition temperature-controlled electric space heating process are described. Expressions are derived for the evaluation of the important performances indexes and figures of merit of such multiposition controlled processes. A new display method is outlined for simultaneously portraying the phase-plane and time-domain performance of such processes. Cycling characteristic diagrams are shown for 3-position controlled electric space heating processes with two alternative magnitudes of the intermediate value of manipulated variable. New 4-position temperature control schemes are described; and their cycling characteristic is shown for the control of the electric space heating processes. The application of these new techniques to other fields of control, and their limitations, are mentioned."
"Quasi-continuous temperature control is needed when electric space heating is applied to temperature-dependent processes. In such applications, multiposition systems cannot supply the accurate control often required, and quasi-continuous systems have economic and operating advantages over many continuous systems. The reference input of a quasi-continuous system can be a trimmed, optimized, open-loop command derived from the incoming and outgoing quality levels of the process. Feedforward correction for process lag, and overriding commands, can easily be incorporated into such systems. Quasi-continuous characteristics contain a number of discontinuities. Time can be saved by representing these characteristics by a continuous profile. A multitude of intermediate values of manipulated variable can be obtained by new and inexpensive methods. When the heating load must remain intact, phase-discontinuity methods can be used which approximate level-discontinuity control. For fast response processes, phase-controlled SCR's (silicon-controlled rectifiers) can be used. The T-T (temperature-time) diagrams have limitations as representations of quasi-continuously controlled processes. Time domain information can be obtained from the phase plane where quasi-continuous performance resembles a spiral. Nonlinearities can be advantageously introduced into quasi-continuous profiles. Performance is improved by derivative feedback. It is possible to predict quasi-continuous system behavior by means of a 3-dimensional actuating-signal display."
"One of the most important problems facing a control engineer today is to find a simple and satisfactory method for determining the transfer function of an unknown time-varying control system. In this paper the transfer function is represented by a gain constant and ratio of two rational polynomials of s, where s is Laplace variable. The gain constant and the coefficients in the polynomials vary in an unknown fashion but rather slowly. A method is developed whereby as many independent signals are developed as the number of unknown coefficients. These signals are used to determine the unknown coefficients in a straightforward manner."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Summary form only given. In this photomicrograph of a tungsten surface with nitrogen atoms adsorbed on it, each small white spot represents an atom. The overall impression created by the illustration is an artistic one. Its real value, however, lies in its technological utility. The photomicrograph was made possible by the ion emission microscope, one of the newest tools of research, that bears little resemblance to the familiar optical microscope. The new instrument enables its user to \"see\" atoms by studying images that are enlarged one million times. At General Electric, work has been under way to exploit the power and versatility of the microscope for studies of the interactions between gases and metals. It has been possible to observe directly the effectiveness of different atomic arrangements in bonding gases, such as nitrogen and carbon monoxide, onto tungsten. The illustration reproduced above is typical of the results obtainable."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1964."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"When a comprehensive merger proposal was submitted in 1962 to the AIEE and IRE memberships, it was accepted by an overwhelmingly favorable vote. Now we, the membership of the older societies, are The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. With broad coverage of the entire electrical and electronics field within our scope, it is appropriate that IEEE should select as its unifying and \"core\" publication, reaching all its members, a new journal born this monthfittingly termed IEEE SPECTRUM. Its novel designation was wisely and felicitously suggested by E.K. Gannett, in charge of IEEE Editorial Operations, and W.R. Crone, Consultant to the IEEE STUDENT JOURNAL. It is anticipated that IEEE SPECTRUM will contain review and tutorial articles, and occasionally articles of broad and fundamental import. It will include articles of application and of economic significance. It will present news of the profession and of IEEE, announcements and reports of conferences and conventions, news of education, and letters to the editor on topics of broad concern as well as of general interest. Also included will be news of scientific and engineering advancement, items of political and social interest to the profession, and abstracts of or references to material in other IEEE publications. The technical level of IEEE SPECTRUM will be such that it will be a positive force in upgrading the level of membership ability and in fostering the development and expansion of the field encompassed by IEEE. It will inherently aim to be an agent for human progress through enhanced professional capabilities. The title IEEE SPECTRUM is particularly appropriate in view of the unusually wide range of topics falling within the scope of IEEE. Serving as a source of dependable and timely information on matters within the scope of IEEE, and thus keeping the membership of the Institute up to date in its fields, is only one of the purposes of IEEE SPECTRUM. Another primary aim of IEEE and its publications is to foster and strengthen the professional standing of its members and to promote and emphasize their professional accomplishments. The author briefly considers the nature of professionalism and the personal value and significance of the professional attitude among engineers."
"Advertisement."
"The undersigned believe that the following material, describing the national basis of electromagnetic measurements, deserves the thoughtful consideration of all members of the IEEE, and we have recommended that it be brought to their attention through this publication. The size and importance of the electrical and electronics industry is clear to all members of the IEEE without the need of statistics. What may not be so clear is that this whole industry must rest on a uniform base of accurate and precise measurement if it is to achieve in practice the results which physicists and engineers find possible in principle. That base can only be provided by the National Bureau of Standards. However, the provision of a uniform base of measurement is costly in manpower, laboratory space, equipment, and time because of the great scope of electromagnetic quantities in kind, frequency, magnitude, and accuracy. There is a strong indication, from some of the material presented, that the provision of that base has not kept pace with the growth of the industry. We believe that the National Bureau of Standards is making strong efforts to discharge the task assigned to it by Congress, but we also believe that the importance and magnitude of the problem call for understanding and support from outside NBS. It is from this standpoint that we recommend to members of the profession the reading of this article."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"IEEE offers a service so that readers may easily request further information about products advertised in IEEE Spectrum. The US postage paid Reader Service Card enclosed in this issue provides space for you to request data from the various firms who adver"
"Advertisement."
"For information on numbered Items in this issue, circle the numbers and complete ALL information in box."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This chapter contains sections titled: 0.1 The Purpose of This Book, 0.2 Time Series, 0.3 Communication Engineering, 0.4 Techniques of Time Series and Communication Engineering Contrasted, 0.41 The Ensemble, 0.42 Correlation, 0.43 The Periodogram, 0.44 Operational Calculus, 0.45 The Fourier Integral; Need of the Complex Plane, 0.5 Time Series and Communication Engineering—The Synthesis, 0.51 Prediction, 0.52 Filtering, 0.53 Policy Problems, 0.6 Permissible Operators: Translation Group in Time, 0.61 Past and Future, 0.62 Subclasses of Operators, 0.7 Norms and Minimization, 0.71 The Calculus of Variations, 0.8 Ergodic Theory, 0.81 Brownian Motion, 0.9 Summary of Chapters"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Title, Copyright, Preface, Contents"
"This chapter contains sections titled: 5.0 The Problem of Approximate Differentiation, 5.1 An Example of Approximate Differentiation, 5.2 A Misleading Example of Approximate Differentiation, 5.3 Interpolation and Extrapolation"
"This chapter contains sections titled: 4.0 Symbolism and Definitions for Multiple Time Series, 4.1 Minimization Problem for Multiple Time Series, 4.2 Method of Undetermined Coefficients, 4.3 Multiple Prediction, 4.4 Special Cases of Prediction, 4.5 A Discrete Case of Prediction, 4.8 General Tecbnlque of DIscrete Prediction"
"This chapter contains sections titled: 3.0 Formulation of the General Filter Problem, 3.1 Minimization Problem for Filters, 3.2 The Factorization of the Spectrum, 3.3 Prediction and Filtering, 3.4 The Error of Performance of a Filter; Long-lag Filters, 3.5 Fillers and Ergodic Theory, 3.6 Computation of Specific Filter Characteristics, 3.7 Lagging Filters, 3.8 The Determination of Lag and Number of Meshes in a Filter, 3.9 Detecting Filters for High Noise Level, 3.91 Filters for Pulses, 3.92 Filters Having Characteristics Linearly Dependent on Given Charaderistics, 3.93 Computation of Filter: Resume"
"This chapter contains sections titled: 2.01 Formulation of the Problem of the Linear Predictor, 2.02 The Minimization Problem, 2.03 The Factorization Problem, 2.04 The Predictor Formula, 2.1 Examples of Prediction, 2.2 A Limiting Example of Prediction, 2.3 The Prediction of Functions Whose Derivatives Possess Auto-correlation Coefficients, 2.4 Spectrum Lines and Non-absolutely Continuous Spectra, 2.5 Prediction by the Linear Combination of Given Operators, 2.6 The Linear Predictor for a Discrete Time Series"
"This chapter contains sections titled: 1.00 Fourier Series, 1.01 Orthogonal Functions, 1.02 The Fourier Integral, 1.04 More on the Fourier Integral; Realizability of Filters, 1.1 Generalized Harmonic Analysis, 1.18 Discrete Arrays and Their Spectra, 1.2 Multiple Harmonic Analysis and Coherency Matrices, 1.3 Smoothing Problems, 1.4 Ergodic Theory, 1.5 Brownian Motion, 1.6 Poisson Distributions, 1.7 Harmonic Analysis in the Complex Domain"
"This chapter contains sections titled: 1 The Auto-correlation Function, 2 The Integral Equation, 3 The Modified Integral Equation, 4 The Factorization Problem, 5 The Functions ψ1, ψ2, and α, 6 The Prediction Operator"
"This chapter contains sections titled: 1 Linear Filters, 2 Minimization of RMS Error, 3 Determination of the Weighting Function, 4 Realization of Operator—Mathematical Formulation, 5 RC Filter, 6 Prediction and Lag with and without Noise"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Title, Acknowledgment, Foreword, Preface, Contents, Symbols"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Plasma Dispersion and Weak-Beam Interactions, Strong Interaction with Ions"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Interactions in a Waveguide Filled with a Weak Beam and a Plasma, Thin-Beam Interactions, Interactions in an Infinite Magnetic Field"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Longitudinal Interactions, Transverse Interactions"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Statement of the Problem, Green's Function Formalism for the Response to a Localized Source, Proof of Criteria on Amplifying Waves and Absolute Instabilities, Propagation of Pulse Disturbances and Relations Between Temporal and Spatial Growth Rates of Convective Instabilities, Comments on the Application of the Criteria and Some Physical Interpretations, Discussion, Examples"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Historical Review of the Problem, Assumptions and Mathematical Models"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Title, Copyright, Preface, Contents, Introduction"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Input, Compiling, Execution, Modifications"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Size Limitations, Card Punching, Running at the M.I.T. Computation Center, Output, Error Messages"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction, Header Statements, Descriptors, Structural Data, Load Data, Modifications, Alternate Input Forms"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Scope of STRESS, Coordinate Systems, Relationship Between Global and Local Coordinates, Structural Types, The Use of Releases, Units, Identification of Joints, Members, and Data, Statement Types, A Sample Problem - Initial Specification, Sample Problem - Modifications"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Machine Configuration, Restrictions, Language conventions, Console operation"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In the last issue of the Transactions> a review of our groups situation indicated a need for a meeting in the Fall to replace the Radio Fall Meeting which has been discontinued. Since that time, specific plans for such a meeting have been made, and it appears that an excellent program is in prospect. (See the publicity statement on Page 7.)"
"There will be a special series of Technical Sessions on Consumer Electronics at the National Electronics Conference in Chicago this year. This group of sessions is intended to replace our participation in the Radio Fall Meeting which has been discontinued. A dinner meeting and an award similar to the Radio Pall Meeting Award are also planned."
"Summary form only given, as follws. One hundred thousand men worked for twenty years in building the Great Pyramid. They quarried 2-1/2-ton blocks of stone on the east bank of the Nile, floated them across the river on logs, then tugged and grunted them up ramps to be set in place unaided by mechanical device or power. Today, we wonder that they could do so much with so little in the way of tools. And we wonder at the fantastic cost of the project in terms of human labor. Tomorrow, our children may wonder how we were able to do so much with our tools and methods. And they will wonder at our costs. For tomorrow cost and producibility barriers will be cracked at a rate that would have appeared incredible yesterday. Reason: Billions of dollars' worth of research and development that offer new tools and new methods for attacking cost and producibility problems. Let us consider only one representative example. Until now, if we wanted to put a hole in metal, we drilled or punched it. Tomorrow we will have many choices: Ultrasonic waves, laser beams, electron beams, electrochemical erosion, electrical discharge machining, ceramic gun drilling, localized burning, controlled etching, hot machining, subzero cutting, plasma arcs, abrasive blasting, water bullets, to name only a few now known. Not all are ready for application. And the engineer or manager who commits himself to unproved tools or methods runs a certain risk. But he who turns his back on those new tools and methods faces a certain fate:failure in tomorrow's business. The man who will be in the top spot tomorrow is the one who studies and evaluates the new technologies and adopts them when the time is right. He is the man who looks ahead."
"In the UHF frequency range where a quarter wavelength is of the order of 10 centimeters, it is usually quite difficult to perform accurate measurements, especially in the case of transistor amplifiers. This paper covers some techniques that can be used to obtain performance data and to construct practical amplifiers for gain and noise figure measurements. As is the case with most circuit techniques, an impedance bridge is absolutely essential."
"With the advent of FCC-approved stereophonic FM broadcasting, measurement techniques are required to evaluate the performance of radio sets receiving such programming. Some test procedures to obtain such measurements are formally presented in this report. The described measurements concern: Stereophonic subcarrier regeneration characteristics, separation and frequency response, harmonic distortion, 38 kc/s-subharmonic intermodulation distortion, selectivity of pilot subcarrier extraction, SCA crosstalk, adequacy of ultrasonic filtering, behavior of stereophonic-reception indicator, I-F feedback, signal-to-noise characteristics, and pilot signal “crushing”."
"During the past nine (9) years approximately 33,000 Sylvania tubes have been life tested in TV receivers produced by all major American manufacturers. These tests, which have been conducted for 1,500 hours at 130-volts line, disclose that receiving tube reliability has improved significantly over the years."
"The trend in television receiver design continues to be toward reducing the tube complement while maintaining or surpassing present quality levels of reception. The use of higher gain tubes in video IF stages can result in two-stage IF performance approaching that obtained with three stages of IF amplification. Types 6JK6 and 6JL6 are complementary miniature T-5½ pentodes designed primarily for two-stage IF applications. The 6JL6 is a semi-remote cutoff tube for the gain controlled stage(s), while the 6JK6 is a sharp cutoff tube for the fixed gain stage. Both types utilize frame-grid construction giving a more efficient tube with vastly improved Gm. This paper discusses the characteristics of these new tube types and the design and performance of a two-stage IF amplifier."
"A theoretical investigation of the cause of UHF snivets from horizontal-sweep amplifiers in television receivers indicates that oscillations of space-charge concentrations will occur at frequencies that are well in the UHF Band. In many cases tube designs can be modified to avoid radiation without changing the basic tube characteristics."
"As you have just heard, a theoretical approach to tube design cannot be relied upon to make better tubes from the standpoint of Barkhausen oscillations. A test is necessary to evaluate experimental tubes. While other methods have been tried, the test which we will describe has been found to be very simple and yet effective. This method requires only two pieces of equipment which most laboratories already have available. Although simple to set up and use, this test can be of value to any who are concerned in any way with Barkhausen oscillations."
"This paper describes the requirements for developing video security systems for the new Pay-TV entertainment medium, and the specific design parameters necessary to comply with the FCC Standards and Bell System Practices, where the facilities of A. T.& T. are employed. Techniques of how the picture and/or sound are held secure, so that the entertainment offered will be available only to those willing to pay, and methods for reliable periodic collection of money for entertainment, as well as determining accurately each day how many subscribers purchased each program, are described to the extent that the designer will understand the concepts he must employ in approaching the end goals of effective video security and reliable billing. How the designer is responsive to the commercial requirements of the quality entertainment producers of Pay-TV and the Pay-TV operators who want to make the entertainment available only to those subscribers who indicate their willingness to pay is presented in a practical format showing actual design practices. This report defines and references the industry's sophisticated approaches, but clearly indicates that a video and/or audio security system for Pay-TV need not meet the difficult requirements of a military security system; however, it must minimize the theft of the scrambled broadcast or coaxial subcarrier transmission to a degree which will assure that the system be commercially successful."
"The advantages of a non-reciprocal parametric amplifier over conventional types are manifest. Perturbations in signal source characteristics no longer degrade stability and power gain. For this reason, conventional paramps require circulators. But circulators are noisy, temperature sensitive, and complicate any attempts to cool the paramp cryogenically. To overcome these difficulties, this paper discusses the theory of non-reciprocity and applies it to two single-varactor paramps. One paramp operates in a CW mode, the other is super-regenerative. Both units will (a) provide down-conversion and (b) accommodate signal frequencies which exceed the nominal value of the pump. Design constraints and performance characteristics are discussed."
"Vacuum Tubes. The earliest practical generation of high voltage by rectification was provided by vacuum tubes. In fact, the discovery of the significance of the vacuum tube itself was related to its one way conduction of electrons emitted from a hot filament. The use of hard vacuum tubes and the more recently developed mercury vapor and ionized gas tubes have in common certain difficulties which still hamper designers. One such common difficulty is caused by the use of a hot cathode to supply electrons, either to conduct the current directly, as in hard vacuum tubes, or to start conduction in mercury vapor or a low pressure gas. The filament supplies required to sustain cathode temperatures reduce overall efficiency, increase the heat to be dissipated by the rectifier, and add considerable bulk to a high voltage power supply. The requirements for insulation and/or isolation for the operation above ground potential of the filament supply required by bridge circuits and voltage multipliers as well as the unwieldly shape and nature of the tube makes it difficult if not impossible to suppress corona. Other problems are high forward impedance, especially for hard vacuum types, difficulty of cascading units for higher voltages, time lag for filament warm up, and limited service life. On the other hand, they are readily available in a wide variety of designs, have a low initial cost, can stand off high voltage, obviating the necessity of series strings when voltages are not too high, are without any troublesome recovery phenomena, and have the ability when properly designed to stand a reasonable amount of abuse."
"A new kind of electrostatic microphone which uses a foil electret between the electrodes Is described. The foil electret Is a solid dielectric material, metallized on one side, which has been prepolarlzed In an electrostatic field at an elevated temperature. The use of an electret eliminates the need of an external de blas. The capacitance of the electret microphone (about 60 pF cm2) Is considerably higher than that of air gap systems. Consequently, for the same frequency response, an amplifier with lower Input Impedance can be used for the electret microphone. The sensitivity of the microphone depends largely on the surface charge of the electret. Sensitivities of typical systems are between −50 and −60 dBV for a sound pressure level of 1 ubar. The free field frequency response Is within ±3 dB from 50 to 15000 cps If the microphone Is terminated by 5 MΩ. The sensitivity of the electret microphone has been measured for a period of more than a year. Over this period, the sensitivity has not changed more than ±1 dB."
"More than 1200 schools in 6 midwestern states are participating in airborne educational television, now in its 3rd year. Experience has confirmed the system operating parameters chosen and experience has dispelled skepticism regarding aircraft and equipment reliability. The Federal Communications Commission has now been asked to make the service permanent and to allow the transmission of six rather than two channels to fulfill additional educational needs. Studies disclose that 33 airborne stations can provide the United States with more educational services than 900 ground stations, and at less than half the cost. Further economy could be achieved by adapting the system to other purposes, in the national interest."
"Mathematical models of thermal and shot noise characteristics of transistors are adequate for the determination of the optimum operating point and source impedance for the mid-frequency region. However, in the case of 1/f noise, which occurs at low frequencies and has a spectral distribution proportional to 1/fn, models presently available do not describe the phenomenon sufficiently for practical design purposes. This paper describes an experimental approach to the determination of optimum operating point and source impedance for transistor circuits in applications where l/f noise predominates. Results of a number of tests which measure the noise spectrum as a function of operating point and source impedance are described. Results of such tests are presented as parametric plots of noise factor versus frequency, and conclusions are drawn as to the choice of parameters for optimum noise performance at low frequencies. A description of the special measurement techniques is included. A procedure is developed for rapid determination of the entire noise spectrum of a transistor for practical design purposes."
"As the gap in a magnetic recording head is made smaller a point is reached where the gap cannot supply adequate bias field for undistorted low frequency response without erasing the high frequencies. In the X-field head a vertical component of magnetization is superposed on the conventional semicircular pattern at the head-gap, to give a field which has more rapid decay at the trailing edge and at the same time has a more uniform intensity through the thickness of the tape coating. A new X-field design overcomes objections to previous models, and can be produced economically."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The fantastic current rate of growth of the science of electronics poses problems for both the young engineer entering the field and the mature engineer. The mature engineer must learn new technologies, new methods, even a new language if he is to remain creative in a constantly changing scientific world. The young engineer emerging from the University will find that the wide range of fundamental concepts studied in school leave many gaps to be filled before he has full understanding of his field of specialization."
"This paper attempts to describe the major factors which enter into the design of an in Jection locked oscillator. Basic principles of oscillators, crystals and injection lock are briefly discussed. From them a design procedure is suggested and a configuration is developed that successfully meets the requirements of commercial color television receivers."
"As Giacoletto stated in the summary of a paper (1): \"A parallel tuned circuit periodically connected to a source of linear direct current energy is fundamental to a large group of energy conversion circuits.\" (1) (R.C.A. Review Vol. XIII 1952: \"Parallel Tuned Circuit Periodically Switched to Direct Current Source\")"
"The characteristics of the gate controlled switch, a four-layer, solid state switching device are briefly described and shown to be highly compatible with horizontal television scanning requirements."
"The electrical characteristics of unipolar field-effect transistors (FET's) and metal-oxide semiconductor transistors (MOST's) are analogous to those of vacuum tubes. Such characteristics suggest using these devices in the r-f stage of an a-m automobile radio to reduce age power requirements and to obtain better cross-modulation performance than is possible with r-f stages using bipolar junction transistors. FET's and MOST's are particularly attractive compared to vacuum tubes because they share with bipolar junction transistors the favorable advantages of small size and low power requirements. It is likely that these or similar devices will eventually be mass-produced for use in automobile radios and other consumer products, particularly since they are readily incorporated into integrated circuits which are becoming inexpensive enough to be attractive in entertainment applications."
"This paper describes a high gain transistor IF amplifier-discriminator using new techniques for reducing direct and harmonic feedback. Intermediate Frequency amplifier designs with gains an order of magnitude greater than are presently realized are available employing these techniques. The primary advantage is that full limiting can be guaranteed on all receivers regardless of variations in manufacturing procedures and components."
"A common complaint about FM transistor front-ends has been their lack of ability to handle large signals, both desired and undesired. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss factors causing the problem and to describe means used at Oak Manufacturing Co. to substantially increase the dynamic range of such devices."
"A balanced detector circuit of improved efficiency for demodulation of an FM stereophonic signal using a single bilateral transistor is discussed. The detector has the feature of an equal level circuit for stereophonic and monaural reception. It is shown that a slight modification from the ideal case makes it possible to accommodate large variations in the forward and reverse characteristics of the transistor such that an inexpensive alloy junction transistor can be used. Matrixing is achieved by an in-phase composite stereo signal which does not require a phase inverter. Performance data are given."
"Recent legislation that U.S. television receivers must have an all channel capability, has provided a great stimulus to the enhancement of design for all aspects of UHF tuning. This paper will concern itself with one facet of this general product improvement program, that is, the optimization of drive mechanisms."
"The circuitry of the popular 140V B+ television receivers requires C.R. Tubes capable of delivering bright and sharp pictures with reduced high voltage and video drive. In addition, wide angle deflection must be accomplished with reduced scanning power and without deflection defocusing or shadow problems. Tubes shall be reliable and have long life even under adverse operating conditions."
"The raster outline produced on a CRT screen by receiver deflection currents and modulation is greatly affected by parameters other than those characterizing the deflection yoke or the tube. Several systems capable of providing independent evaluation of the deflection yoke performance have come into use. Among these are \"idealized\" sweep arrangements, in which interfering and secondary effects common to receiver chassis have been minimized, systems which display only one of the raster sides at a time, and displays in which the raster outline is gradually developed by the application of complex synchronized waveforms to the winding systems representing the two axes. This paper describes a method and the equipment necessary to produce a raster outline, in the form of a continuous trace, by relatively simple means, using deflection currents of readily duplicable waveforms which permit constant and direct metering. The arrangement requires no external sync or video signal, does not need switching, is free from transients, and displays the entire raster outline plus a horizontal reference axis. The mode of operation is such that only standard picture tubes are required for the display to be evaluated."
"This paper discusses several experimental closed circuit TV prototype units intended for consumer applications. It concludes with a detailed circuit description of the unit believed to be most practical for home use. The equipment described is fully transistorized, with the preferred unit using silicon types for all but one function."
"General equations are developed for the accurate determination of the response for multistage amplifiers with limited feedback using 2 and 4 terminal networks. These general equations are used to analyze the response of amplifiers with single synchronously tuned circuits and amplifiers with critically coupled synchronously tuned circuits. The conditions for maximum stable gain are determined. The equations are applicable to amplifiers of any type."
"This paper covers the development of an integrated solid state amplifier from initial considerations for using such a device up to the completion of the first integrated amplifier."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Thank you, and good evening, ladies and gentlemen. You have had a long day, have participated in considerable good fellowship, have had a large meal, and, I suspect, are all ready to doze in front of your TV set. So, let's tune in the show on channel 1980. The commercials are intriguing. For instance, the XYZ Electronic Service Company is plugging its complete inventory of replacement modules for home electronic appliances and its 24-hour centralized automatic sensing system. They guarantee to have replacement modules installed in any appliance the same day the original failed without your having to take any action-and in many cases without your knowing anything was ever wrong."
"This paper describes the development of a circuit which stabilizes television intermediate carrier frequencies, without the aid of feedback or servo systems, to the accuracy of a crystal-controlled oscillator yet allows tuner oscillator frequency variations of the order of + 1.25 mc. Design requirements are discussed, some practical circuit details are given and results achieved are outlined."
"The new RCA-25AP22 25-inch rectangular 90-degree shadow-mask color picture tube represents a basic advancement in the art of picture-tube development. The result of an extensive developmental program, the 25AP22 features the new look in screen shape and shorter over-all length, with no sacrifice in the performance potential and reliability features established by the earlier RCA 21-inch 70-degree color tubes. The development of a tube having a new shape or increased picture size is, in itself, a relatively simple accomplishment. Of far greater complexity is the design and development of a new tube type having these features, as well as high performance and reliability, together with economics of manufacture. Part I of this paper discusses the innovations made in the design and geometry of the 25AP22. These improvements include a new bulb design, a four-point mask-support system, and an electron-gun structure having a reduced size. These advances, coupled with the improved efficiency of the RCA all-sulphide screen described in Part II, made the 25AP22 an outstanding contribution to the color television industry."
"Regulation of the high voltage in a color TV receiver has been accomplished with either a shunt regulator or by controlling the bias on the horizontal output tube. Although the shunt regulator provides excellent regulation, it has several drawbacks."
"Failure of transistor class B output stages can occur when adverse conditions cause the output transistors to operate beyond their intended limits. This note describes a practical protection circuit which limits current flow from the power supply to the output transistors and thus protects the class B stage against the damaging effects of voltage surges, shorts, or other adverse conditions."
"A new tube, consisting of a dual control and a sharp cut-off pentode in the same envelope has been developed. Development of the tube, the Y-1187, makes possible a one-tube, two-stage, IF amplifier that attains the same performance level as most three-stage IF amplifiers that are used in black and white television receivers at considerably less cost. The input section of the Y-1187 is similar to the 6GK7, while the output section is similar to the 6DK6. The problem of interelectrode capacitances that results from placing two such high performance tubes in the same envelope is minimized by applying special shielding techniques within the tube. Experimental results indicate that the Y-1187 when operated as a two-stage IF amplifier, yields excellent gain, response, and AGC characteristics. Some of the primary features of the tube are: 1. Low-cost construction. 2. High-transconductance and low-capacitanee in each section 3. AGC applied to suppressor grid of the input section, which allows control grid bias to remain reasonably constant. 4. Additional gain obtained by the elimination of the need for unbypassed cathode resistors, and by the use of a quadrature-boost circuit. 5. Circuit costs and space requirements reduced by the elimination of one tube socket and a portion of the associated circuitry and circuit components. The writers wish to acknowledge the assistance of W.F. Cullen of the Tube Department, and W.P. Kimker, formerly of the Tube Department, without whom this paper could not have been prepared."
"From the early days of commercial television to the present time, only a limited variety of vertical-scanning circuits have been introduced. The trend has been to use dual triode circuits, often in intricate and critical arrangements that required high-precision components. As a result, vertical circuits have been relatively difficult to maintain, and the over-all costs of these circuits have been high. These conditions still persist, although to a much lesser extent, in the modified multivibrator type of vertical circuit that is most widely used today. This paper describes a self-oscillating vertical circuit that is simpler and more reliable than the present multivibrator type and that has substantially improved performance characteristics. The increased simplicity and reliability will greatly ease the maintenance problem and substantially reduce circuit costs."
"This paper describes an extremely easy to manufacture high quality UHF tuner. The tuner is currently lower in cost than other high quality tuners, and design emphasis was placed on years of completely trouble-free operation."
"Within the past year, transistors have been used in increasing numbers in the oscillator stages of uhf television tuners. This application not only represents the introduction of the first transistors in television receivers; it also indicates that transistors capable of good uhf and vhf performance can be mass-produced at consumer prices. Both germanium and silicon devices which are suitable for use in the oscillator function are now commercially available. The question arises as to the relative merits of amplifier versions of these devices for uhf and vhf amplifier service. Until recently, silicon transistors had not been considered for use in rf amplifier stages in consumer applications because of high noise figures or high cost, the former not being particularly significant in oscillator service. (Although silicon n-p-n uhf low-noise amplifiers have been available for some time, their use in consumer products has been restricted by their high cost.) This paper describes a new n-p-n silicon uhf-vhf transistor, RCA Dev. No. TA2503, having electrical characteristics tailored for consumer amplifier applications at frequencies up to 900 megacycles. Gain and noise through the useful frequency range are discussed, and relative performance is given for various vhf and uhf applications."
"The home entertainment television receiver contains \"processing\" circuitry that receives the demodulated video signal and produces from it proper signals for driving both the picture tube and the loudspeaker, as well as synchronizing signals for controlling the sweep circuits, and automatic gain control (age) for the receiver. As shown in the block diagram of Fig. 1, this circuitry consists of the video amplifier, audio demodulator, audio amplifier, age, and sync separator. Since the video signal passes through the video amplifier to other portions of the processing circuitry, careful design of this amplifier makes it possible to simplify the remaining circuits without sacrificing performance. The video amplifier described in this paper overcomes most of the objectionable features of more conventional d-c and a-c coupled amplifiers. In addition, it causes transistor capability to be more fully utilized and thus provides better performance and larger safety margins."
"This paper will describe the design and performance of a 4 stage transistor I. F. amplifier, which was developed to replace a 3 stage frame — grid I.F. strip in an existing receiver design. The subject matter was originally presented at the National Electronics Conference, October 19, 1964, and published in the Conference Proceedings. This edition has been revised to include subsequent modifications and additional design data."
"Every color television receiver requires a color-killer circuit in order to eliminate spurious color patterns during the absence of the color burst signal and to prevent the admission of noise through the color channel to the picture tube. This color-killer circuit has to be arranged so that it functions properly in the presence of heavy noise since color information is also useful at low signal-to-noise ratios. Since the color burst signal is only transmitted during a colorcast, it is chosen as a reliable reference signal which actuates the killer tube. This tube, in turn, disables the color bandpass during a monochrome (no burst) transmission and turns it on again when color is transmitted."
"Color television pictures consist of black-and-white pictures to which color information is added in the form of \"hue\" and \"saturation\". A complete investigation of the need for controls to adjust \"hue\" and \"saturation\" (usually called chroma) therefore requires a careful study of possible errors in the whole color TV process from the original scene to the human brain. Even if all the vagaries of picture generation, transmission, and viewing were exactly controllable, it might be economical and desirable to provide such manual controls to compensate for small variations in the color TV process, thereby permitting wider tolerances in the many steps required to produce good color pictures."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE LAST ARTICLE in the last issue (Gerald Gordon, “The Problem of Assessing Scientific Accomplishment: A Potential Solution,” December, 1963 TRANSACTIONS) dealt with a critical aspect of the over-all problem of assessing the role of Research and Development in the firm. The argument goes something like this: if one believes that “good” R & D can contribute to the “success” of a company, then, in order to take advantage of this relationship, one must be able to recognize both good R & D and successful company performance. As indicated in the editorial of the last issue, the measurement of R & D accomplishment is still an elusive goal."
"Despite the growing emphasis placed on research these days, it must be kept in mind that, unless it is properly directed, there is no guarantee that will be effective. Today, research management calls especially for examining the management of the total resources of research to achieve fundamental aims. Whether in the weapons industry to preserve the defense of our country, or in the industrial and commercial areas to preserve our economic, material, and cultural position, research management has become a survival issue. Using his own company as an example, the author emphasizes the point that the key to research management is, first of all, a deliberate determination of key strategies designed to achieve really major goals, followed by the pursuit of R & D tactics aimed specifically at the selected strategies."
"The following study presents and tests a model designed to explain the R&D investment decision of firms, tries to explain the role of certain variables after attempting to isolate the effects of other variables that are not specified in the model and, finally, attempts to estimate departure from the desired level of R & D expenditure and the coefficients of important variables that cause deviations from the level. The main variables discussed are profits, sales changes, expected sales changes, and expected capacity changes. The statistical method used to estimate the parameters of the variables is multiple regression analysis. On the basis of the analysis, several hypotheses are proposed and discussed in relation to alternative hypotheses."
"The results of a field test of a procedure for evaluating research projects is reported in this paper. The procedure, based on what is termed an expected value model, considers the following decision elements: 1) the environment of the problem, 2) the decision maker, 3) his objectives, and 4) his alternatives. The decision maker's alternatives, in this case a number of potential research projects, are evaluated in the light of his objectives. The result of the procedure is a ranking of potential projects in terms of their expected values."
"The individual's age in relation to scientific achievement was examined with scientists and engineers in eleven university, industrial, and government research laboratories. A series of bimodal curves appeared, peaking sooner in research-oriented than development-oriented labs. The data suggest that the effects of age may be modified by both external and internal “research climates.”"
"An approach to program control is described which is oriented to Systems Management. The following topics are discussed: total program control, systems management, program cost control, PERT network activity pricing, expenditure rate curves in cost planning and control, frequency of cost reporting, technical performance and program schedules, and project status reporting."
"This paper explores the role of the government in fostering the use of network scheduling and control techniques. Specifically, it analyzes the volume, quality, and content of the publications through which information on critical path scheduling techniques, primarily PERT, is made available. The results of this analysis indicate that significant government publications on critical path scheduling method did not begin to emerge until two years after its development, and that then the technique was discussed almost solely in terms of application. PERT is generally discussed as a computerized system used primarily on R & D projects. Insofar as the literature provides an accurate picture of the application of PERT, this study indicates that its use has not been extended beyond the industries which have been forced by the military to use it. A bibliography of relevant government publications is included."
"This volume is the first publication resulting from a three-year research project at the Harvard Business School on the development of advanced weapons. It is based upon comprehensive historical case studies of twelve weapon system programs and seven commercial product developments, and upon more limited investigations of several specific research questions."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE ANALYTICAL LITERATURE on PERT and related methods for planning, scheduling and controlling R, D, and E continues to pile up. Criticisms and suggestions for modifications and re-evaluation are generally aimed at two aspects: the underlying assumptions and the practical limitations. These TRANSACTIONS have carried many articles on both aspects in the past few years. See, for example, the following issues: September and December, 1960; March, 1961; March, September, and December 1962; March, June, September, and December, 1963. The prominent role of articles related to this subject in the TRANSACTIONS stems from the possibility that a whole new concept of project and program planning and control is currently being formulated. It is still in the category of “possibility” because the conditions under which this new concept was developed were unusual and directly tied to military R, D, and E. It remains to be seen which aspects of the new concept will become a routine part of R, D, and E management in commercial as well as government projects."
"The extension of PERT and Critical Path planning models for analysis of cost-time trade-offs and resource allocation is discussed. Various scheduling algorithms with and without resource constraints are noted and compared as reported in the literature. Key assumptions and some practical limitations are analyzed. Recommendations for further research are offered."
"The process of solution identification is defined and structured as one of the four key components of the R & D planning process. Within the process some workable concepts of mobility are derived relating to the time factor in military operations. Data for the ballistic projectile hardware family are used to illustrate mobility capabilities. The counter guerrilla strategy of reaction to guerrilla actions is discussed and illustrative mobility requirements resulting from the strategy are displayed. A counter guerrilla system is deduced functionally and its mobility component is highlighted. Finally, the system feasibility test is described for the counter guerrilla mission, both for single targets and target complexes."
"The reliability program plan outlined herein represents what is considered a minimum program for an R & D laboratory or industrial company. If a requirement exists for an R & D laboratory to set up a reliability program, it should determine the desirability of having an overall reliability program which encompasses all projects or applying this reliability program to individual projects as required by military requirements. Projects are defined here as tasks or programs contracted or subcontracted to the R & D laboratory and where the R & D laboratory must provide certain defined outputs, e.g., a computer system. The latter approach warrants serious consideration since it will allow the laboratory's operation to be free of the unnecessary constraints a reliability program imposes."
"A Matrix organization which seeks to achieve the advantages of both functional and project organization, is described. In the Matrix organization a Program Management group is set up with the purpose of getting a job done by drawing upon the capabilities of functional or line groups, including engineering and support services. In effect, Program Management becomes a quasi-permanent line group. Individual staff members are temporarily assigned to a particular program and upon its completion either return to home base (or “Capability Centers”) or may remain in Program Management to work on new programs. The implementation and effects of such a program are discussed."
"The Project Monitoring Device (PMD) is a computer-based system for use in the production and maintenance of a work plan and as an aid in making a proposal."
"IN RECENT YEARS a number of conferences have been held on various aspects of Research, Development, and Engineering. Most have been directed at practicing managers of R, D and E activities. A few, however, have been conferences among people studying R, D and E as a research subject — research-on-research. The two conferences mentioned below were of this type. Although there was a slight overlap in participation (two people gave papers at both conferences), the foci and orientations were quite different."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IN THE PAST FIVE years since the 1959 change in editorship of these TRANSACTIONS, many references have been made in editorials to the increasing research activity focused on the management of research, development, and engineering — an activity often referred to as “research-on-research.” Many of the articles published in the past five years have come from such efforts by people in a wide variety of disciplines and applied fields, such as: Sociology, Psychology, Economics, Mathematics, Engineering, Business Administration, Operations Research, etc."
"A varied research effort, with a social-behavioral science orientation, conducted within a government R and D laboratory is discussed. The nature of the research, which includes studies of group inter-relationships and processes, criteria of research performance and creativity, organizational structures and environments, and the relationship of these to the management of research and development, is described. Problems of applying research findings (in-house research as well as findings reported in the recent literature); the role of the researcher; the use of outside consultants; etc., are considered."
"In an effort to determine the feasibility of extending and broadening the base of scientific research within this large decentralized manufacturing company, a comprehensive investigation was carried on. Teams were used to implement individual studies in the operating components of the company — with emphasis placed upon including scientific people in these teams — while a full-time staff carried on the overall research project. Benefits from, and factors influencing, research were isolated and examined. Some recommendations were made for the accomplishment and utilization of the scientific research necessary to meet the business objectives within this company."
"This article presents a survey of the M.I.T. program of research and education related to the organization and management of large-scale, government and/or industry research and development. Six institutional levels of research and development activities are being investigated: a) national level; b) governmentindustry interface: the contracting system; c) laboratory, research center, or R and D organization; d) project level; e) research groups; and f) individual researchers. In addition, a brief discussion of the education program in R and D management is included."
"Until recently most applications of organization theory to the industrial firm have involved the more routine activities such as production and clerical operations. In the past decade there have been increasing applications in the R & D area. At Northwestern, the joint interest in organization theory and the management of R & D has led to a program of organizational field studies in which an attempt is being made to derive and test theories about organizational behavior in the R & D context. Examples of several current projects in this program are discussed."
"Some of the general activities of COLRAD are described. It is contrasted with other organizations active in the field of R & D Management. Its main emphasis is on research and dissemination of current research results. Three current study projects are described."
"The author enumerates a number of major studies carried out or supported by the National Science Foundation in the areas of industrial research and development management, and economics. He describes the two major categories of these studies: 1) surveys of Research and Development expenditures and manpower conducted by the Foundation itself and 2) contracts and grants given for studies independently pursued on the subject. Some applications of data from these activities are described."
"At the Abbott Laboratories, various studies have been made for the evaluation of Research and Development. We have shown some of the approaches used and commented on some of the current activities. In the final analysis all such approaches must be considered as tools or aids to R and D management planning, and not as automatic decision makers or sole criterion. Only people make decisions no matter how sophisticated their aids. However, we feel that evaluation of R and D can significantly improve basis for decisions for R and D managements."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE PAPER BY Baker and Pound reports another “state-of-the-art” survey in the field of the economics of R, D, and E. An earlier one, by Horowitz (June, 1963), surveyed the “state-of-the-art” in the evaluation of the returns from R and D."
"A review of the literature on R and D project selection and an analysis of interview data suggests that there is a lack of testing and use of the methods proposed. Several OR-MS methods are identified and their current status is indicated. Three representative procedures are examined in some detail. It is argued that both a lack of testing concerning feasibility and shortcomings of the models themselves, help to explain why the methods have not been used. Some of these shortcomings are identified and discussed. Implications for future research are presented."
"A discussion of how PurOlator Products manages its R and D functions is the core of the paper. Research management in the diversified company is broken down into four central areas: project selection; project administration; research personnel; and, communication of research results. Suggestions for an efficient research operation are included."
"This paper describes how the Program Evaluation Review Technique (PERT) was developed in the X-20 program and how it was used in managing that program. The X-20 System Program Office (SPO), Aeronautical Systems Division (ASD), organized and directed the overall X-20 PERT effort of both Government and industry participants and employed a system of discrete detailed networks which collectively covered the entire program. The data from these “reporting” networks was computer integrated into a total program PERT output."
"A method of scheduling projects with varied resource constraints is suggested. It is intended for use on nearly any computer, and can be modified easily for specific problem needs. Six steps are explained and sample schedules are included."
"The effect of prior experience on success in solving discrete problems was studied by comparing the behavior of eight laboratories in two R and D proposal competitions. The findings show that prior experience does not, by itself, influence the likelihood of achieving a correct solution. If the prior experience is limited to a technique which is appropriate to the present problem, successful solution is almost certain. But prior experience with a technique which is not appropriate usually results in an unsuccessful solution. In the latter case, if more than one alternative approach is considered the probability of achieving a successful solution is increased from 0 to 0.5."
"Planning for facilities in a field in which the “state-of-the-art” is rapidly changing presents many problems. This article suggests methods which will help in the selection and evaluation of facilities in this climate. It also describes the development of a typical facility growth curve which brought some interesting facts into focus — for example, the contribution of basic research tools to new facilities. Ways are also described in which this typical growth curve can be used to help plan for new facilities, for example, to decide whether a new type facility should be started or a current but larger facility built; whether or not test time should be purchased while evaluating new designs, etc."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The Editor wishes to express his sincere appreciation to the people listed below for their help in reviewing manuscripts for the TRANSACTIONS over the past five years."
"The author listings include title of paper, page number, month, and year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new microwave communication system for centralized train traffic control, utilizing TE01 mode propagating circular waveguide as a transmission line is discussed. A new microwave communication system for The system was developed for control of 100 ultra-high-speed trains on a railroad 500 km in length. The aluminum waveguide of 132-mm ID, with measured attenuation of 2.0 db/km on 7500-Mc band, with a helical waveguide as a mode filter at 100 m intervals is laid alongside the railroad. Signal transmission to the running trains is achieved through directional couplers in the circular waveguide and auxiliary waveguides for radiation, without signal dropout. Radio equipment for the trains and radio repeater features special simultaneous amplification of incoming and outgoing signals by the same TWTs, and varactor diode multipliers. The system consists of a total of 600 telephone channels to provide 6 telephone channels to each train, to be used for high-speed data transmission and telephones. A new microwave communication system for Experiments made with a waveguide run of 1 km in length laid alongside the Hachiko Line of the Japanese National Railways have proved its capability for centralized train traffic control. Codes transmitted at speed of 2000 bauds during the test train running had no error, and a total of 573,000 characters was transmitted. Good TV transmission was also attained."
"The first major radio program of the Federal Telecommunications System has been the installation of an extended-coverage VHF Mobile Telephone System for evaluation of the common-user concept of reducing the number of frequencies required by several users by timesharing. Subscribers are provided three-channel full-duplex dial-up service, with such features as direct dialing of any other mobile, as well as any telephone, in the Federal Telecommunications System, automatic busy-channel lockout, manual operator access to all three channels, automatic calling channel reverting, and repetitive ringing to the mobiles. Coverage is provided over 40 percent of the State of Massachusetts and parts of the States of Connecticut, New Hampshire and Rhode Island. For the pilot study, 40 vehicles belonging to 15 separate users will share the system. After system evaluation, the number of channels will be increased to allow system expansion for coverage of 90 percent of the New England area, with a corresponding increase in the number of vehicles and users. Federal Telecommunications System programs of the future include the installation of systems in other areas to study common-user inter-city emergency systems and extended coverage multipurpose telephone/dispatch systems on a common-user basis."
"The design and performance of a series of three base station antennas employing the radiator-suppressor concept are presented. Two are for the 450–470 MC band, one having 7 db gain and the other 10 db gain. The third is a 6 db gain unit for 150–162 MC. The two medium gain units consist of end fed arrays, while the high gain unit is center fed."
"This paper describes the application of the RCA 2N2857 (uhf) and 2N2708 (vhf) transistors in the rf-amplifier, mixer, local-oscillator, and if-amplifier stages of a 450-megacycle communications receiver. Block diagrams and circuit schematics are presented and described, the noise figure of the system is calculated, impedance matching is discussed, and data on “overload” signals are presented. Design examples in terms of admittance parameters are given for the rf stages, and calculations based on transmission-line relationships are made for the tuned circuits of the receiver. Receiver sensitivity, selectivity, and automatic gain control are also discussed. The 2N2857 and 2N2708 transistors are two of the most recent low-noise silicon planar epitaxial transistors developed by RCA for uhf and vhf applications. These transistors are packaged in a four-lead case which has the same dimensions as the TO-18 package, and their collectors are isolated. The fourth lead of the package, which is attached to the case, reduces feedback capacitance and rf radiation when its free end is connected to circuit ground."
"The EIA Land Mobile Section decided to make a study which would clearly show the usage of the land mobile portion of the frequency spectrum. It requested the Federal Communications Commission to allow it to make copies of all of their electronic computer frequency assignment cards for the purpose of a computer study of the channel loading. The FCC gave its approval in June of this year and the study began. This paper describes the format of that study."
"Extremely rapid growth of the 27 mc Citizens Band service has resulted in extreme congestion of the allocated 23 channels running from 26.965 mc through 27.255 mc. The majority of these 23 channels are spaced 10 kc and to date, standard amplitude modulated techniques have been employed utilizing 5 watts DC input to the plate circuit of the final RF amplifier stage. Transmission of full carrier and both sidebands is normal in this service. Since there is no reason to believe that additional frequencies will be allocated for the Citizens Band service, a better utilization of the allocated channels must come about if any appreciable expansion in the numbers of licensees is to take place over the next few years. The Mark SSB-27 Transceiver described here is capable of transmitting and receiving on either upper sideband or lower sideband with suppressed carrier on any 5 pre-determined channels of the 23 available. This in effect doubles the available number of channels in the Citizens Band service to 46 from the original 23 since tests have proved that the equipment is capable of providing communications for one system on the upper sideband of an allocated channel with simultaneous communication on an additional system utilizing the lower sideband of the same channel when mobile units of the two systems are operating within one mile of each other. Performance of this nature has been attained through the use of standard single sideband suppressed carrier techniques, excellent frequency stability with all frequency determining crystals contained in a temperature controlled oven, and the employment of a high quality 3 kc single sideband crystal lattice filter."
"Few businesses can successfully operate today without rapid communications, both internally and to the marketplace. This acceleration has gone hand in hand with the increase in mechanization of industry and will become even more important as automation takes a greater hold. To assist in the improvement of operating efficiency, close contact must be maintained with both supervisory and service people whose responsibility it is to see that no unexpected delays, work stoppages or shutdowns occur. These are people who are on the move: plant foremen and supervisors, plant engineers, maintenance and service crews, plant and machine repairmen and security forces. Immediate contact with them is now being kept by radio and inductive paging systems. An analysis of such systems is presented, and a new system is described which is built around a control which permits interconnection to a dial telephone branch exchange."
"This paper describes the design of a transistor frequency converter suitable for use in mobile communication receiver equipment. Two-port network theory is used to design a 250-Mc RF amplifier, a 250- to 60-Mc mixer, a 310-Mc local oscillator and a two-stage 60-Mc IF amplifier. Performance of silicon planar transistors are first predicted from calculations based on y parameters of these transistors and then compared with experimentally determined performance. The mathematical techniques used in the design of this circuitry are discussed in some detail. Basic design philosophy using terminal, rather than internal, parameters is introduced. Power gain and stability are described in terms of terminal admittance parameters and high frequency performance curves of a popular high frequency silicon transistor are presented. Finally, a transistor frequency converter system suitable for mobile communications equipment is discussed. In particular, the sensitivity, noise figure, selectivity and stability are developed. The over-all converter performance values are: Conversion Gain 65 db Bandwidth 4 Mc Noise Figure 6 db Image Rejection 25 db Temperature sensitivity data indicated that the local oscillator was most sensitive to temperature change and caused the over-all gain to vary from 62.5 db @ 5°C to 65 db at 25°C to 60 db @ 50°C. Center frequency changes (in the same order) were 57 Mc, 60 Mc and 65 Mc."
"Efficient use of multiple base stations for full coverage throughout a difficult terrain depends greatly on selection at dispatching points of proper receivers and transmitters. Considerable skill in manipulation of manual controls is required in order to avoid ambiguous switching combinations of facilities. Opportunities for errors are magnified when many mobile radio dispatching points and vehicles are involved. This paper describes a user-designed system which provides for automatic selection of both multiple receivers and transmitters."
"This paper discusses the requirements, circuit descriptions, and construction of a mobile radio developed for application in the Improved Mobile Telephone System (IMTS). IMTS is a mobile radio system which provides automatic two-way dialing telephone service with automatic channel selection. The mobile subscriber stations simulate, as nearly as possible, the telephone equipment available to a wire-line subscriber. The mobile radio described is an eleven-channel, full duplex, continuous duty radio and includes many features developed especially for application to the mobile telephone service. In addition to the equipment discussion, the basic philosophies unique to the design of equipment for this application are also discussed."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Our Radar Systems Department recently had need for a highly accurate solid-state IF compressive receiver where both phase and amplitude are maintained. Bill Cappadona briefly describes the technique implemented in meeting this need."
"Sediment cloud stirred up by the operation of the sampling arm of the French submersible Soucoupe, one of a class of free-swimming vehicles designed for exploration of the ocean bottom. To overcome this obstruction to visual observation, short-range high-resolution sonar equipment may be standard equipment for any vehicle used for manipulation on the sea floor. (See the article in this issue “Instrumenting the sea floor,” which starts on page 101.)"
"Progress in Telegraphy? “A great many people have an idea that there has been progress in telegraphy as well as other branches, but so far as the way lines are concerned I can speak from actual experience during the past summer, that they are in many cases just as bad or worse than they were twenty years ago. I have learned from some inquiries on the subject that the same care is not taken in keeping up the lines as was formerly the case. This matter of adjustment at way stations comes home to every man, for the reason that all may have occasion some time during our lives to send telegrams to small stations, and it is a fact that very often there are annoying delays that are accounted for by companies on the plea of bad weather. That is taken as something that cannot be prevented; it is an act of God. But here we see a device for preventing a large proportion of this trouble, which, to my own knowledge, has been in practical operation for some time.”"
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Taking part in the 12th Annual Engineering Management Conference which was held September 17 to 18 in Cleveland are: (Seated, left to right) J. R. Bright, Harvard University, Ernst Weber, president, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, and Brooks Earnest, president, Fenn College. (Standing) Jerome Fox, chairman of the 1964 conference; Ted Marble, chairman of the 1965 conference; and C. L. Linder, IEEE President."
"Members engaged in applications engineering now have the opportunities for professional identity and individual participation offered by an IEEE Group. Charter membership in the new Industry and General Applications Group is now open."
"The IEEE Awards Board has announced that it is now ready to receive nominations for the 1965–1966 awards, medals, and prizes offered by IEEE. Every member of IEEE is privileged to make, or participate in the making of, these nominations. The Awards Board has urged the general exercise of this privilege in order to ensure that these awards shall fulfill their important purpose."
"The Computer Group of IEEE will hold a National Conference on the Impact of Batch-Fabrication on Future Computers, April 6–8, in Los Angeles at the Thunderbird Hotel."
"An enthusiastic assembly of 400 engineers from 16 countries attended the 8th Convention of the Pan American Federation of American Engineering Societies (UPADI) in Venezuela, August 16 to 22. The United States was represented by a delegation of 21 from Engineers Joint Council. They participated in the various phases of the program under the leadership of R. H. Tatlow III, vice president of EJC, as chairman of the delegation and W. E. Lobo as vice chairman. EJC delegates presiding at sessions were: R. A. Morgen, Education; S. A. Korff, IGY; Herbert Vogel, Development Plans; and R. B. Knight, Space."
"The technical program for the fifth Annual Symposium on Switching Circuit Theory and Logical Design, to be held at Princeton, N.J., November 11–13, has been completed. Five technical sessions and a Wednesday evening banquet have been planned. The sponsors are the Switching Circuit Theory and Logical Design Committees of the IEEE Computer Group."
"The Cincinnati Section of IEEE, in cosponsorship with the Instrument Society of America, is currently planning the Electronics and Instrumentation Conference and Exhibit, scheduled for April 14 and 15 in Cincinnati, with the exhibits slated for the Cincinnati Gardens and the symposia for the Carrousel Inn."
"Papers that have not been previously published or presented are invited for the 15th annual meeting of the National Telemetering Conference, which will be held at the Shamrock Hilton Hotel, Houston, Tex., on April 13 to 15. As in the past, the conference is sponsored by IEEE, the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and the Instrument Society of America."
"The 16th annual Mid-American Electronics Conference (MAECON) will be held November 23 and 24 at the Continental Hotel in Kansas City, Mo. The theme of the conference is “Measurements and Instrumentation,” which has been adopted by MAECON as a continuing theme."
"W. S. Hill (F '50, L), manager of engineering recruiting, General Electric Company, New York, N.Y., was reelected president of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development at the 32nd annual meeting of ECPD held October 5 in New York."
"Prof. W. G. Dow, chairman of the Electrical Engineering Department of the University of Michigan, told the National Automotive Conference of IEEE that the automotive industry is approaching a new frontier of its own faster than most of the men setting its autopilot responses have yet realized. Professor Dow was the keynote speaker at the conference which was held September 22 in Detroit."
"The preprint volume of conference papers for the 1964 Joint Automatic Control Conference is now available and may be obtained from R. C. Placone, 1964 JACC, Stanford Electronics Laboratories, Stanford, Calif. The price of the publication is $20; checks should be made payable to the 1964 Joint Automatic Control Conference."
"Highlighting the 11th National Symposium on Reliability and Quality Control, to be held January 12–14 in Miami Beach, Fla., will be a special panel discussion, arranged to explore the relationships, problems, and procedures incident to satisfying contractual reliability requirements by big business and small business."
"The 3rd International Conference on Nonlinear Magnetics (INTERMAG) will be held April 21 to 23 in Washington, D.C., at the Sheraton-Park Hotel. Papers are particularly solicited in the following fields: computer magnetics, superconducting devices, magnetic recording, ferrite microwave devices, instrumentation and control, combined magnetic and semiconductor devices, and magnetic material properties."
"An edited machine translation of the Soviet bloc papers presented at the Symposium on Relay Systems and Finite Automata, held in Moscow in 1962, is now available at $7.50. The symposium was sponsored by the International Federation of Automatic Control."
"IEEE and the Optical Society are jointly sponsoring a Symposium on Optimization Techniques, which will take place April 21 to 23, 1965, on the campus of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa."
"The Reliability Training Conference, jointly sponsored by IEEE and the American Society for Quality Control, is conducting a training course during the week of November 29 to December 4 in Princeton, N.J., at the Princeton Inn."
"The 8th Annual Joint IEEE-ASME Railroad Conference will be held in Pittsburgh at the Penn Sheraton Hotel April 7–8. C. M. Hines will serve as chairman, and P. G. Lessmann as cochairman."
"The IEEE Executive Committee approved four Group Chapters at its meeting on September 23. The Group Chapters and the Sections to which they belong follow:"
"A total of 363 persons attended the Petroleum Industry Conference, August 24 to 26, in San Francisco. Of these, 275 were registered members and nonmembers. Delegates arrived from various parts of the United States and also from such distant points as Venezuela, The Hague, and Canada."
"Proceedings of the San Diego Symposium for Biomedical Engineering are available for the years 1962, 1963, and 1964."
"H. G. Asmus, a former director of administration and marketing manager for Auerbach Corporation, has been appointed executive director of the American Federation of Information Processing Societies of which IEEE is a member."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"The Technical Institute. Travel and conversation provide the belief that there is developing a considerable diversification in programs, objectives, and philosophy among the engineering schools of the United States. This diversity may not be a recent development, but I cannot believe it was true thirty-five years ago. Looking back at the sample of engineering graduates in my acquaintanceship at that time, I seem to recall a considerable uniformity in educational pattern and objectives — and the rather heterogeneous group of salesmen, designers, company presidents, and technicians that has resulted from that educational pattern."
"Research in the field of electroluminescence is resulting in increasingly efficient light sources specifically designed for area illumination. Of particular interest at this time is the growing use of electroluminescent display devices Light sources have evolved from the various types of torches and oil lamps of earliest times to the more familiar candles, kerosene lamps, and gas jets of recent memory. The era of modern lighting began well under 100 years ago as a result of the persistent efforts of Thomas A. Edison1 to replace gas lighting by electricity “to improve the illumination to such an extent as to meet all requirements of natural, artificial and commercial conditions.”"
"Reports indicate that at the end of 1963 about 1.5 million homes were electrically heated. Projected estimates show that the number will increase to 6 million in 1970, and to about 19 million by 1980 Electric heating is the fast-growing baby of “great expectations” in a competitive field that long has been ruled by the fossil fuels. In two principal regional areas of the United States — the West and the South — its growth has been phenomenal since 1960. This is a tribute to the low-cost electric power available in these geographic sections. But electric heating is regarded as a prodigal infant in the Midwest and Northeast where electric power rates are generally too high to give its systems a competitive run for its money."
"The oceanic abyss two to four miles below sea level is more forbidding than outer space. Nevertheless, experimentation is under way to explore and exploit this region, using both unmanned instruments and manned vehicles Although more than 70 per cent of the earth's crust is beneath the oceans, this portion of the earth is little known and scarcely used. Man has throughly explored most of the land areas of the earth — sometimes with great difficulty and at great risk — and has sailed for centuries on the surface of the oceans, but has yet to learn very much about that land directly beneath the keel of his ship."
"It is quite a blow to man's pride to admit that he will never be able to encounter the environment of more than half of this home planet's crust with anywhere near the intimacy with which he will some day experience outer space or even the crust of other planets. The oceanic abyss, lying from two to four miles below sea level, accounts for more than 50 per cent of the crustal area of the earth, and the hydrostatic pressure of up to 10 000 psi encountered at these depths creates a far more hostile environment than does the nearly perfect vacuum of outer space. Even if some day the hope generated by the wet lung experiments performed in the last few years on dogs gels into a capability that would permit man's body to be exposed directly to these extreme hydrostatic pressures, the seemingly mundane problem of maintaining body heat in the near-freezing deep ocean environment would be orders of magnitude more difficult than in the near absolute zero temperatures of outer space. At these high pressures, the efficient cellular insulation materials, which are available in a profusion of types, are ineffective, and the normally simple matter of interposing a thermal barrier between the human body and the surrounding water becomes a formidable problem."
"Essentially all the geophysical questions that are asked concerning land masses have counterparts on the ocean floor, and the same variables must be studied: the area which must be explored and mapped; the geology which must be learned; and temperature, heat flow, magnetic field, electric conductivity, gravity, winds (or water currents), response to pressure variations, seismic disturbances, etc., all of which must be measured."
"Antenna arrays exist in a wide variety of configurations, with the number of radiating elements ranging from two to several thousand. However, all are governed by the same fundamental principles, which are described in this article Contemporary antenna problems have stimulated renewed interest in the use of array-type antennas, in which a number of individual radiators are grouped together and coherently excited in some controlled manner. This type of antenna predates the application of reflector types in radio and radar applications; but the new interest, with emphasis on arrays of large numbers of elements, has provided the impetus for advances in our knowledge of the principles of arrays and the invention of new arraying techniques. It is the aim of this article to provide an exposition of the current state of the field."
"Engineers may associate PERT with large military programs and computers, but they should know that PERT can also be applied effectively to modest engineering tasks Although PERT (Program Evaluation and Review Technique) was successfully introduced in 1958 on the Polaris Weapons System Program and subsequently it and similar networking techniques were enthusiastically accepted in the management of the development phase of weapons systems programs, as well as within industries such as construction, we now observe a curious phenomenon. Many engineers, employed as project engineers either by large corporations on major programs or by small laboratories engaged in component or subsystem development, still question the effectiveness of PERT for their own use. Much of the cynicism that greets the technique can be traced, in part, to a lack of conviction on the part of engineers that PERT can be an effective planning and control technique for modest task applications as well as for large programs necessitating elaborate, computer-based applications."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Industrial Process Instrumentation. Instrumentation has been defined in many ways and a particularly good definition appears in the September 1964 issue of IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics and Control Instrumentation. In that issue, A. J. Hornfeck says, “Instrumentation may be defined as the technology of communicating with the physical process to obtain quantitative measurements of the behavior of the process and of using these measurements to understand and control the process.”"
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Please do not request copies of individual articles as they are not available."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department∗, 275 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N. Y. 10021. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"The Aluminaut, the world's first aluminum submarine, was launched on September 2 and has since been undergoing a test and research program which should last for several months. Conceived by J. Louis Reynolds, chairman of Reynolds International, Inc., and developed under his direction, the new submarine is designed to dive to a record depth of 15 000 feet. It was built for Reynolds by the General Dynamics Corporation's Electric Boat Division at Groton, Conn., which also executed the design details for the new craft."
"The incorporation of the laser as part of a commercially available measuring system has been announced by the Airborne Instruments Laboratory Division of Cutler-Hammer, Deer Park, N.Y."
"Within the ten years since its inception, the National Bureau of Standards Radio Standards Laboratory at Boulder, Colo., has taken its place as a leader in the development of frequency standards and their dissemination. This is evidenced by the history of the Laboratory as described during ceremonies marking its tenth anniversary in September."
"Seasonal changes in large dark areas on the surface of Mars still tantalize scientists with the strong hint that living material exists on the planet. The first step in determining whether there is life on Mars must be to acquire facts about its atmosphere, so that instrument-planting landing probes of the future may be designed advisedly."
"A new use for the white-hot, electrically charged streams of gases known as plasmas — as steering systems to stabilize and control the attitude of long-lived earth satellites — has been suggested as the result of tests at the Westinghouse Research Laboratories. These plasma jets previously have been utilized for tasks such as cutting and welding and in scientific studies such as MHD power generation and hydrogen fusion."
"A nuclear reactor designed exclusively for biological research has been operated for the first time at the United States Atomic Energy Commission's Argonne National Laboratory. The reactor, situated at the Argonne site southwest of Chicago, is named Janus after the two-faced Roman god, because it has two “faces,” or openings. By a shutter arrangement, either or both of the faces (which are placed on either side of the reactor) can be opened, allowing living organisms to be exposed to high or low levels of neutron radiation. The design allows the reactor to provide different intensities of fission neutrons at its two radiation faces."
"The American Institute of Physics has announced the retirement of its Director, Dr. Elmer Hutchisson, who will resume the editorship of the society's Journal of Applied Physics, of which he was the founder and first editor. Dr. Ralph H. Sawyer, Chairman of the Governing Board of AIP and former Vice President for Research and Graduate Dean of the University of Michigan, will assume the position of Acting Director, while Wallace Waterfall, now Secretary and Treasurer, will become Acting Deputy Director. Mr. Waterfall will continue as AIP Secretary and Gerald F. Gilbert, Controller and Assistant Treasurer, will serve as Acting Treasurer."
"More than 650 delegates from 20 countries (including several from behind the Iron Curtain and from the People's Republic of China) attended the Fifth International Conference on Microwave Tubes which was held in Paris, France, September 14–18. A number of U.S. microwave-tube manufacturers and laboratories, as well as several American universities, were represented among the 135 papers constituting the technical program. The conference was sponsored by the Fédération Nationale des Industries Électroniques and was organized by the Société Française des Ingénieurs et Techniciens du Vide and the Société Française des Électroniciens et des Radioélectriciens."
"The electronics industry in 1964 will achieve another record sales year with gains totaling some $1 billion above 1963, but the rate of growth will be slowed by an anticipated leveling-off in electronics spending by the government, the encroachment of imports in some market areas, and tightening competition for domestic sales outlets. This was the prediction of Dr. Harper Q. North, of Thompson Ramo Wooldridge Inc., and president of the Electronic Industries Association, in his address to the society's Fall Conference in Boston on September 24."
"Two manufacturers of electric equipment have pooled their R&D facilities in a joint cooperative undertaking for the development of foolproof space-saving lighting panelboards that will accommodate new and compact cartridge fuses rated at 15, 20, 30, and 60 amperes."
"William A. Crawford, principal instruments engineer with E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Inc., has been elected president of the Instrument Society of America. Mr. Crawford, who succeeds Allan E. Lee of Stanford Research Institute, has served as President-elect-Secretary since 1963. The election took place during the Annual Members Meeting at the society's 19th annual Instrument-Automation Conference and Exhibit held in New York in October."
"Professional men who wish to indulge their gambling instincts in the name of science are welcome to play “the thinking man's pinball,” the problem situation game devised by Stanford University's Dr. Paul Ekman — and be staked to the $2 playing fee into the bargain."
"A computer system has been devised which can simultaneously give individual instruction to a number of students in a wide variety of subjects. The International Business Machines Corporation system is based on standard IBM equipment, but incorporates an experimental computer language that makes it simple for educators to put courses into the computer."
"Faster, more accurate reservation services are in store for their passengers, according to announcements by American Airlines and Pan American World Airways. Both companies recently installed electronic reservations systems."
"Amplification of more than 20 dB/cm has been achieved with a traveling-wave acoustic amplifier which is fabricated of germanium. During tests at the International Business Machines Corporation's Research Division where it was developed, the device has amplified acoustic signals at 9 billion c/s (in the X-band microwave region)."
"The College of Engineering at Michigan State University has announced a reduction in graduation requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science from the former level of 212 quarter credits (141 semester credit hours) to a new level of 180 quarter credits (120 semester credit hours). The new program is effective for the freshman class entering this fall."
"If you are an employer and are interested in a listing under our “Men Available” column, under the New York office section, write to the New York office, listing the applicant's number, and a copy of his résumé will be mailed to you immediately."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A synthetic ruby crystal observed in cross section by laser interferometer techniques shows high contrast of optical fringes, also visible in the background. The 6-inch-long rod has a ½-inch diameter; it was inspected with a Perkin-Elmer instrument consisting of a gas laser that emits continuous coherent light at 6328 Å and a modified Twyman-Green interferometer. The instrument has enabled inspection of optical materials with double or more the accuracy previously obtainable, and in some cases it permits studies never before undertaken. The laser's beam can produce 3000 times more useful light energy than an arc light."
"Magnetism. “It has been found that the secondary current wave of a closed iron circuit induction coil or transformer, whose primary circuit receives alternating current, is lagged from its theoretical position of 90 degrees behind the primary wave, an additional 90 degrees, so that the phases of the two currents are directly opposed; or the secondary current, working lamps only in its circuit, is one-half a wave length behind the primary, instead of only a quarter wave length, as might have been expected.”"
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Charles S. Rich (SM '49) has retired from his position as Publications Adviser after a 34-year association with IEEE and its predecessor, AIEE. His retirement was effective March 1."
"A brief biography of W.F. Uhl, retired head of Chas. T. Main, Inc., is given highlighting his professional achievements. Additional death notices are provided."
"How Reduce the Damping? In the past two months I have used this space to develop a rationale for the many changes in engineering education that have occurred in the last 25 years. This month it is my intent to close out the trilogy by discussing the work remaining ahead."
"A survey is presented for the purpose of providing the nonspecialist with a basic understanding of the remarkable advances that have taken place over the past decade in the field of broadband antennas"
"Miniaturization requirements have brought about the integral fabrication of many components. The thin-film approach permits the integration of numerous precision circuit elements and their interconnections. Part I of this three-part series deals mainly with the two deposition techniques of cathode sputtering and vacuum evaporation, and with their use in the fabrication of film resistors, capacitors, and R-C networks. Subsequent articles will discuss thin-film transistors and cryogenic thin films Part I — Thin-film R-C networks"
"Investigations with the laser are in progress that may more clearly illuminate living processes. Applications to problems in biology and medicine are under exploration"
"The development of EHV and supersized generators have made economically feasible a 7-gigawatt power pool combining the power systems of 10 states and 22 utilities"
"In Part II of this series, differential equations with constant matrix coefficients are introduced. These equations may be solved explicitly by finding the eigenvalues and by expressing the functions of a diagonal matrix in terms of its constituent idempotents"
"Electric house heating involves short periods of high power demand. To ease production and distribution needs, a means of energy storage in the home is needed"
"IEEE is a nonnational society devoted to the extension and dissemination of technical and scientific knowledge in the science and technology of electricity, electronics, and related fields. Members of IEEE have equal privileges, and the policies of IEEE should reflect this equality of recognition and opportunity. Unlike an international society whose members are represented through national agencies or nationally organized committees, the nonnational membership character of IEEE involves representation through arbitrarily designated “regions” of the world not coinciding with national boundaries, and through directly elected officers and directors. Its activities are world-wide."
"In response to your letter of June 3, 1963, an Ad Hoc Committee on Professional Relations Policy consisting of C. Linder (Chairman), L. V. Berkner, C. Carlson, W. Chase, R. Chipp, S. Herwald, H. Lowe, F. K. Willenbrock (Secretary), with C. Savage as a consultant, has met and wishes to submit its report in three parts. In this covering letter, we shall include those recommendations which are of a current nature and which, in our opinion, require immediate action. The second part is our formal report to the Executive Committee which includes as its first recommendation that the Board of Directors adopt a series of policies governing its relationship with other organizations and that these policies be set forth in a unified document and be made available to the IEEE membership. The third part is the proposed statement of policies and it is our recommendation that these policies be adopted by the Board of Directors and be promulgated to the membership. Consequently, the major recommendations of this Ad Hoc Committee are to be found in this policy statement."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Ferment in Education. Those who view the present academic scene as “unchanging” should give some thought to the contents of the most recent IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EDUCATION."
"The Rand Corporation, of Santa Monica, California, and Dr. George Safonov of Advanced Concepts Technology, Inc., have described the results of seven years of experimentation on the direct conversion to electricity of energy from nuclear fission."
"Invention of solid-state amplifier — In an article in the February issue of Physics Today, Professor Virgil E. Bottom calls attention to several patents of Julius E. Lilienfeld (recently deceased) relating to devices for “amplifying and controlling electric currents.” The remarkable thing about these patents is the dates — filed in 1926 and 1928 and issued in 1930–1933. Prof. Bottom incorrectly considers the devices to be n-p-n transistors. There is no doubt that they are field-effect transistors using n-type Cu2S as the semiconductor."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Alaskan earthquake has focused the attention of the world on seismic phenomena. The electronics engineer naturally asks, “Can we use the techniques of radar and seismic sounding to investigate the earth's interior?” Burt Rudman, consultant in AIL's Research and Systems Engineering Division, has been thinking about this problem for some time and we present his thoughts in this advertisement."
"Close-up view of an experimental Flute memory array developed by scientists at IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center. The highly compact device is made by molding tiny magnetic ferrite “tubes” over a mesh of fine wires. The name of the array is derived from the flute-like appearance of the individual magnetic tubes. It can store 5000 bits of information. Storage is accomplished by changing the magnetization direction of the ferrite material at the intersection of any two wires. More detailed information appears in the Focal Points department in this issue on page 186."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Employees of the US National Bureau of Standards received Department of Commerce awards February 28 from Commerce Secretary Luther H. Hodges at the Department's 16th Annual Awards Program, and one award was announced posthumously."
"Problems of the Printed Word. The Editorial Board in its discussions last year rather quickly became convinced that publications were the major means by which our Institute would carry out its responsibility for individual member advancement, and that the same means were necessary to advancement of the field itself. However, in discussion of policy, the Board did not immediately assume that publications need follow present formats."
"This edited version of a 1964 IEEE International Convention symposium covers integrated-circuit types; manufacturing principles; the impact of these circuits in government, industrial, and consumer products; and future trends This Westinghouse array of dual DTL gates is fabricated at a density of approximately 1200 gates per square inch. Each gate performs the NAND function and propagates a logic signal at a speed under 17 ns per stage."
"Our subject is integrated circuitry. One generally accepted definition describes it as the physical realization of a number of circuit elements inseparably associated on or within a continuous body to perform the function of a circuit."
"It is difficult to compare the potentials of various technical approaches to a given problem because major breakthroughs often make it possible to achieve particular results cheaper, better, and more reliably by certain methods that may have been discarded as impractical only a few days earlier."
"The military effect on the progress of integrated circuits has been twofold. First, new technology has developed, some through the direct subsidy of military research and development, and much more through the company-sponsored research stimulated by this support. About $100 million of R & D expenditures escalated from an initial Government expenditure of $2 million. The second effect has been the military agencies' interest not only in using integrated circuits but also in providing the market and the motivation for suppliers to complete the development and establish the production capability to supply this waiting market. Military and space applications accounted for essentially the entire integrated circuits market last year, and will use over 95 per cent of the integrated circuits produced this year. Even in 1970, these applications may well be using as high a proportion as 55 per cent of the circuits produced."
"The commercial computer industry accounts for more than half of industrial electronics. Although none of the 1963 production equipment used modular circuits, all manufacturers are exploring their use for high-volume logic applications. The choice of modular circuits or discrete components in new computer design is difficult, and the decision cannot be made by comparing one component approach with another because the alternative circuits seldom have the same characteristics. Therefore, the choice must be made from a total systems standpoint."
"Modular microcircuitry will move into every section of the consumer electronic goods field and perhaps into some areas that are not considered primarily electronic."
"The integrated-circuits man is pre-empted in research and development by either device technologists or circuit engineers. Conversely, research and development in integrated circuitry must cover the entire field of research and development in electronics to keep up with competition's marketing."
"Let us look at what the integrated circuit market probably was in 1963, as shown in Table V. As applied to semiconductor networks, these are EIA numbers — for all other circuits, out best estimate. Research and development contracts are not included. Remember that we are defining integrated circuitry as “The physical realization of a number of circuit elements, inseparably associated on or within a continuous body to perform the function of a circuit.” Under the terms of this definition we exclude RC networks and similar assemblages of completely passive equivalent components."
"A single-crystal chip of silicon contains both active and passive elements. Parasitic capacitance introduced during monolithic construction and circuit performance can now be analyzed Monolithic integrated circuits derive their name from the fact that the entire integrated circuit is formed in a single-crystal chip of silicon semiconductor. The single-crystal chip technique is a main factor distinguishing between monolithic integrated circuits and thin-film circuits."
"The insulated-gate thin-film transistor is the active device under the most intensive investigation today. Solutions to its problems should simplify the future development of other types of active thin-film devices The first article in this series1 discussed thin-film circuits and the considerable success that has been achieved in the fabrication of inactive circuit elements by evaporative techniques. However, the thin-film technology will not be complete until active devices can be made compatibly with the inactive ones. At present the active elements — usually transistors — are soldered on the circuit boards. The usefulness of evaporated circuitry would be immeasurably increased if the active devices themselves were also evaporated."
"The unrelenting growth of technology, fed by an ever expanding science, underlines the need for post-baccalaureate education during the engineer's working life. Illustrated herein are some programs under way at the university and industry level"
"Engineering has long been considered not merely a learned profession but also a learning profession — one whose practitioners must first become and then remain students throughout their active years. But concurrent with the explosion in technology characteristic of the past two decades has been an increasing realization that organized programs of a wide variety of types must be made available to support the lifetime of learning in which engineers must engage."
"There are many outstanding programs of continuing education for engineers offered by universities. But rather than use these as a basis for discussion, we shall consider the role of the university in continuing education and the principles upon which programs should be based. Industry and the engineering professional societies have important roles in continuing education, but the university must accept the primary responsibility."
"Technological revolution, information explosion, systems automation, and data retrieval are exciting words to the recent, or soon-to-be, graduate engineer. These are more than words. They are challenging, changing, accelerating, and exhilarating idea-worlds in which a young engineer may contribute and profit. With a foundation of modern mathematics, materials science, systems, and communications — and trained in the modern engineering method — the graduate is well prepared to launch his career."
"The overall situation in the education of engineers by industry in general and the communication industry in particular is influenced by two trends: 1. Design. The four-year college of today does not cover the application of engineering principles in the detail and manner required by industry."
"In recent years, General Electric has conducted a new educational program for its senior technical managers. This six-week course is conducted for a class of 25 engineering managers at an off-the-job facility. Approximately 100 survey lectures on fundamental scientific theories and new methods of engineering analysis are presented by 25 visiting professors and company experts."
"Currently, engineers are confronted with a huge mass of new scientific information. They must learn how to assimilate the new information and continue to assimilate it as it is produced during their working careers. This problem is not new but its importance has greatly increased as a result of the massive support of research in this country in recent years. The broad solution to the problem is designated as continuing education; the term applies only to nondegree work."
"This report brings up to date the work of the old AIEE Committee on Education. Its one-year survey of post-baccalaureate education in industry, completed in January 1963, forms the basis of the report."
"This fourth part of a five-part series starts with the expansion of an analytic function of an arbitrary square matrix, involving real or complex numbers, in terms of its constituent matrices. The conjoint matrix and characteristic polynominal are computed by a convenient algorithm and are then used for calculating constituent matrices. Finally there is a discussion of the two-sided matrix equation AY + B = YC, and of the reduction of an arbitrary matrix to a similar Jordan matrix."
"Simulation of complex engineering systems is a growing need. The hybrid computer — evolved from the analog and digital computer — offers a means, otherwise impractical, for achieving many such simulations During the 1950s the capabilities of electronic computers stayed well ahead of the needs of the average user. Such was the case in both the analog computer and scientific digital computer fields. One effect of this situation was the formation of two schools of experts with opposite views on the choice of the “best” general-purpose scientific computer. Differences of training, experience, and semantics led to a serious barrier to interchange of opinion between these two groups. At best, the fashionable middle-of-the-road position was to admit that each computing technique “had its place,” which did little to break down the barrier. Only with the appearance of a computational task that could not be accomplished satisfactorily by either type was the barrier cracked and a small opening made."
"With the merger of AIEE and IRE in 1963, a reappraisal of existing editorial policy was undertaken which resulted in the birth of a new journal and a serviceable publications policy for the voice of IEEE At the time of the merger of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Institute of Radio Engineers the two Institutes were producing 39 separate publications, which included the Proceedings of the IRE; Electrical Engineering; the three AIEE Bimonthlies — Power Apparatus and Systems, Applications and Industry, and Communication and Electronics; the annual bound volumes of these, entitled the AIEE Transactions; the 30 Professional Group Transactions of the IRE; the IRE Convention Record; and EE Digest and the IRE Student Journal for the student members of the two organizations. The circulation of these various journals ran from a few hundred to over 100 000, and among them all but the Proceedings were subsidized in some way."
"Patrick E. Haggerty (F), president of Texas Instruments Inc., holds the B.S.E.E. degree from Marquette University and honorary degrees from Marquette, St. Mary's University of San Antonio, and the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. He joined the predecessor company to Texas Instruments in 1945, following employment in Milwaukee with the Badger Carton Company and three years of U.S. Navy assignment to the Bureau of Aeronautics in Washington, D.C., where he served as head of the Electronics Production Branch of the Electronics Products Group, which was responsible for procurement and production of naval airborne electronic equipment. When he joined Texas Instruments he was put in charge of the development of the research, engineering, and manufacturing phases of the company's operations. Since that time the operations of the company have been diversified and tremendously expanded. Mr. Haggerty became executive vice president of Texas Instruments in 1950 and was elected to his present office in 1958. He served as president of the IRE and as co-chairman of the IRE-AIEE Merger Committee in 1962, and continues to serve on the resultant IEEE Board of Directors. He also is a member of the Defense Science Board."
"Project West Ford. A year ago last month 20 kilograms of hair-fine copper fibers were hurtled into orbit. After several months an extremely tenuous belt had been formed around the earth with an average distance between individual fibers, each less than two centimeters long, of nearly half a kilometer."
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department∗, 275 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members. N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"Is our current technical education meeting the changing requirements off industry? The recent seminar on the “Interrelationship of Engineering Education and Industrial Progress,” sponsored by The Cooper Union, may have represented a pioneering effort in airing at a round-table discussion many of the problems that exist between the requirements of engineering in industry and the fulfillment of these needs by our engineering schools."
"Clerk Maxwell and modern science, C. Domb, ed. — Oxford University Press, New York, N.Y., 1964; 118 pages, illus. $4.00. This is a short, entertaining volume that links the 19th century history of electrical science with some of the latest developments in the field. One hundred years ago, James Clerk Maxwell was Professor of Natural Philosophy at King's College, London. During his tenure he wrote “Physical Lines of Force,” and his greatest paper, “A Dynamical Theory of the Electromagnetic Field.” The latter paper contains the famous equations of the electromagnetic field, and the substance of the prediction of the electromagnetic theory of light."
"This book is a clearly written, easy-reading, authoritative discussion of everything one can think of that is connected with space communication. The 12 chapters include several dealing with the technical aspects of communication system design, radio propagation, space environment, telemetry, components, mechanical design, reliability, a historical survey, and a prognostication of future developments. The technology important to space communications is primarily discussed, rather than systems, system balances, or economics. Everything from thermal noise to superpower sources, from quantum to relativistic effects, from information theory to IRIG and CCIR standards, and from solar batteries to lasers is covered — although few items receive more than a short paragraph. Existing systems such as Echo, Telstar, Relay, and Syncom are briefly mentioned as examples."
"Dictionary of pure and applied physics, L. de Vries and W. E. Clason — American Elsevier Publishing Co., Inc., New York, N.Y. Proceedings of the second colloquium on microwave communication, Dept. of Tech. Science of the Hungarian Acad. of Sciences, and the Scientific Soc. of Telecommunication, Akademiai Kiado, eds. — Publishing House of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary. The theory of mathematical machines, Yu. Ya. Bazilevskii — Pergamon Press, Inc., New York, N. Y. Lectures in statistical mechanics, George E. Uhlenbeck and George W. Ford — American Mathematical Society, Providence, R.I. Mathematical problems of relativistic physics, Irving E. Segal — Ibid. Basic junction devices and circuits, Roy H. Mattson — John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, N.Y."
"Errata. In my article in the May issue of spectrum, “Protecting Communication Systems from EMP Effects of Nuclear Explosions,” there is a significant error in the last line of the third complete paragraph on page 121. The quantity “1 million” should have been “100 000.” Also, in Detail A of the unnumbered illustration, the conduit or pipe should not continue on to the left since the purpose of the two shield wires is to protect cable that is not enclosed in conduit or pipe. In Fig. 1 curve d is for 0.01 in sheet copper with the joints soldered."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Summary form only given as follows. Presents imags of technology or technology components. This greatly enlarged reproduction shows what actually is an extremely small portion of a special computer memory. The memory in physical appearance is a circular band about 3/8 inch wide and 9 -3/8 inches in diameter near the outer edge of a circular 'photoscopic' disk. Each black or white area (shown reversed in this reproduction from that actually used in the memory) represents an entry in a 'dictionary. ' The dictionary is the heart of an International Business Machines' system for automatic translation of foreign languages. The circular band, representing the dictionary, is capable of holding 60 to 70 million bits of information. In the language translating application, the band is used for the entire dictionary of several hundred thousand entries. Any one of these entries can be found automatically in a fiftieth of a second. Readout is accomplished with a cathode-ray-tube beam and phototube. The translating system was developed for the United States Air Force."
"Multiplex Telegraphy. “I had constructed two ordinary direct current motors of the simplest form, an ordinary two pole field and single coil armature conveniently arranged for use as either direct or alternating current machines. The armature circuits were connected at one end to an ordinary two-part commutator and at the other to two insulated ring contacts. They are shown by a simple diagram in Fig. 1, where both are connected in a single circuit. The armature of the machine M1 was normally open at the ring contacts, and could be closed either by connecting the ring or through an external circuit. Such a circuit was made to include the field coils of the machine M2, and the armature of this machine was connected in the direct current circuit from the poles of the battery. Thus connected, the two machines moved as one; the machine M2 following all the fluctuations of speed in the machine M1, as if their armatures were carried by the same spindle, the speed being varied between wide limits.”"
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Education for Living. The educational fraternity hears many complaints about the inability of engineers to write, read, and spell. It is therefore refreshing to learn from a teacher of psychology, in a letter to the editor of Science, that students in the social sciences have parallel difficulties, demonstrated by a spelling such as “Cornepincus,” probably translatable freely as Copernicus! Of course, science and engineering teachers often pass the buck to the high schools, whose teachers feel that the grade schools are ineffective, and at the latter level there is concern for the quality of work in the kindergarten."
"The MHD generator appears to have wide applicability. Its development is proceeding both rapidly and encouragingly. Initial central station use is possible in the mid-1970s"
"Our economic future is intimately linked with the spreading strata of the highly educated: each Ph.D. can mean employment for 5 to 10 engineers, each of whom uses 10 to 15 skilled workers"
"The work, working, and workers in artificial intelligence are illuminated, magnified, and dissected by the occasionally sharp instrument of the Government contractual process"
"Upcoming systems — analyzing, code converting, and synthesizing speech sounds — will revolutionize communication both between individuals and between machines"
"The advent of high-field superconducting materials has prompted the exploration of applications, including dc magnets, energy storage, and the production of homogeneous fields"
"Thomas R. Brogan received the degree of Bachelor of Engineering Physics from Cornell University in 1955. During his undergraduate years his summers were devoted to rocket engine instability studies at Boeing Airplane Company and the development of induction heating apparatus for Westinghouse Corporation. He received the Master of Aeronautical Engineering degree from Cornell in 1956, after which he joined the staff of the Avco-Everett Research Laboratory. His first effort there involved a study of the one-dimensional flow of an ionized gas in a magnetic field by the use of a shock tube."
"Scanning the issues Birth Announcement. We are pleased to report that the joining together of geoscience and electronics in matrimony in 1962 has resulted in a new addition to the IEEE family of publications. The first issue of this union, named IEEE Transactions on Geoscience Electronics, arrived in December. We can also report that its features, described in part below, resemble both parents."
"Electricity is produced at low temperature by continuous power generation with use off MPD generator Recently announced was a scientific development stated to be capable of revolutionizing the generation of electricity. Scientists at the Martin Company demonstrated continuous power generation by a magnetoplasmadynamic generator, and verified the principle of magnetically induced nonequilibrium ionization of gas. It is anticipated that with further development, closed-cycle magnetoplasmadynamic (MPD) power generation at low temperature may lead to a reliable and economical method of producing electricity for Navy ships, spacecraft, lunar bases, and entire cities."
"Engineer or scientist? — We have followed with interest and concern recent discussion in the IEEE Proceedings relating to the training, function, and image of electronics engineers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Advertisements."
"Advertisement: Planar arrays using either electrically large or electrically small elements have been used as adaptive antennas. This subject has received so much attention that the March 1964 issue of the IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation is a special issue devoted to adaptive antennas. This month the authors Warren White and Lome De Size describe an adaptive feed system that can be used with a large reflector to provide adaptive capabilities. [advertisement sponsored by Airborne Instruments Laboratory Deer Park, Long Island, New York, USA.]"
"Presents imags of technology or technology components. Ultrasonic photography made possible this view of the floor of the Atlantic Ocean 8400 feet down. The new sonar system developed by Westinghouse scientists and engineers photographs the ocean floor with ultrasonic sound at depths far too great for light to penetrate the perpetual blackness. The new system builds up a three-dimensional picture line by line, similar to the way in which a television picture is produced. Each sonar line is a strip of ocean bottom 2400 feet long and 4 feet wide, with 1000 2.5-foot elements. The system thus has a resolving capability down to 2.5 by 4 feet and has a search rate of about 1.5 square miles per hour. The original photograph was taken from a moving strip of sensitive paper, or facsimile recorder, whose rate compressed the picture in the forward travel or vertical direction. The area of the Atlantic Ocean floor shown above is roughly a 0.5 mile wide and 0.5 mile from top to bottom."
"Artificial Lighting. “Of human industries of the present day none perhaps, save those which have to do with providing the race with food, clothing, shelter and fuel, is more important to the cause of material welfare than that which deals with the production of artificial light, and he who seeks a means of measuring the material civilization reached by a nation might find an excellent criterion in the progress which it exhibits in the art of illumination.”"
"From March 23 to 26, the New York Hilton Hotel and the New York Coliseum in New York City will be hosts to the IEEE International Convention. The recently completed New York Hilton is situated a convenient six blocks from the Coliseum. The theme of this year's Convention is “A Glimpse of the Future.” Both the technical papers program and the exhibits have been expanded approximately 20 per cent to encompass the full scope of IEEE technical activities."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Engineers Joint Council has honored Dr. J. B. Wiesner (F '52), Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, by presenting him with a Citation of Merit. The honor was bestowed at an EJC conference on Engineering in National Affairs, January 12–14, in Washington, D.C."
"To have the cake, or eat it? (continued) Most U.S. engineering colleges were founded in the 40 years following the passage of the Morrill Land-Grant Act in 1862. In the same general period, the world witnessed a phenomenal conjunction of inventions — the internal combustion engine, the vulcanization of rubber, the pneumatic tire, the automobile, the steam turbine, the use of steel in construction, the electric lamp, the Pearl Street central station, the electric motor, electric traction, the ac power system, the telephone, the Edison effect, the Hertz confirmation of Maxwell's prediction of electromagnetic radiation, the Fleming valve, Marconi's span of the Atlantic by radio waves, De Forest's triode, the Wright airplane."
"Fabrication by evaporation, insulated-gate construction, and predictable performance are contributing to the emergence from obscurity of the unipolar field-effect transistor"
"Multiprogramming and multiprocessing make economically feasible the capabilities of on-line debugging, man — machine interaction, and remote operation and communication in information handling systems"
"Underground power distribution is growing exponentially. New residential customers thus served should increase from 6 per cent to 40 per cent of total by 1973"
"One hears much today about the need for the engineer to continue to learn, to move as the field moves, to enter new fields as challenges arise. Electrical engineering, in its recent progress from dc and ac circuits through the vacuum tube and the waveguide and into the complexities of solid-state devices, well demonstrates the necessity for perpetual learning."
"The theory of matrices is playing a role of rapidly increasing importance in the formulation and solution of problems, not only in mathematics and engineering, but in the biological and social sciences as well. Before the advent of the computer, a mathematician could talk glibly about the existence and uniqueness of a solution of a system of ten linear equations in ten unknowns. Few had ever tried to find the solution of such a system. Now matrix theory not only provides an extremely helpful tool for designing a mathematical model of a system with many variables, but also affords a practical and convenient method of adapting the data for processing by a computer. The theory of functions of a matrix — including polynomial, exponential, and trigonometric functions — provides an extremely powerful tool both for model making and for providing numerical answers. Some feel that any problem that can be solved by Laplace transform methods can be solved with equal or greater ease by using functions of matrices."
"Electronic simulation provides the engineer with a powerful analytical tool that makes it possible to test and evaluate proposed circuitry in the conceptual stage"
"An introduction to the principles of communications over dispersive channels — in which a heuristic channel model is developed, and simple formulas and curves are investigated for the selection of communications system parameters"
"J. T. Wallmark (F) was born in Stockholm, Sweden, on June 4, 1919. He received the degrees of Civilingenjor in electrical engineering in 1944, Teknologie Licentiat in 1947, and Teknologie Doktor in 1953, all from the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm."
"Sea Lion Sonar. Recent preliminary experiments with California sea lions have revealed that they possess a sonar system which, by man's modest standards, could only be described as highly advanced. Not only can they locate small pieces of fish in darkness just as quickly as in daylight, but they can differentiate, at a distance of several feet, between fish they like and those they don't."
"On January 26 Echo II joined its sister satellites in their race around the earth to pick up messages from various spots and relay them to others. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)successfully launched the largest communications satellite in action at the time of writing, sending aloft a balloon-like structure with a diameter of 135 feet, and standing 13 stories high. Its development is a step toward a global passive communications network in the future."
"I was particularly interested in Mr. Espenschied's letter, “Beginning of Broadcasting” in the December Proceedings. I would like to quote from a letter addressed to me, dated September 26, 1942, on a printed letterhead “WHA, The Oldest Station in the Nation, University of Wisconsin,” and signed by Harold A. Engel, Public Relations."
"Advertisements."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents imags of technology or technology components. This electron micrograph (1.5 inches = 1 micron) of a 1000 Å thick tin film illustrates a structure that can be used as the storage medium in a cryogenic continuous-film memory, typical of devices under development at IBM. During the evaporation of the film, the metal initially forms a number of isolated tin islands. However, as additional tin is deposited, bridges develop between the islands and the film becomes electrically continuous. This lacy network of superconducting tin and physical voids provides a suitable structure for storing information at extremely low temperatures, at which circulating currents can be maintained indefinitely in the superconducting tin loops. For additional information see the article on thin film superconducting devices, which appears on pages 84-99 of this issue."
"Electric Currents. “As, a short time since, I stood in a library of scientific books and glanced around me at the works of the great masters in physics, my mind wandered back to the time when the apparatus for a complete course of lectures on the subject of electricity consisted of a piece of amber and a few light bodies to be attracted by it. From that time until now, when we stand in a magnificent laboratory with elaborate and costly apparatus in great part devoted to its study, how greatly has the world changed and how our science of electricity has expanded both in theory and practice until, in the one case, it threatens to include within itself nearly the whole of physics, and in the other to make this the age of electricity.”"
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"W. H. Radford becomes director of MIT Lincoln Lab. W. H. Radford (F '54) became director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory on February 1."
"The World Around Us. How to provide technical counsel and advice, in a fully ethical and professional manner, to those governmental bodies making decisions in which engineering knowledge is required or engineering judgment exercised, has long been a matter of concern to many engineers. While realizing that political factors are often present, these engineers fear that proper and unbiased engineering fact and information have not always been made available. It should be pointed out that this concern seems to center on the lack of an appropriate and professional channel, rather than on the lack of good will among the agencies able to provide the service and those requiring it."
"A method is outlined for the combination of thermionic converters and steam turbines to obtain more electricity from future nuclear central station power plants. Various types of converters are described and evaluated"
"Thin-film techniques have contributed significantly to an improved understanding of superconductivity. Cryogenic thin films are particularly suitable for use in switching and storage devices in computer memories"
"3.1 Mathematical models of systems By definition, a system is a collection of discrete components, each having certain definable characteristics, together with a prescribed pattern of interconnections or interrelations. Components of a system may be pieces of physical hardware — such as a hydraulic servo valve, an amplifier, a two-terminal inductor, or a three-terminal transistor — or they may represent the less precisely defined components encountered in socioeconomic or biological systems. In any case, the system can be represented schematically by a diagram such as that shown in Fig. 1, where a point of contact between any two regions represents a junction or interface between two components, and is referred to as a terminal of the components."
"An engineering educator emphasizes the urgent need for philosophical perspectives for the long-range planning of our engineering and scientific futures — and for the preservation of Western civilization"
"Electromagnetic pulses created by nuclear blasts propagate electric and magnetic fields that can damage today's complex and sensitive electronic equipment. The suggested protective measures draw heavily on lightning protection experience"
"Volney C. Wilson was among a small group of scientists on hand for one of the most important events in history — the initial release of atomic energy, in December 1942, at the University of Chicago. He received the B.S. degree in 1932 from Northwestern University, where he majored in physics and chemistry. He was a graduate assistant at Ohio State University, from which he received the M.S. degree. He received the Ph.D. degree from the University of Chicago in 1938. In his doctoral dissertation he showed that some cosmic rays are able to penetrate as much as 1600 feet of rock. During the early part of World War II he worked on radar development at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In January 1942, when the Manhattan Project was organized, Dr. Wilson returned to Chicago and became director of instrumentation and control with Dr. Enrico Fermi's group at Stagg Field. Since the war he has been with the General Electric Research Laboratory, where he has worked on magnetic materials, neutron spectroscopy, computer circuitry and devices, and energy conversion."
"Bits and Electrons. The storage of digital information on photographic emulsion is far from a new concept. High-speed optical readout can be achieved from such memories, but the writing of the digital information on the photographic plates is not without its difficulties. Conventional optical techniques are adequate for recording in systems which do not use the maximum storage densities available from emulsion and in which the total capacity remains below 108 bits; however, optical writing is inconveniently slow for memories of 107 bits and over."
"Fuel cell operating in reverse ‘without fuel’ becomes swift and ultrasensitive oxygen detector A recently developed type of fuel cell has now become one of the fastest and most sensitive oxygen detectors."
"In this note, definitions of adaptation, learning, and self-repair are proposed, and the relation of adaptation and feedback indicated. Learning and self-repair are defined as special forms of adaptation."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Jesse Taub, Harvey Hindin, Gediminas Kurpis, and Jerome Cohen of our Department of Applied Electronics have been developing quasioptical components for millimeter and submillimeter wavelength operation. Some of their recent work is described this month."
"Thermionic-emission electron micrograph of low-carbon (0.2 per cent) steel. The micrograph provides direct evidence of thermally etched contour lines by holding at a temperature of 2250 °F. It is part of an “Art in Research” collection of slides collated by the Research Laboratories of General Motors Corporation for availability as an exhibit."
"A New Type of A-c Motor. My experience, in common with that of my predecessors, teaches that the alternating current motor has a strong and persistent disposition to stand still, and when persuaded to motion is apt to be a sort of ‘go as you please’ machine and asserts its inherent right to turn in either direction indifferently, direction of rotation in some cases being purely a matter of chance. I shall not have much to say about efficiency, as my experiments with large machines are not sufficiently advanced to furnish any reliable data, but I will endeavor to give a general solution of the problem designed to meet the following conditions of practice: “1st. A machine that will start itself independently of the speed of the generator or number of alternations of current per unit of time.”"
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"D. D. Israel (F '42), a member of the Joint Technical Advisory Committee since 1952, was appointed chairman of JTAC at its meeting on May 21. Mr. Israel is vice chairman of the board of Emerson Radio and Phonograph Corporation."
"The Ladies in Our Midst. Perhaps not many of our members know that the ladies took over last month — they held their own First International Conference of Women Engineers and Scientists at the United Engineering Center in June. Perhaps not many of you know that the ladies have their own national organization in the U.S. — the Society of Women Engineers — with a membership approximating 600. And these women demonstrate that they can be engineers and also beautiful — we have evidence on both counts."
"Intense beams of light or particles have been increasingly used in the forming and joining of refractory materials and components. Energy beam techniques reduce disturbance of the metallurgical properties to a minimum"
"This study of actually recorded trends of energy consumption in every country in the world serves to provide a springboard for long-term projections Energy universally and increasingly has become a major subject of public interest; its indispensability to the orderly functioning and steady growth of a nation's economy has come to be regarded as axiomatic. In practically every country, short- and long-term expectations of energy requirements are the object of continuing statistical study and reappraisal at the highest government and industry levels."
"This last part of a five-part series includes two methods for transforming a matrix into its companion matrix by rational operations, A method is also given for orthogonally transforming a real symmetric matrix to triple diagonal form and then computing its eigenvalues without using the coefficients of the characteristic polynomial"
"The process by which a computer can learn is demonstrated by asking it to solve increasingly more difficult versions of the Tower of Hanoi puzzle. Ultimately, the system may learn how to generalize in a particular problem domain Present uses of computers, valuable as they may be, are far from the ultimate in what might be accomplished. One of the reasons is that the solution of even well-defined problems, for which goals and rules are precisely known, can be extremely difficult to program (e.g., chess-playing programs). But intellectual capacities of machines might be extended by means of an adaptive system to handle increasingly complex and varied tasks."
"U.S. nuclear power plant capacity is now 1.2 GWe. By year 2000, 45 per cent of electric power will be nuclear. Great expansion is also anticipated in ship propulsion, space, and desalting of sea water In less than 25 years, the nuclear chain reaction has progressed from the laboratory to the bomb to extravagant hopes for peaceful utilization, and to disillusionment when the hopes were not quickly realized. We now arrive at today's position in which nuclear power is the preferred power source in many situations and enjoys excellent prospects for expanded utilization in the future. For electric power generation, nuclear power is already economically competitive in certain wide areas of the world and may soon become a necessity in conserving natural resources and limiting air pollution. Below water and in outer space, nuclear power is the means of performing missions otherwise impossible. These examples highlight the truly remarkable progress that has been made in taming the atom."
"It is my pleasure to present to the membership the Reports of the Secretary and Treasurer, which record the activities and vital statistics of IEEE in 1963. These documents cover in some detail the end results of a year's experience of those who have shared in the management of IEEE: members of the Boards, Committees, and Staff on whom have fallen the responsibility for decisions and execution of Institute policy. On behalf of the members I wish to thank them for their dedicated service to IEEE."
"Herewith is presented the Report of the Secretary for the year 1963, the first of operations under the merger arrangement that created the IEEE. Being a formative year in the attacking of problems incident to the merger, some solutions, such as the policy regarding publications, have been adopted and others are in progress but not finalized. In particular, the coordination of office operating routines and management organization have been difficult due to the quite different practices prevalent in the two former societies and some embarrassment ensued both for members and for management, due to errors that were made in the struggle to achieve unification. However, by the close of the year, most of these difficulties came under control."
"Our financial statements, as certified by Price Waterhouse & Company, who have audited the books of the IEEE for 1963, are contained at the end of this report. In the Statement of Financial Position the working capital amounted to $1,306,262, with the marketable securities stated at cost, and to $2,097,000, with securities stated at market values at the end of 1963. Our total funds were $3,792,275 and $4,626,000 respectively. Since our total expenses for operations during fiscal 1963 amount to $5,708,593, we are in sound financial position."
"C. Q. Lemmond (SM) received the B.E.E. degree from North Carolina State College in 1944. He joined the General Electric Company's Engineering Test Program in June 1944 and later entered the company's Creative Engineering Program. In 1948 he accepted a permanent position in the General Engineering Laboratory (now the Advanced Technology Laboratories) as a development engineer. His first assignments dealt with radiation detectors and their associated circuitry. He was later project director of electronic control equipment for the 15-MeV industrial betatron."
"Thermionic AC Generation. Since thermionic diodes produce a low-voltage dc output, large generators necessarily entail very high total currents. One way of reducing these to manageable size is to connect a large number of small cells in series. Beyond a certain point, however, this leads to a prohibitive decrease in reliability."
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Please do not request copies of individual articles as they are not available."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department∗, 275 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"Lasers are produced with noble gases; are used in cell study; and are ‘steered’ by electronic means Laser action at more than 60 new wavelengths has been observed in a new class of gas ion laser. Four gaseous elements — argon, krypton, xenon, and neon — were used to achieve the action, which occurred in both the singly and doubly ionized states of these inert, or “noble” gases. Both pulsed- and continuous-wave operations were achieved."
"Advances in computers — vol. 4, Franz L. Alt and Morris Rubinoff, eds. — Academic Press, Inc., New York, N.Y., 1963; 303 pages, illus. $12.00. The volume is a series of articles, written by recognized authorities, and relating the recent development and efforts in five separate aspects of the computing field. The titles include “The Formulation of Data Processing. Problems for Computers,” by W. C. McGee; “Computer Education,” by H. E. Tompkins; “All-Magnetic Circuit Techniques,” by D. R. Bennion, and H. D. Crane; “Digital Fluid Logic Elements,” by H. H. Glaettli, and “Multiple Computer Systems,” by W. A. Curtin. The article on data processing problems specifically discusses procedural vs. nonprocedural programming languages, the techniques related to the formulation of problems for each, and data description and organization. Considerable space is devoted to the advantages and limitations of decision tables, and the current efforts directed toward the development of an information algebra and a theory of data processing."
"The object of the book, as stated by the authors, is to present an up-to-date and readable survey of the principles of operation and uses of microwave valves. On this score, it is the reviewer's feeling that the authors have succeeded. The scope of the book covers practically all microwave tube types, including traveling-wave tubes, klystrons, backward-wave amplifiers, parametric amplifiers, magnetrons, etc. There is a chapter on masers and on semiconductor devices."
"As a prerequisite to the following the reader is referred to the Proposal Request and the response of “Calculated Risks, Inc.,” in Louis Fein's paper (February issue, pp. 74–78). This additional “proposal” is herewith submitted since we feel that the response of Calculated Risks, Inc., indicated that they were beginning to think about problems for which we already had solutions. It should be noted that the technical statements are intended to reflect our actual work."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In this issue Z. H. (Herb) Heller of AIL's Central Research Group describes an interesting parallel between the Raman laser and an early parametric, electromechanical oscillator first described by R. V. L. Hartley in the twenties."
"Photomicrograph of an internal view of crystal imperfections in a silicon diode. The photomicrograph was taken with a scanning electron microprobe at a magnification of 620. This new technique in microscopy developed at Bell Telephone Laboratories enables semiconductor diodes to be studied without damaging the specimens or using special treatment. The electron beam penetrates the material under study and a picture is produced by collecting the charges generated in the material by the beam. In this manner, opaque materialscan be examined. Beam energies from 4 to 50 keV are used with currents from 4 nanoamperes to 4 microamperes."
"Underground Distribution. “In referring to overhead electric light work I am speaking rather of the past than of the future, because I think you are aware the commission appointed by the Board of Trade, which has lately gone into the whole matter, has formed a set of regulations under which the whole of the electric lighting in London is to be placed underground as soon as possible. No additional overhead wires are allowed to be placed, except such as may be agreed upon between the inspectors and the various companies, and the central station companies in London are now very hard at work laying down mains. However, there is no doubt a good deal of overhead work will be required for various purposes, and as you have so much overhead work here perhaps it might be worth while to explain our practice. First of all, we have not been allowed to plant posts in the streets at all, except in country roads. Within the boundaries of towns it is an absolute rule that no posts can be fixed in the streets. If we want posts we must put them in people's back gardens and in vacant lots, etc.”"
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Frederick R. Kappel (F '50), chairman of the Board of Directors, American Telephone & Telegraph Company, New York City, has been designated the John Fritz Medal recipient for 1965. The sponsors of the John Fritz Medal are: IEEE, ASCE, AIME, ASME, and AIChE."
"Those Happy Days Are Gone Forever. Once upon a time, during the reign of good King Steady-State, when the technical world was young, our engineering campuses were happy places. The ivy grew undisturbed on those classrooms and shops down by the power plant, and in their offices the faculty maintained a serenity engendered by their certainty of what they would teach next year — and the next, and the next. A summer vacation was to be enjoyed at the cottage on the lake, not sandwiched between summer institutes, research conferences, and a graduate class. In that day the curricula were planned to graduate engineers, and the faculty were very sure of that. The technical world was bounded and almost complete; had not Newton, Bernoulli, Carnot, Faraday, and their kind established all the rules?"
"Here presented is the memorandum that 20 years ago initiated a series of events whose revolutionary implications are only beginning to manifest themselves — a description of the first large-scale general-purpose automatic digital computer Twenty years ago, on August 7, 1944, Mark I, the first large-scale general-purpose automatic digital computer ever to be put in operation was dedicated at Harvard University by James B. Conant, then president of Harvard, and the late Thomas J. Watson, founder of IBM."
"It is becoming increasingly important for government and industry, as well as for many engineers and scientists, to examine the implications of present and future changes in defense requirements At a time when the electronics and aerospace industries are undergoing an “agonizing reappraisal” of the future requirements of their chief customer, many companies and many engineers and scientists are beginning to think more intently about the prospects before them."
"The entire course of antenna development appears to have been altered by the rapid evolution of the self-phasing principle. Salient characteristics of adaptive, or self-phasing, antennas are described by means of a semiquantitative approach Antenna research is considered by some shortsighted individuals to be a “dead field.” The statement has been repeated many times since the end of World War II, but fortunately for those who make a living in this field, the body shows a great reluctance to lie down for the burial. While a quick perusal of the popular antenna publications indicates a great deal of “rediscovery” in progress, the relatively small number of researchers responsible for most of the progress are still pushing back the frontiers. Recent antenna developments, in fact, occasionally have bordered on the glamorous."
"One of our most pressing needs is for a continuous mechanism to assure that the fruits of science and technology are purposefully used for the economic and social benefit of the entire country. Many of the problems discussed apply equally to other nations throughout the world Science and technology are the dominant influences in our lives, as individuals in a society, and as a nation in a world of other nations. Given this premise, one might assume that there must be a national policy for science and engineering. We have a fiscal policy, a tax policy, a natural resources policy, an agricultural policy, a trade policy, a defense policy, a foreign policy. But as yet we do not have a national policy for science and engineering — at least, we do not have a firm one. We must not adopt a policy of national neglect, or a policy of national indifference toward one of the most significant and far-reaching elements in our society."
"FIST has been developed for the maintenance of modularized, noncomputer, electronic equipment. Tests are dynamic, meaningful, rapid, and can be performed by an unskilled technician. System flexibility and concepts may well revolutionize maintenance methods for both military and industrial equipment The method of fault isolation by semiautomatic techniques developed at the National Bureau of Standards, to which the acronym FIST has been applied, is a diagnostic tool for rapidly isolating faults in modularized, noncomputer-type electronic equipment without removing the modules from the prime equipment. The method is simple and flexible and is orders of magnitude faster than trouble shooting with manual test equipment."
"Howard Aiken (F) received the S.B. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Wisconsin in 1923. From 1923 to 1932 he was associated with Madison Gas and Electric, Westinghouse, and the Line Material Company, and studied physics at the University of Chicago. He received the S.M. in physics in 1937 and the Ph.D. in 1939 from Harvard University. In 1941, after two years as instructor in physics, he became an associate professor in applied mathematics. He retired from Harvard in 1961 as professor of applied mathematics and director of the Computation Laboratory. From 1941 to 1946 he was a commander in the USNR, stationed at Harvard. In this capacity he designed and developed the computing machinery that followed his original conception of Mark I during his student years at Harvard. He is now Distinguished Service Professor of Information Technology at the University of Miami in Florida. He is the founder of Howard Aiken Industries, Inc., New York City."
"Distributed Communications. A great deal of thought has necessarily been given in recent years to the question of the survivability of communications systems in the event of attack. Unpleasant though such a prospect may be, the studies themselves have led to some interesting suggestions as to what form our future networks might take."
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Please do not request copies of individual articles as they are not available."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department∗, 275 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"For the third year, 5½ hours per day, 4 days per week from September to June, more than 1200 schools in the United States are receiving instruction of high quality from a television-equipped DC-6 aircraft. The broadcast comes from an altitude of 23 000 feet over Montpelier, Ind., to the six states participating — Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin. The program, financed primarily by The Ford Foundation Fund for the Advancement of Education and conducted by the Midwest Program on Airborne Television Instruction (MPATI), a nonprofit corporation formed for this purpose, first began operation in 1961.1"
"Automation and the Library of Congress — Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., 1964; 88 pages, illus. $2.00. This work represents the survey findings conducted by a team of experts in the areas of documentation and electronic information-processing systems. The basic recommendations of the group are contained in a succinct 24-page presentation that constitutes the body of the book. An appendix presents in detail a particular system configuration, with a cost analysis indicating that minimal automation could be accomplished for about $30 million, and that the entire scope of the recommendations just mentioned could be achieved at a cost of $50 million to $70 million — an amount approximately equal to the budget of the Library of Congress for three years."
"This book provides a theoretical treatment of the operation, and the excitation systems, of “asynchronized” synchronized (AS) machines — that is, ac motors and generators which have their excitation supplied by an independent slip-frequency source. Such devices are usually called “doubly fed” machines in American practice. Almost the entire book is devoted to the development and analysis of the d and q axes equations of the machine, and consideration of the excitation requirements — including the power that must be supplied by the excitation system."
"Topics in the theory of random noise, vol. 1, R. L. Stratonovick — Gordon & Breach Publishers, Inc., New York, N. Y. Propagation and instabilities in plasmas, Walter I. Futterman, ed. — Stanford University Press, Stanford, Calif. Problems in the design and development of 750 MW turbo-generators, B. P. Anempodistov, E. G. Kasharskii, and I. D. Urosov (translated by O. M. Blunn) — Pergamon Press, The Macmillan Co. Introduction to information storage and retrieval: tools, elements, theories, Joseph Becker and Robert M. Hayes — John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, N. Y. Linear network design and synthesis, Wayne H. Chen — McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., New York, N.Y."
"Dr. Bronwell's premises are quite unrealistic in his article “Is Philosophy Off Limits?” (May issue, page 110.) Modern philosophy appears to be in the same onanistic circle with the other academic circles he criticizes. Philosophy is busy analyzing the (deep) meaning of its words, in a way very analogous to the way science is busy analyzing the meaning of its measurements. Each thus feels itself to be fundamentally limited by the state of the art of measurements. It is by no means self-evident, or even truly provable, that refinement of tools cannot lead to new worlds of knowledge and accomplishment. It can only be said that almost everyone interested in the arts and sciences spends most of his time this way, at least partly for the reason that he hasn't an idea for something better to do, and such activity has social approval and earns one a living."
"NOTE: 3-Digit Booth Numbers are at Hollywood Park; 4-Digit Booth Numbers are at Los Angeles Sports Arena. Firms listed with product listings and/ or illustrations have more information for you in their advertisements in this issue, or are regular advertisers in IEEE Spectrum or Proceedings of The IEEE not using this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Memorial listing for Hector R. Skifter, Preseident 1945-1964, Airborne Instruments Laboratory (AIL), a division of Cutler-Hammer, Inc."
"Portion of a computer print drum made from beryllium copper. The drum, after receiving a photo etch with alphabetic and numeric characters is used for the output mechanism of a line printer. Industrial Engraving Company of Easton, Pa., produces the drum. They make the engravings used in IEEE spectrum such as the one used to reproduce this illustration."
"Accumulators in Electric Lighting. “One of the commonest, and perhaps the simplest applications of accumulators to lighting work is found in their employment in connection with direct isolated plants in factories, office buildings, etc. In illustration of the method of applying accumulators in such cases, we may select as a type of this class of lighting one of those office buildings common in New York and other large cities.”"
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"As Editor Ryder indicated in “Spectral Lines” last month, the Editorial Board of IEEE has recently reorganized its activities so that the editorial content of Proceedings and Spectrum are the responsibility of Boards of Consultants. Since the responsibility for chairing the Board of Consultants of Proceedings has been assigned to me, it seemed desirable to take the opportunity provided by the Editor's absence to discuss some of the challenges and opportunities which face Proceedings."
"Because many of the engineer's chief problems have their origin in the management system, perhaps his philosophy should be applied to the management interface that couples engineering to the needs of society Management has been sharply distinguished from engineering in the literature even though both share common principles and philosophy. Although both management and engineering lie within the scope of IEEE, few articles have been published that reflect the social and managerial environment that shapes the selection, pursuit, and outcome of an engineering endeavor. Likewise, management articles seldom integrate the technical and psychological aspects into a comprehensive picture of the manager's role."
"Although it is still in its infancy, the science of radio astronomy is providing many techniques for gaining invaluable information about the universe In 1931 Karl G. Jansky, a radio engineer at the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Holmdel, N.J., discovered radio waves of extraterrestrial origin while studying the direction of arrival of thunderstorm static at 20 Mc/s with a rotating beam antenna.1 This event is of historical significance because it marked the birth of the science of radio astronomy."
"For the third time in thirty years, a major effort is being made toward the realization of the sixth wonder of the modern world, the Passamaquoddy Tidal Power Project Since the dawn of recorded history, man has been intrigued and puzzled by the phenomenon of the ocean tides that are caused by the gravitational pull of the moon and sun. About every four weeks — at the time of the new moon — the sun and moon lie in the same direction from the earth; and, fourteen days later, at the time of the full moon, these bodies lie in opposite directions. When either condition occurs, once every two weeks, the lunar and solar gravitation forces supplement each other to produce maximum, or “spring” tides. When the moon is at its quarter phases, however, the sun and moon subtend a right angle to the earth, as shown in Fig. 1. Their gravitational pulls oppose and partially neutralize each other, and produce minimal tidal ranges — or “neap” tides — that are only one third as high as spring tides. And when the moon is either new or full, and simultaneously in perigee, the tidal range is unusually great."
"The present state of the art and possible future trends in vocoder development are discussed both on the basis of further improvement to standard techniques and with reference to new approaches Synthetic speech systems which are designed to accomplish economies in transmission, or to meet special military needs, traditionally have involved some degree of degradation in the process whenever they involve bandwidth compression. If speech information can be successfully concentrated into narrower bands, the savings in channel capacity accruing from this procedure would be of great economic importance in reducing future capital investment in transmission systems."
"This second and final part of the article discusses the details of the FIST test instrument, examines the configurations of some typical transformation networks, and describes the stimulus generators, which are used to furnish the test signal when the normal signal input to a module is inadequate for test purposes The method for fault isolation by semiautomatic techniques developed at the National Bureau of Standards, to which the acronym FIST has been applied, is a diagnostic tool for rapidly isolating faults in a modularized, noncomputer type of electronic equipment without removal of the modules from the prime equipment. It seeks to reduce the down time required for maintenance by combining modularized equipment, which minimizes the time and skill required to restore system operation, with a rapid, simple method for isolating defective modules. Although it has been devised to permit the novice technician to check module performance without being required to interpret data, it can also be used by the skilled technician to isolate a malfunctioning module rapidly, without reference to technical manuals and without prior knowledge of the equipment being tested."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"The Creative Years. Much has been said and written in the last decade on the relationship between creativity and age among scientists and engineers. Several exhaustive studies have all arrived at the same general conclusion: on the average, the likelihood of outstanding scientific achievement peaks beginning in the late 30s or early 40s and thereafter declines."
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Please do not request copies of individual articles as they are not available."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department∗, 275 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"The six-camera television system of the Ranger 7 spacecraft was designed to provide a series of close-up views of the moon's terrain to assist in finding a landing site for future Apollo manned lunar missions. With the brilliant history-making success of the Ranger mission on July 31, the designers' hopes luminously materialized and a close-up glimpse of the moon's surface was brought to the living rooms of the world."
"Provides comments by Alvin B. Kaufman on the article in the May issue, \"Is Philosophy Off Limits\" by Arthur B. Bronwell; comments by Larry Dwon on the editorial in the September 1963 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (page 549); and a selection of authentic quotations from the laboratory reports of sophomores and juniors at a well-known university, submitted for amusement and edification as examples of spelling and thinking at the \"higher education level,\" provided by Allan F. Pacela."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The propagation of electromagnetic waves in the ionosphere and solar corona is of considerable interest to existing and future space scientific programs at AIL. Stanley H. Gross has been working in this area at AIL for some time and has completed research on the subject as a doctoral dissertation at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. The results of that research are explained briefly in this article."
"Prepositioned miniature circuitry grid with raised, weldable conductors. After the Intercon circuit is electroplated, the integral terminals — called tabs — are bent perpendicular to the circuitry plane. Component leads may then be welded to the raised tabs by the ultimate user. The tabs are positioned on 0.050-inch centers. The grid is a product of Amphenol Microelectronics, a division of Amphenol-Borg Electronics Corporation, situated in Illinois."
"Telegraphy. “I have noticed that nearly all operators, good and bad, are vain of their abilities to send rapidly, and nearly all are ambitious to send faster than the operator at the receiving station can write it down, or, in other words, to ‘rush’ him. This is especially true of young operators; but taking them collectively, I do not think there is a body of craftsmen in existence who work so willingly as telegraphers. Each seems individually impelled to ‘salt’ the man at the other end of the line, if possible, and when he succeeds in making him ‘break,’ he mentally records a victory and goes at it again with renewed vigor. To outsiders this self-imposed rapid pace may seem foolish, but to the knight of the key there is great glory in it. The great artist never lived, actor, orator or musician, whose soul was more thrilled at the plaudits of thousands, than is the soul of the expert telegrapher when with faultless and rapid transmission he humbles a great receiver by compelling him to beg for quarter.”"
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"The annual symposium of the IEEE Group on Sonics and Ultrasonics will be held at the Miramar Hotel in Santa Monica, Calif., October 14–16. Of particular interest is the fact that this year, for the first time, papers were solicited from an international group of workers in such fields as applied acoustics, microwave interactions with acoustic waves, and medical ultrasonics."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The 15th Annual Machine Tools Industry Conference, sponsored by IEEE, will be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel in Hartford, Conn., November 16–18. Plans are being made for an address by a representative of the Soviet Union, who will discuss the state of the art of machine tools in Russia."
"A forthcoming special issue of the Proceedings of the IEEE will be devoted to the field of radar reflectivity and is planned for the summer of 1965. Outstanding papers covering the state of the art and the most significant recent contributions in the field of radar reflectivity are sought for this special publication."
"The 6th Western Appliance Technical Conference, sponsored jointly by the Pacific Coast Subcommittees of the Domestic Appliance Committee and the Committee on Domestic Commercial Appliances, will be held in Los Angeles at the Rodger Young Auditorium on October 27."
"Donald G. Fink, General Manager of IEEE, has announced the sale of the IEEE's 79th Street property consisting of the buildings located at 1 East 79 St., 5 East 79 St., and 984 Fifth Avenue. The sale has been approved by the New York State Supreme Court as required under The Membership Corporations law. The buyers are Anthony and John Campagna."
"Things were running quite smoothly as they were. CEC's top oscillograph was far superior to anything seen before; and our customers were quick to recognize it."
"A call for papers has been issued for the First IEEE Annual Communications Convention, including GLOBECOM VII, which will take place in Boulder, Colo., June 7–9. The hosts will be the University of Colorado and the National Bureau of Standards."
"The IEEE Winter Power Meeting will be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel, New York City, the week of January 31 to February 5, under the auspices of the Power Group of IEEE."
"“Computers — Their Present and Future Impact” will be the theme of the 4th National Power Industry Computer Application Conference which will be held May 19–21, 1965, in Clearwater, Fla."
"A call for papers has been issued by the Third Congress of the International Federation of Automatic Control which will take place June 20–25, 1966, in London, England."
"Funds have been made available for one or more Charles LeGeyt Fortescue Fellowships for 1965–1966. The amount of the award has been fixed at $2500. The awards are made to postgraduate students in the field of electrical engineering who have received an appropriate baccalaureate degree from a duly recognized technical school."
"The 17th Annual Conference on Engineering in Medicine and Biology will be held in Cleveland at the Sheraton-Cleveland Hotel, November 16–18."
"The Tenth Tri-Service Conference on Electromagnetic Compatibility will be conducted by the Illinois Institute of Technology Research Institute in Chicago, November 17–19."
"The 11th National Symposium on Reliability and Quality Control will be held January 12–14 in Miami Beach, Fla., at the Hotel Fountainebleau."
"Four new societies have joined Engineers Joint Council — the Society of Women Engineers, Society of Fire Protection Engineers, Washington Society of Engineers, and the Hartford Engineers Club. They were elected to membership by the EJC Board of Directors at its spring meeting,"
"The 146-page supplement to the advance bound volume of papers for the First Technical Conference and Exposition on Underground Residential Distribution held in St. Louis, Mo., April 21–23, has just been printed. The two-volume set is now available at a price of $6. Orders should be mailed to the IEEE Order Department, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021."
"The establishment of a yearly Memorial Award has been announced by the administrators of the W. D. George Memorial Fund. The award is to be made for the best undergraduate student paper relating to instrumentation or measurement appearing in any of the IEEE publications within 18 months after the student has received the bachelor's degree."
"A limited number of contributed papers will be accepted for the Symposium on Unmanned Exploration of the Solar System which will take place February 8–10 at the Denver Hilton Hotel, Denver, Colo."
"The IEEE 7th Biennial Electric Heating Conference, will be held September 28–29, 1965, in Cleveland at the Carter Hotel. The conference will offer a program of technical value to users of industrial process electric heating."
"“Approaches to Power Engineering Education” will be the theme of the first program sponsored by the IEEE Power Engineering Education Committee at the American Power Conference, which will take place April 27–29 in Chicago."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"With Dean Ryder away this month traveling at high velocity through Europe, this issue of the “Lines” is undergoing a spectral shift, dropping into the zone occupied by the chairman of his spectrum board of consultants — obviously a shift toward the lower end of the scale. There is nothing, of course, that a member of the odd breed of characters known as “consultants” welcomes more than a slight hint he will be afforded a page on which to express his views. In fact, a slight hint is all that is needed, and he is particularly pleased when he can do this while momentarily out of range of the editor's blue pencil. It so happens, however, that two years' association with your editor in the delicate job of bringing spectrum into being and defining its objectives has brought about a fair convergence in the wavelengths emitted by our respective viewpoints. This month, however, I propose to put aside Jack's prism, and let you use mine. If the results are not entirely satisfactory, he will doubtless tell you and me about it on these pages in the following months."
"In the North Atlantic States alone, plants of almost 10 000 MW of pumped-storage capacity are either projected or under construction. The advantages of this power reserve concept are becoming ever more apparent to public utilities Electric power demand in the United States is increasing on the order of a geometric progression — doubling every decade. To meet this tremendous increase, numerous solutions for power production have been proposed such as power pools, larger and larger generators, and various hydro and nuclear schemes. Although the huge generators are very efficient, they are best adapted for high load factors and, therefore, the urgent problem of meeting peaking capacity has become extremely serious. Many investor-owned utilities have installed diesel, gas turbine, and stripped-down steam units to meet peaking demands, but these stop-gap measures operate at reduced efficiency and are costly to acquire and maintain."
"Microwaves for power (rather than communications) is today beyond a state of mere speculation. Interest in powering a hovering vehicle from the ground, power transmission via waveguides, and industrial potentialities have spurred the development of a technology that has already transmitted and utilized power efficiently"
"Transmission of electric power has been accomplished traditionally with the use of wire or cable. But now a new technology is emerging — microwave power engineering — whereby power is transmitted at microwave frequencies (X and S bands) without wires and through hollow pipes."
"Power transmission by microwaves is today beyond a state of mere speculation. Two concurring factors are responsible : general interest in improving the state of the art of microwave power generation, and the evolution of new techniques1 with which to accomplish the desired improvement. Fig. 1 indicates the great growth rate of microwave power at wavelengths suitable for microwave power transmissions. The recent growth rate at both X and S bands has been such that the power has nearly doubled every year since 1958. The power level at S band, for example, has risen by a factor of 25 over the period of the last five years to a level of 400 kW of CW power."
"High-power microwave transmission is hampered primarily by the relatively high transmission loss of waveguides. Because of the skin effect, the current flow in any guiding structure is restricted to very thin surface layers. Assuming one and the same current distribution on a conductor, the loss increases with the square root of the frequency. Therefore, efficient power transmission by microwave requires the transmission of wave fields or modes which are associated with very low currents on the guiding structure."
"As Goubau has already pointed out, the transfer of power between a source and collector by means of electromagnetic wave beams can be accomplished if there are beams whose (phase and amplitude) distribution in a transverse plane repeats itself at periodic intervals. That such beams exist had been theorized, and that they may be approximated in practice has been demonstrated in the last few years. The important work in this area was that of Goubau, who reported the invention of the beam mode waveguide in 1959.23 Since 1960, this work has been independently confirmed and extended by many others, notably workers at the Bell Telephone Laboratories. Confirmation of the theoretical results in the millimeter range (23 Gc/s) by the construction of a beam-mode transmission line was reported in 1961 by Goubau and Christian,21 while Brown and Heenan2 have transferred power utilizing these principles both in the millimeter range (36.5 Gc/s) in 1962 and in the S band (2400–3100 Mc/s) in 1963."
"The renaissance of serious interest26–28 in the transfer of power by radio waves is doubtless the result of technological gains in microwave radar and communication systems over the past 25 years, and also the more recent demonstration that microwave energy should be generated at power levels appropriate to some applications of wireless power transfer. In turn, the availability of microwave power focused attention upon the problems of developing an efficient RF-to-dc converter and upon antenna systems suitable for efficient power transfer. When the problems were solved, modest laboratory experiments were set up for the first time in the efficient transfer of meaningful amounts of power by means of a microwave beam and associated conversion components."
"Direct conversion of microwave energy into dc power is relatively new to research and development, probably because there was no need for a conversion device until its desirability was recognized in connection with power transfer by microwave beam. Lacking an efficient direct electric converter, early protagonists of microwave power transmission relied upon an approach that would first convert the microwave energy into heat, which then generated electric energy indirectly with the use of some type of heat engine. In addition to the complexity of this arrangement, the best expected overall efficiency from microwave power to dc power is well below 25 per cent."
"Growth in microwave power generation has been rapid, centering around two types of microwave tubes (see Fig. 29) — the klystron42 at X band and the Amplitron2 at S band. They are already capable of 200-kW CW and 400-kW CW, respectively. Present high efficiency of the Amplitron (> 70 per cent) is expected eventually to reach 80 to 90 per cent. The efficiency of the klystron is significantly lower (∼50 per cent) with 60 to 70 per cent probably on the way."
"The properties of coherent light have found practical application in the performance of many operations on signals. In addition to solving spectral analysis and filtering problems, optical techniques can be used for analog computations During the past decade, optical techniques have received increased attention from a growing number of physicists and engineers. This increased activity has stemmed in part from the invention of the laser and in part from a realization that optical configurations can be used to perform a wide variety of operations on signals. Moreover, methods have been devised whereby two-dimensional optical operations can be converted to a multiplicity of one-dimensional operations."
"A review of the past fourteen years' work in marine safety systems shows many major advances in fulfilling basic requirements. Characteristics of five complementary systems are compared. There are four basic marine safety requirements that, properly implemented, substantially improve safety in marine navigation and expedite the movement of ships. These four requirements, which I had the opportunity to set forth in 1950,1 and all of which could have been met even in 1950, are as follows: 1. The navigating officers of a ship should be able to detect both the relative and absolute position of all other vessels with which there is danger of collision. This calls for an adequate ship's radar. 2. It should be possible for the ship's navigating officers to establish contact and intercommunicate almost instantaneously with their counterparts on other ships within a range of at least 20 or 30 miles. Also, the same capability should exist between ships and shore stations concerned with supplying navigational and operational information or the control of marine traffic. 3. When there is intercommunication between the officers of two vessels within radar range, it should be possible for those on either vessel to identify on the radar scope the response representing the other regardless of the presence of a number of vessels in the immediate area. 4. The navigating officers of a ship should know the ship's position at all times. The degree of accuracy required is dependent upon the position of the ship with respect to shore as well as upon other conditions affecting safety."
"Within the last hundred years, the United States and several of the Western European countries have made a transition from a predominantly agricultural society to a technological society. And since such changes — which affect the total society — are exponential in rate, this transition is most evident over the last 25 years."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Intelligibility. To measure the degradation in intelligibility that occurs when speech is passed through a communications system, it is necessary to use a human observer. Just how long that must continue to be the case remains to be seen, but it appears that the days of the human observer may be numbered."
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Please do not request copies of individual articles as they are not available."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department∗, 275 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"Some of the phenomena and effects associated with nuclear explosions can be studied in the laboratory with the aid of an “exploding wire” system."
"The first U.S. automated cargo ship was recently delivered to the Moore-McCormack Lines of New York City. Destined to carry cargo and passengers between New York and Scandinavian ports, the 550-foot 5.5. Mormacargo made maritime history and introduced a new era for the merchant marine."
"The “Olympic” satellite Syncom III (third in a series of spin-stabilized satellites) swung into synchronous orbit recently over the Pacific. Its launching on August 19 involved a complex series of space maneuvers."
"The nation's first multidisciplinary approach to the development of an artificial heart has been initiated by surgeons at Baylor University College of Medicine and engineers at Rice University."
"American industry uses almost as much synthetic polymer material, by volume, as steel. Synthetic plastics are widely employed because as insulators they are virtually incapable of conducting electricity. In recent years, chemists have learned how to “tailor-make” plastics to achieve the best combination of high strength, low cost, and other advantages required for structural, decorative, and protective uses."
"A data processor with a main memory made entirely of thin-film storage elements has been made commercially available. The new system can process approximately 100 000 instructions per second and can control a wide variety of input-output equipment geared to the changing needs of the user. The internal memory is made up of cylindrical thin-film rodlike magnetic storage devices instead of the conventional doughnut-shaped cores. The basic cycle time is 800 nanoseconds. New peripherals include a 120-kc/s magnetic tape handler, a 1000-line-a-minute printer, and other input and output devices."
"In July the President released a report entitled “Toward Better Utilization of Scientific and Engineering Talent.” The report is one requested by President Kennedy in 1962, through his Science Advisor, because of increasing concern as to whether the technical manpower base was adequate to meet the Nation's complex needs. These questions arose particularly from three related considerations — manpower requirements for a rapidly growing Federal research and development enterprise, especially for the space effort; the Soviet Union's production of engineers with Ph.D. and B.S. degrees at a rate much greater than that of the United States; and the decline in U.S. enrollments in engineering schools."
"The highest continuous power thus far obtained (at the time of writing) from gas lasers has been achieved at Bell Telephone Laboratories, where outputs of one watt have been measured from a helium-neon laser at a wavelength of 6328 Å — a tenfold increase in output power over previous gas lasers."
"For use aboard a satellite or deep-space vehicle, a sun-pumped laser has been announced that needs no electric power and no cryogenics, and that would weigh less than 20 pounds in flight configuration. Using reflected energy from a lightweight parabolic solar concentrator, the proprietary device has produced a CW output of 25 mW at 300°K in ground level sunlight; an improved model in space sunlight could produce powers greater than one watt CW. The concentrators are electro-formed from nickel to give light weight and accuracy. The diameter of each is 30 inches, but only half that area is needed to provide laser threshold. The circle-of-confusion measurement in the 30-inch concentrator is one mm."
"Serious doubt has been cast on the basic physics law of time reversal invariance by a Princeton University experiment performed with Brookhaven National Laboratory's giant particle accelerator. (The time reversal invariance law holds that physical laws remain unchanged when the direction of time is reversed.)"
"In the interest of reducing passenger check-in time, an all-electronic check-in and load control system is being developed by Pan American Airways for installation at the John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York."
"The Symposium on Microelectronics and Large Systems, cosponsored by the Office of Naval Research Information Systems Branch and the Univac Division of Sperry Rand Corporation, will be held November 17 and 18 of this year. The symposium will be conducted in the auditorium of the Department of the Interior Building, C Street between 18 and 19 Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C."
"At various ground stations, hundreds of miles below the satellite Nimbus, peaceful uses of space are being made. Professional weather observers and interested amateurs are receiving weather photographs beamed from the automatic picture transmission (APT) apparatus, with the use of simple receiving sets and facsimile recorders. The same data are received by the military single-purpose sets but the cost is thousands of dollars more in the latter use."
"Advertisement: Jobs at XEROX."
"Advertisement: Pan Am Guided Missiles And Range Division."
"If you are an employer and are interested in a listing under our “Men Available” column, under the New York office section, write to the New York office, listing the applicant's number, and a copy of his résumé will be mailed to you immediately."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisements."
"Far-field pattern obtained from a helium/neon continuous-wave laser operating at 6328 angstrom units. Because the unaltered laser spot is small and bright, a lens was used to enlarge the beam and effectively reduce the intensity or energy density. The spot was magnified by passing the beam directly through a camera lens and onto a photographic plate. This photograph is from a paper “Interference Fringes and Laser Systems,” by C. L. Rudder and D. L. Hayler of the Douglas Missile and Space Systems Division, presented at the 1964 National Electronics Conference, and scheduled for publication in the Proceedings of the Conference."
"Hysteresis. “The question of hysteresis is of very great importance from every point of view. We know that we can measure the amount of energy which a converter absorbs in a given time; and we can measure also the amount of energy that it delivers during the same interval. We have then to deal with the remainder of energy absorbed by the converter uselessly; and this is to be found, first, in a purely frictional resistance to the current, whereby the energy is transformed into heat; and second, in the effect of the magnetism there is in the current producing the magnetic lag and eddy currents. It is of the very highest importance that we should be able to separate those two forces; and the paper before us gives very important suggestions by means of which we can carry that differentiation into effect. The Foucault currents can be reduced sufficiently by diminishing the cross-section of metal at every point; and we know that in good transformers such currents can be reduced to a minimum; but what we do not know is the quantity of energy which is being absorbed in the hysteresis under the conflicting conditions which are perpetually occurring.”"
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"The new IEEE Magnetics Group will start operations beginning January 1, 1965."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Chicago and NEC. Continuing its practice of occasionally meeting in coincidence with Regional activities, the IEEE Board of Directors met at National Electronics Conference time in Chicago this year. That organization again proved a capable host, although the time available for hospitality on a crowded agenda was not great. The NEC provided another view of the myriad interests and technical capabilities of our membership, as well as the educational value of such exhibits in providing a ready, comprehensive review of latest advances in the field."
"The pace of electrical development makes it difficult to realize that only a century has elapsed since publication of the laws of electromagnetic action by the genial Scotsman. Maxwell is linked with Newton and Darwin — a Cambridge triumvirate who fundamentally changed the world's concepts of physical reality James clerk maxwell was born on June 13, 1831, in Edinburgh into an upper-middle-class home; his father was a practicing attorney and a descendant of the Lords Maxwell. (The year 1831 was also the year in which Faraday discovered and announced electromagnetic induction.) Maxwell spent his youth and was educated by private tutors at an estate in Scotland called Glenlair, a modest mansion house of grey stone located in wooded country about seven miles from Castle Douglas. From the age of 10 until he was 16 he attended the Edinburgh Academy. His scientific interests were awakened early; while still at the Academy, when he was only 15 years old, he prepared a paper on advanced geometry that was accepted and read by Professor Forbes before the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Later Maxwell matriculated at Edinburgh University, where he specialized in mathematics, physics, and chemistry. He remained at Edinburgh from 1847 until October 1850, when he transferred to Peterhouse College, Cambridge, but switched to the university's Trinity College so that he might obtain a Fellowship in mathematics. From his position as Fellow of Trinity, he advanced to the post of professor of natural philosophy at Marischal College and the University of Aberdeen. At Trinity, Maxwell won the honors of Second Wrangler and became Second Smith's Prize Man in 1854."
"The tunnel cathode is a promising development in the search for a cold emitter. Ideally, it should operate at high current densities, low cathode power, low noise, and at low temperatures. High-frequency modulation of emission is also possible A research effort has been under way in various countries in recent years, with regard to the development of electron emission from cold, solid-state devices into vacuum, an insulator, or a semiconductor. The term “cold” in this connection is used to describe devices that emit electrons at operating temperatures of approximately 300°K and below. This is in contrast to the emission of electrons from a heated material in which the electrons receive the excess energy necessary for their emission exclusively from their equilibrium with the thermal vibrations of the heated host body."
"It has been brought to the Editor's attention that the article \"Adaptive Antenna Arrays\" by R. W. Bickmore in the August 1964 issue of IEEE SPECTRUM was based in large measure on material written by D. L. Margerum for a forthcoming book. The Editor regrets that Mr. Margerum, his employer, and the publishers of the book did not receive proper credit, and is pleased to publish the following note from Dr. Bickmore: 'My recent SPECTRUM article \"Adaptive Antenna Arrays\" was essentially an abridgment of Chapter 7 of the book Microwave Scanning Antennas, Volume II, soon to be published by Academic Press, Inc. This chapter, entitled \"Self Phased Arrays,\" was authored by Mr. D. L. Margerum of Electronic Specialty Company, Los Angeles, Calif. It is sincerely regretted that explicit acknowledgment was not given to Mr. Margerum and Academic Press, and it is a pleasure to do so now.'"
"Many practical applications are predicted for superconducting dc motors and generators. This article presents the simple theory of operations and loss mechanisms of the dc generator, and discusses methods for minimizing these losses Most of today's superconducting dc generators were designed for energizing large superconducting electromagnet systems, for energizing multiple concentric-coil magnets by single pumps, and for energizing tuning magnets by a system having adjustable tuning control.1–5 The chief advantage of the dc generator is the avoidance of the large input leads that would be required to carry heavy currents from external sources to superconducting devices. Because these leads can produce high heat losses, the problem becomes more significant as superconducting wires having higher current-carrying capacities are developed."
"In which a system of logic in communications is evolved for the hierarchy echelons of large corporations, and wherein the digital computer plays vital parts — from executing the command decisions of the C-in-C to the robotlike obedience of a rear-rank private. Over the past few years the writers have been developing and perfecting a method for studying communication in large social organizations. Our method, called the Leviathan, comprises a theoretical framework, a system of computer programs, a series of experimental simulations in a laboratory, a repertory of experimental controls, and quantitative measurements of organizational performance. The simulations are conducted over a period of three calendar months, and they employ from 20 to 30 subjects who interact with hundreds of robots and with each other through a computer that operates on-line and in real time. This method enables us to mold individuals into effective, coherent social organisms, and to carry out programs of experiments on the evolving and developing social organizations."
"This month a new electronic data-processing facility is being installed on the first floor of the United Engineering Center. The conversion to the new facility should be completed in March"
"Tokyo, Japan, was the location of the International Conference on Microwaves, Circuit Theory and Information Theory (ICMCI) held from September 7–11, 1964. The conference was sponsored by the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan (IECEJ), supported by the International Scientific Radio Union (URSI) and the Science Council of Japan, and held in cooperation with five other organizations — SFER (France), VDE (Germany), IEE (United Kingdom), IEEE (United States), and AS (U.S.S.R.). More than 900 registrants participated in the conference, and of this number, 256 were from 16 overseas countries."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"The New Astronomies. The exploration of the universe, probably the most evocative of all of man's enterprises, has had a great technological impetus in this century. Until a few decades ago, man's knowledge of the universe outside the earth came almost entirely from optical astronomy observations. During the last three decades, astronomical observations at radio wavelengths have created a new branch of science called radio astronomy. The older astronomy in the visible spectrum is now often called optical astronomy to distinguish it from the newer branch."
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N.Y. 10021. Please do not request copies of individual articles as they are not available."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department∗, 275 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, N. Y. 10021. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"New design concepts have been introduced recently that may help electric power companies to overcome the problem of unsightly transmission lines, substations, and other power structures."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Communication and Electronics. Published bimonthly by The Institute of .Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., from 20th and Northampton Streets, Easton, Pa. IEEE Headquarters: Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y. Address changes must be received at IEEE Headquarters by the first of the month to be effective with the succeeding issue. Copies undelivered because of incorrect address cannot be replaced without charge. Editorial office: 345 East 47th Street, New York 17, N. Y. Nonmember subscription $10.00 per year (plus 50 cents extra for foreign postage payable in advance in New York exchange). Member subscriptions: one subscription at $6.00 per year; additional annual subscriptions $10.00 each. Single copies when available $1.50 each. Second-class postage paid at Easton, Pa. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., assumes no responsibility for the statements and opinions advanced by contributors to its publications. Printed in United States of America Number of copies of this issue 8,500."
"This paper describes the design, features, and performance of a 1-picofarad 350-kv (rms), atmospheric-pressure air capacitor. Built in 1961 in the High Voltage Laboratory of the National Bureau of Standards, it is a part of a continuing program of high-voltage measurements, at power frequency, using capacitance ratio dividers. The immediate need was for its use in an interlaboratory comparison test of a 359-kv voltage ratio transformer, between the National Research Council of Canada and the National Bureau of Standards. The present paper supplements another paper which describes this test.1 Details of the complete capacitance divider, and of the measuring bridge and its use, are contained in this reference. The capacitor was considered to be an interim item which, besides filling the immediate need, would give experience with the method and test the capacitor design."
"A bridge has been designed that is capable, in principle, of measuring multi-terohm resistance values. For measurements above 1010 ohms, the ratio arms of this bridge are formed using a Y circuit. When converted to the equivalent delta, this circuit simulates the large ratio values necessary for measurements above the terohm level. The primary advantage of the circuit is that all resistors within the bridge, none of which is greater than 1 megohm, are wire-wound; this results in inherent accuracy and stability."
"DURING THE PAST few years interest in underground communications has been growing since such systems, particularly if they are installed far below the surface, are inherently invulnerable."
"Dial teletypewriter exchange (TWX) stations utilize a data set for converting d-c telegraph pulses to a-c signals suitable for the telephone network. This discussion of the dial-operated TWX station highlights four separate areas of interest concerning this data set and the over-all station design: (1) how the frequency-shift-keyed (FSK) circuitry operates to convert d-c to a-c signals; (2) how the station control circuitry performs within the system; (3) experimental data-transmission test results; and (4) packaging and equipping the complete unit."
"The effects of natural radio noise upon the performance of ground antenna systems are examined. After the spatial and spectral properties of some major sources of radio noise are described, the results of a comprehensive program of machine computation of antenna temperature are analyzed. These results and those of a recently completed noise measurement program are used to evaluate the carrier-to-noise ratio (c/n) at ground receiving antennas tracking a space probe and a medium-altitude satellite. From published maps of galactic brightness temperature, from flux-density spectra developed with data on thermal and nonthermal radiation from the planets, and from recent models of the solar atmosphere, antenna temperatures have been computed for apertures ranging from 30 to 1,000 feet at frequencies between 60 and 30,000 mc (megacycles)."
"The Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) system is offered as an example of one type of electronic system which will be considered for telephone networks of the future. This system can be developed for use in the controlled switching between subscribers connected to offices by PCM highways. The problems of mutual blocking of time slots on the highways and synchronization of different switching systems can be solved by using speech storage samples. Rearrangement is used to reduce to zero the blocking which occurs in the time division center. A brief description of the apparatus in the system is also included."
"The problems encountered in telephone transmission from delay distortion, crosstalk, noise, signal simulation, etc., take on greater meaning when applied to a high-frequency switching system. The difficulties in operating 2-wire low-frequency circuits into a high-level 4-wire data network are also discussed. These problems are overcome by a variety of methods, which are described. Although the techniques employed are not basically new, their application in a broadband system is essentially unique."
"To prevent signal imitation through the transmitter, on touch-tone subsets, the register-sender of the broadband switching system sends an enabling tone to the previously muted transmitter at the calling station. It provides for either multi-frequency or dial pulsing on either line-originated or trunk calls, responds to 1-, 3-, 7-, or 10-digit addresses, provides for code-conversion, deletion, and prefixing, and terminates the connection in case of outpulsing error."
"The energy associated with extremely-high-frequency photons of laser communication systems decreases their efficiency in transferring a given rate of information as compared to conventional radio systems. The increased efficiency made possible by narrower beamwidths at visible light frequencies more than compensates for this photon energy factor. However, if reliability in reception is to be maintained, extremely narrow beamwidths are forbidden unless elaborate and costly precision tracking gear is used and the receiver position is known to a high degree of accuracy. The 8- to 13-micron infrared range is optimum for space communications."
"A generalization of the Kautz method of orthonormalizing a given set of exponentials is described. The generalized orthonormal exponentials provide flexibility which may be used in some signal representation applications to design bases of lower dimensionality than would be required by the earlier method."
"RELIABILITY of the ideal communication systems should be independent of the noise and time-varying characteristics of the continuous channel. Noise as an additive disturbance is, in a sense, external to the physical channel. On the other hand, time-varying channel characteristics produce multiplicative disturbances which directly involve the channel itself."
"THE PHENOMENON of negative resistance is so well known that it requires only a cursory review. Negative resistance elements or networks are distinguished by driving-point resistance characteristics which exhibit, at least over a limited portion of the current-voltage (i-v) plane, a falling voltage with increasing current. In general, devices which exhibit a negative resistance region over some portion of their i-v characteristic curve may be separated into two classes. The first class includes all elements with an inherent negative resistance region, such as the point-contact transistor, unijunction transistor, p-n-p-n transistor, tetrode vacuum tube, and tunnel diode. The second class includes all the networks in which one or more active elements are used in conjunction with passive elements arranged to maintain a predetermined function of current and voltage. This group includes all the devices which may be synthesized by utilizing positive feedback and such circuits as the complementary transistor cascade and the negative impedance converter. It should be understood that a physically realizable negative resistance is not the opposite of a positive resistance. For a positive resistance, the i-v relationship is an interdependent one, but for a negative resistance, the element utilizes an internal phenomenon which depends only on the potential or only on the current. Therefore, a 2-terminal negative resistance device comprises an internal energy source which is controlled either by the current through or the potential across its terminals, but not by both."
"This paper describes a 9-bit digital-to-analog converter operating at a speed of over 12 mc (megacycles). This converter has achieved signal-to-noise ratios greater than 53 db (decibels) for a full-range sinusoidal signal, which is only 3 db less than theoretical 9-bit performance. The techniques used are: extremely accurate components with wide frequency response used in an appropriate weighting network; fast digital circuitry producing low noise waveforms: and a resampling technique."
"This paper discusses the process of magnetization and the eddy-current losses in saturated cylinders subjected to a sinusoidal magnetic field. Maxwell's equations are solved in cylindrical co-ordinates for an assumed magnetization curve B = Bs sign H. This leads to a transcendental equation which is solved by numerical analysis; the results are normalized and given in the form of curves from which losses and power factor can be found easily. Tests made on an experimental core are in agreement with calculated results. Comparisons are made with other theories also."
"The operation of a d-c chopper circuit using a silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) is analyzed. A description is given of a saturating reactor (SR) and capacitor which is used to extend the conducting interval of the controlled rectifier and then turn it off. Some useful variations of the basic circuit also are presented. Emphasis is placed upon the waveforms produced, and typical oscillograms are shown. The specific circuits analyzed employ a variable repetition frequency to control load voltage, but the modifications necessary for operation at a fixed frequency with variable “on” time are also mentioned."
"An extrapolation of available data on photoionization is used to make calculations for determining the probability of releasing succeeding electrons at the cathode in a Townsend breakdown of a sparkgap. These calculations indicate that photoionization is a plausible secondary mechanism in a Townsend breakdown of gaps of the order of 1 cm (centimeter) at atmospheric pressure, and also that, when an over voltage is applied to a gap, photoionization is greatly increased and can account for very rapid breakdown."
"Simple relations are derived for the approximate calculation of thermal stresses and strains. With these relations some considerations on the cracking of silicon are given and the mechanical fatigue endurance of hard and soft soldered devices is assessed. Results of the calculations agree reasonably well with observed fatigue properties. Measurements show only slight changes of electric characteristics by mechanical stresses. An increase of solder thickness at the base might improve the fatigue performance of soft soldered devices. A fatigue test for solders is proposed."
"In an earlier paper, a general procedure was described for obtaining explicit solutions for the element values of single-element-kind networks. A matrix formulation was given for obtaining a system of simultaneous multilinear equations representing the externally observable behavior of the network. In this paper a “path” concept is introduced which leads to a systematic topological method for obtaining the same “modified” system of equations directly from the graph. This method avoids the cumbersome problem, implicit in the well-known topological formulas, of counting trees. The pertinent system determinant is expressed by compact topological representations derived from the key subgraph of the network. In addition, a greatly simplified solution procedure for the “key” subset of the system of equations applicable to such networks with two internal nodes is given. An example is included."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Applications and Industry. Published bimonthly by The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., from 20th and Northampton Streets, Easton, Pa. IEEE Headquarters: Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y. Address changes must be received at IEEE Headquarters by the first of the month to be effective with the succeeding issue. Copies undelivered because of incorrect address cannot be replaced without charge. Editorial office: 345 East 47th Street, New York 17, N. Y. Nonmember subscription $17.00 per year (plus 50 cents extra for foreign postage payable in advance in New York exchange). Member subscriptions: one subscription at $6.00 per year; second annual subscription $8.50. Single copies $2.25 each to members, $4.50 each to nonmembers. Second-class postage paid at Easton, Pa. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., assumes no responsibility for the statements and opinions advanced by contributors to its publications. Printed in United States of America Number of copies of this issue 4,000."
"ZENER DIODES have come into wide use in the last few years as working standards of electromotive force (emf) for many applications. They have been used to replace standard cells in recording and controlling equipment and are, in some cases, being used as a standard at the 0.01% level. Interest is also being shown in their use as a reference standard of emf at the 0.001 and 0.0001% levels."
"THE BASIC FUNCTION of a marker is to provide the controls for connecting a switching-unit inlet to an outlet by way of an available idle path through the switching unit; this paper describes the three types of markers, line group, trunk group, and group selector, used in a common-control space-divided central-office telephone system, the No. 1 Electronic Automatic Exchange (E-A-X∗) developed by Automatic Electric Laboratories. The E-A-X markers also provide class-of-service facilities, automatic number identification, and alternate routing. Use of reliable semiconductor electronics and high-speed matrix switching has reduced marker holding time and, therefore, the amount of common equipment necessary."
"In order to apply common control features in Bell System step-by-step (SXS) offices, an interconnecting link is necessary between the line finders and the common control equipment. The features of a new crossbar link designed for this purpose are described, and the following technical and economic considerations are discussed: traffic-handling capacity, minimization of control circuitry, emergency control transfer, controlled access to Touch-Tone or rotary dial registers, and flexibility of equipment for use in various office sizes."
"MAINTENANCE PERSONNEL in an electromechanical telephone office, particularly the direct-controlled type, are generally able to see what is going on and to diagnose any troubles that may develop by using standard test apparatus. Of course, this is not possible in an electronic telephone exchange, and it is necessary that the equipment itself pinpoint each fault as far as possible and describe it in terms that will assure proper action by the maintenance personnel."
"Impedance of satellite antennas has been measured throughout the orbits of several satellites by means of a standing wave system, which is a lumped-circuit equivalent to the slotted-line impedance-measurement technique. Impedance data from a recent satellite, ranging in altitude from 240 to 1,000 km (kilometers), have been used to calculate the electron density of the ionosphere. On the sunny side of the earth, this density was found to be a function of the latitude and altitude; on the dark side, it was found to be nearly a constant."
"IT IS generally recognized that the exposure of microwave relay stations to lightning is much greater than ordinarily experienced by most other types of communication plant. Relay stations are usually situated on isolated sites where there is no readily available means of grounding such as extensive buried piping systems found in urban areas. Furthermore, the nature of the location, frequently a rocky peak with little ground cover, not only makes it difficult to drive earth electrodes, but such efforts within economical limits usually do not provide an effective low-resistance ground. At an attended switching point, the station may have a drilled well. Frequently, however, such wells do not provide low-resistance grounding and are only useful supplements to other necessary grounding measures which will be discussed later."
"The arrangement of Bell System step-by-step (SXS) offices to provide Touch-Tone calling and common control features, either individually or in combination, is described. If either feature is provided first, the other can be added conveniently at a later date. Advantages of translation, code conversion, alternate routing, and multifrequency outpulsing in step-by-step offices are described; the central office equipment which is required in order to provide the Touch-Tone calling and common control features will also be mentioned."
"The recently developed incoherent and “lasing” optical semiconductor radiators have considerable potential for specialized applications in the space environment. The attractive features of these radiators are their small size and weight, high efficiency, narrow beamwidth, and capability of being directly modulated with high-frequency continuous waveforms or short pulses. In this paper, these characteristics are discussed and the communication range capability is determined using a photomultiplier as a receiver. The communication range may be limited by background noise, detector noise, or noise generated by the signal itself. The range equations resulting from these various conditions are presented. Two illustrative examples are given: (1) communication with a transmitter located on the sunlit lunar surface; and (2) communication with a transmitter against the night sky background."
"The general relation between a Boolean function and its dual is discussed and dual-comparable (dc) functions and other concepts are defined. How these properties of general Boolean functions are reflected on majority functions is shown also. This wider viewpoint gives some insight on which properties of majority functions are intrinsic. Then there is discussion on the necessary and sufficient condition for realizability of a majority function in the language of a functional form as well as miscellaneous properties of majority functions when they are expressed with prime implicants."
"The complex properties of square-loop magnetic devices allow them to be used in a surprising number of different applications. Multipath magnetic elements, in particular, can be used to achieve nondestructive memory-read systems, as well as all magnetic logic systems in which networks of such elements are interconnected with only ordinary electric wire.1 In this paper, another capability of magnetic elements is presented which further increases the spectrum of magnetic circuit possibilities; this is the use of magnetic elements for switching analog signals."
"IN A RECENT paper,1 Caldwell, Gage, and Hanson reported numerous data on the transient effects of radiation on transistors, gave a theoretical explanation of most of the observed effects, and developed a simple equivalent circuit to pave the way for the future use of a computer to solve the problem of the effects of transient radiation on a complex circuit."
"In this paper, relative electric field gradient at the edge of an electrode in a 4-electrode system is evaluated by the Schwarz-Christoffel (S-C) transformation. Several cases for different spacings between the electrodes and with different potentials are analyzed and results presented in the form of curves. The Monte Carlo technique was used to evaluate the integration constant, and results show that the field gradient is relatively high if the edge lies within a narrow range which should be avoided if high stresses are to be eliminated."
"In 2.12 minutes, an IBM 7090 program found four input tests (for an 8-input parity check circuit) whose outcome determines whether any one of 102 possible failures occurred. For any single-output combinational circuit, with no more than 35 input variables, the program computes the set of all inputs detecting a given failure — the essential novelty of the method. These sets, one for each failure, are then processed to find a small subset of tests which detect any failure. The underlying method extends to the diagnosis of circuits with feedback."
"For reliable operation of a silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR), the equipment designer has to guard against the localized junction heating which occurs when an SCR is switched into a high anode current. The heating effect is described and two methods are presented to guide the designer as to the maximum values of current that may be used."
"Techniques have been developed to fabricate a magnetic film memory which operates with drive currents of 20 ma (milliamperes) and is, therefore, compatible with other molecular-type integrated microcircuits. The following approaches are used to achieve these objectives: drive wire width and magnetic film width are reduced to 0.005 inch, new electrodeposited magnetic film compositions which require less drive field are used, drive and sense wires are evaporated with alternate layers of silicon oxide (SiO) to give a multilayer thin film structure which reduces drive requirements and noise, and shape anisotropy is used to lower drive requirements. The theoretical basis for this new development, which lowers power requirements for film memories by an order of magnitude, will be presented, and experimental data will be shown in detail."
"THERE HAS BEEN interest recently in the use of delay lines as memory elements. One possible form of such a memory is a multiplex of magnetic thin films on a delay line.1 Such arrangements have not been extensively analyzed."
"The power output of the electromechanical pulser is primarily limited by the armature self-inductance. A shielding scheme is developed and analyzed by means of which the armature self-inductance is reduced by two orders of magnitude and consequently the power output is increased by the same amount. Utilizing this scheme it is shown that, for 1-millisecond pulses, power outputs of the order of 100 mw (megawatts) per cubic meter of the armature volume are possible."
"THESE ratings and test codes represent the work of the respective working groups since the issuance of Proposed Test Procedure for Magnetic Amplifiers, AIEE No. 433, Nov. 1959. The work included in AIEE No. 433 has been incorporated into Section 3 of this proposed standard in revised form as a consequence of industry experience with the proposed test procedure. In addition, bistable amplifiers are included."
"A method is described which can be utilized to automate calculation of the area under dilution curves. Based on this method, an analog computer has been designed for on-line computation of dilution curve areas. The circuitry and mode of operation are described, and the limitations of the instrument are discussed. Two semiautomatic methods of dilution-curve area calculation are demonstrated."
"Crystallographically oriented, thin magnetic films are shown, from theory, to possess switching characteristics ideally suited for use in a noncoincident-current word-organized memory. These switching characteristics are derived from the theoretical critical curves for rotational single-domain switching for materials with biaxial or mixed biaxial and uniaxial anisotropy. The effect of domain wall motion and incomplete switching are discussed, and some preliminary experimental results are presented."
"Future applications of magnetic thin films to computer circuitry will require the use of integrated deposited circuitry, which involves depositing magnetic films and associated electrical circuitry on the same substrate. It is verified that the extremely close coupling between a magnetic film and a surrounding deposited loop in this configuration results in 100% flux linkage with the loop. The dependence of the observed flux linkage of the deposited loop on the loop circuitry is studied; the effect of width, thickness, and separation of deposited loop conductors on high-speed film switching is investigated; and the relative importance of circulating loop currents and eddy currents in the conductor materials in slowing film switching is evaluated."
"THE BASIC PURPOSES of the relays associated with a power transmission system are: to detect any fault within the system, to localize the fault distinctly to a particular section of the system, and to cause that section to be disconnected without interfering with continued supply to the remainder of the system.1,2 In order to appreciate the relaying problem, the two familiar types of power system structure shown in Fig. 1 should be examined. In a radial system, a load fault can often be detected simply from the existence of an overcurrent; however, if the load contains transformers with high inrush currents on excitation or motors with high starting currents, it may be desirable to delay tripping the breaker, either by a finite time or by a time inversely dependent on the current. If a fault occurs in line section C-D of Fig. 1, all line relays will indicate an excessive current. But, since only the breaker in line C-D should operate, service to the other loads may be maintained. Thus, it is necessary to delay operation of the breaker in line B-C until the breaker in line C-D has had sufficient time to open, and provision must be made for the time-current co-ordination of the line relays."
"An instrument is described which is capable of measuring angles of rotation as small as 10−8 radians with respect to a reference plane. The high sensitivity is achieved by measuring the internal field of a thin Permalloy film as the film is rotated in relation to a reference static bias field. The internal field is measured by observing the low-frequency ferromagnetic resonance of the film. Brief descriptions of the instrumentation, consisting of a marginal oscillator, selective amplifier, phase detector, oscillator, and power amplifier, are included; sensitivity is determined by using the instrument as a readout mechanism for a seismometer."
"This paper shows that the use of ferrite cores in second-harmonic magnetic modulators enables established theories of harmonic generation to be used with little modification in quantitative design. A theory of harmonic feedback is developed to describe the effects of signal winding loading, and performance figures for a practical modulator excited at 50 kc are given. In addition, an outline is given of the transistor circuits used with the modulator."
"AN ALL-MAGNETIC shift register and logic scheme, using 2- or 3-holed ferrite transfluxors and resistive coupling windings in its operation, has been extensively described in past literature.1,2 Employment of multiapertured magnetic cores in such circuits has appreciable appeal from a fabrication standpoint over equivalent circuits utilizing toroidal cores and additional coupling windings. The latter, however, are advantageous in the initial development of a logic scheme since adjustments in geometry and relative proportions of elements can be made, either by changing windings and grinding, or selecting cores from stock."
"ANY METHOD adopted to control the attitude of an artificial terrestrial satellite must be a function of the mission for which the satellite is intended. For short-lived satellites, the almost universal method has been to remove unwanted angular momentum by exhausting mass through a gas-jet nozzle. For long-lived satellites, studies have investigated the possibility of using the earth's magnetic field to dump unwanted angular momentum by controlling the magnetization of a portion of the satellite.1,2 These studies have been directed particularly toward control of earth-referenced satellites suitable for communication or weather-observatory applications, for example."
"This paper describes a technique of determining the internal flux distribution in a multiaperture core by mapping the fringing magnetic fields in the vicinity of surface discontinuities, which are introduced into the core face by partially slitting the core. The field mapping device employed is a high-resolution Hall probe, used in conjunction with a chopper amplifier and a phase-sensitive detector. By mapping the component of magnetic field normal to the core face in the region of the slot, a characteristic field pattern dependent upon the direction of flux in the core is observed. In regions of reversal of the internal flux, there is a corresponding reversal in the characteristic field pattern. The boundary separating regions of opposite magnetization in a partially switched core has been defined to within 20 microns. Data are presented showing typical fringing field patterns observed for totally switched and partially switched cores."
"Self-saturating magnetic amplifiers are being built widely for all industries and for service equipment. Although the source frequency is generally 50 or 60 cps (cycles per second), occasionally 400 cps or 10 kc is used to improve the figure of merit. The maximum output is 3,000 kva (kilovoltamperes) in the saturable reactor, and the minimum input is 10−16 watts in the magnetic-modulator type of amplifier; the former is used for the temperature control of an electric furnace, and the latter for the instrumental servomechanism. External feedback amplifiers are still used in variable amplification, and those of the fast-response type are appreciated in servo amplifier use. As core materials, oriented silicon-steel is suitable for magnetic amplifiers of large output capacity since oriented 50% nickel (Ni), 50% iron (Fe) alloy is expensive, and molybdenum-Permalloy is preferable for small input amplifiers. Magnetic amplifiers are used at present for noncontact relays, operational amplifiers in analog computers, magnetic-type oscillators, self-excited a-c generators, etc. They are expected to find application in digital computer elements, in special-configuration magnetic circuits, and in unique circuits in which magnetic devices are combined with semiconductor elements."
"It is well known that the oxide-coated cathode in a well-activated hydrogen thyratron is capable of sustaining a current density in excess of 20 amp/cm2 (amperes per square centimeter) for pulse durations of 1 μsec (microsecond) or less. It is also known that, as the pulse length increases, the emission density at which arcing occurs decreases. The current capabilities of oxide-coated cathodes in hydrogen thyratrons were experimentally evaluated at pulse lengths of 5, 30, 110, and 1,000 μsec, and a number of different tube sizes were used. At a constant pulse width, it was found that the current density at which arcing occurred was related to the cathode-coating resistance and that the limiting factor was a maximum power-dissipation density; the power density at which arcing occurred was related to the pulse length. The use of this dependence to determine the cathode current capability at any pulse width is discussed."
"D-C NOISE results when the recording medium has been magnetized by a d-c field, which may be produced by a record head, a permanent magnet, or a solenoid. Modulation noise is the variation in reproduced amplitude when an a-c signal of constant amplitude is recorded. Bias noise occurs when a-c bias is applied to the record head with no signal current. Bulk-erased noise appears when the medium has been thoroughly demagnetized by a cyclic field. It occurs because the magnetic medium is not continuous but is composed of individual magnetic domains or particles; each of these always remains fully magnetized, and only the direction of magnetization can change. When the medium is demagnetized on a macroscopic scale, equal numbers of particles are magnetized in opposite directions so that the net magnetization in any one direction is zero. The magnetic field from each particle will still couple to the reproduce head, thus giving rise to the basic or bulk-erased noise which occurs when the medium is demagnetized on a macroscopic scale."
"THE LITERATURE on the application of magnetic devices in systems where memory and control functions are mechanized has been greatly expanded. Some basic properties of certain magnetic cores, such as high-remanent flux states and the rectangularity of the flux-current loop, are unique features which make these devices well suited to binary-logic circuits; magnetic cores are often combined with transistors to form hybrid circuits which use the outstanding features of both devices."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Communication and Electronics. Published bimonthly by The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., from 20th and Northampton Streets, Easton, Pa. IEEE Headquarters: Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y. Address changes must ·be received at IEEE Headquarters by the first of the month to be effective with the succeeding issue. Copies undelivered because of incorrect address cannot be replaced without charge. Editorial office: 345 East 47th Street, New York 17, N. Y. Nonmember subscription $10.00 per year (plus 50 cents extra for foreign postage payable in advance in New York exchange). Member subscriptions: one subscription at $6.00 per year; additional annual subscriptions $10.00 each. Single copies when available $1.50 each. Second-class postage paid at Easton, Pa. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., assumes no responsibility for the statements and opinions advanced by contributors to its publications. Printed in United States of America Number of copies of this issue 9,000."
"THE MAXIMUM speed and security of a telecommunications system is limited by the bandwidth of the system. Bandwidth B is related to rise time tr of the received pulse by trB = K where K is a constant. As the bit duration tb decreases to within one or two multiples of tr, the security of any given binary threshold decreases or may cease to exist. Security of transmission under conditions of link perturbation and the closeness with which tb may be allowed to approach tr will be described in terms of the intrinsic security of the carrier methods and equipment, the intrinsic security of various binary decision criteria, and the error-detection and error-correction capabilities of a coding system."
"A transmission set which responds to changing link conditions with automatic accommodations in bit rate and coding is described. The basic capability of the system is a simultaneous twin decision on each incoming bit: (1) a binary decision as to whether the bit is “1” or “0” and (2) an auxiliary binary decision as to whether the bit is equivocated (gray) or not gray. The analytical relationships between bit grayness and bit error and also bit grayness and bit rate are explored. On the basis of these relationships, the quantitative criteria for speed and code changing requests are developed. The ability of the set dynamically to accommodate the basic information rate to a prescribed security level in the face of changing link conditions is then shown."
"IN JUNE 1960, the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario inquired whether the United States National Bureau of Standards (NBS) in Washington could measure for them the ratio and phase-angle errors of a 350-kv voltage transformer then being built to their order. This request was also made at about the same time of the National Research Council of Canada (NRC) in Ottawa. Neither laboratory had, at that time, made calibration measurements on instrument transformers at this voltage level, but both had given the problem considerable thought; and it appeared that the request by Ontario Hydro afforded a unique opportunity not only to examine some of the problems involved in voltage-ratio measurements at 350 kv, but also to compare measurement results between the two national laboratories."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of suitable standards for the maintenance of impedance and admittance has been along two separate lines. One of these lines is based on the concept of 4-terminal measurement, which requires a standard to be provided with two current and two potential terminals. This technique has long been used with low d-c resistances, and may be applied directly to the measurement of small mutual inductances. The technique results in the elimination of uncertainties caused by variations in contact impedances. The other line of approach is applicable to very high impedances in which case even a very low stray admittance between the terminals could change appreciably the apparent impedance of the standard. The effect of stray admittances is eliminated by shielding the standard and making measurements in such a way that stray admittances to the shield are not included in the measurement. The technique is most often applied to the measurement of low capacitances; this standard is called a 3-terminal capacitor. The technique is also feasible for use with very high d-c resistances."
"A magnetic d-c ratio device is described which is capable of attaining accuracies approaching one part in a million. The operating characteristics and some of the problems connected with its design are discussed and construction details of an experimental model, rated at 4,000 ampere-turns and capable of handling ratios up to 400/1, are given. The use of this device for the scaling of fundamental electrical resistance standards is proposed."
"The Telstar satellite is a spherical spin-stabilized satellite which is a microwave repeater for intercontinental communications. It is an efficient non-demodulating repeater with an intermediate frequency centered at 90 mc (megacycles). Telemetry data from the communications circuits and from the radiation experiment are transmitted to the ground station, while vhf (very-High-frequency) signals from the ground actuate switches to reduce battery drain between passes. The spherical shape of Telstar provides an isotropic solar cell array and permits a nearly isotropic microwave antenna pattern. The electronics, which are packaged inside a hermetically sealed container, are isolated thermally with respect to conductive heat transfer and vibrationally from the satellite frame. A thermally activated bellows mechanism controls the temperature of the electronics chassis."
"In 1955, the Bell System initiated a program for developing the necessary methods, tools, and materials to permit construction of economical buried telephone distribution plant. The buried installations up to that time were generally costly, compared with conventional aerial plant, and were in most instances restricted to very-high-priced residential areas. The postwar development of plastic insulated conductor (PIC) cable and the associated ready-access type of terminations made the prospects quite promising. This paper summarizes results achieved to date and describes those methods, tools, and materials which have produced the best results. The term “telephone distribution” includes the subscriber loop plant from the central office to the customer's premise. Urban (in contrast to rural) denotes a built-up area, served by a network of metallic underground utility pipes which tends to act as a ground network in the event of lightning. Methods, tools, and materials used in urban and rural installations are basically the same except that added precautions must, in many instances, be included to prevent lightning damage in rural areas."
"Engineering the exchange outside plant cable network is becoming more complex due to the increasing number of technical innovations and the demands posed by new services. This trend is expected to continue and may well be accelerated in the future. A digital computer is well suited as a tool to help the engineer with the routine analysis work which is necessary to reinforce existing networks and to introduce new systems in the most economical manner. This paper describes a method of applying a high-speed computer to assist the engineer in the detailed analysis of exchange cable network relief and extension problems."
"The growing requirements for transoceanic communication indicate the need for a satellite communication system. This paper describes the Telstar experiment plan and objectives. The design of the communications system is described, showing the interrelation between satellite capabilities and ground station requirements. The factors determining the initial orbit and attitude; techniques for predicting satellite position, attitude, and eclipse times; and attitude measurement and control are discussed. Good correlation between predicted and measured satellite attitude is shown. The plan for acquisition and command tracking of the satellite, and a typical operations schedule of the Andover ground station are presented."
"FOR MANY YEARS, carrier telephone systems utilizing single- or double-side-band amplitude modulation have been applied to balanced pairs in telephone cables or to open-wire pairs."
"Presented in this paper are ideal asymptotic performance characteristics for two types of multireceivers, the coherent adaptive multireceiver and the noncoherent multireceiver. The transmitter, for the system, is one which selects for transmission one of two equiprobable, equal energy correlated waveforms. The selected waveform is transmitted into the Rician fading multichannel with additive Gaussian noise superposed at the receiver end. The multichannel may take on one of four forms, i.e., it may change from one of a completely random nature to that of a completely fixed nature. All intermediate forms are permissible."
"This paper describes a class of new electromechanical switching devices, the ferreeds, which were developed for use as crosspoints in telephone switching networks. The ferreeds are characterized by-high-speed operation, sealed noble metal contacts, small size, and ability to respond to co-ordinate excitation. The choice of materials, magnetic circuits, winding configurations, as well as the experimental techniques, are discussed; existing types of ferreed devices are shown together with the pertinent performance data."
"Among the most important components in the general area of electromechanical devices are relays, which after many years in use continue, in modern form, to be essential elements in Bell System and military applications, including electronic switching systems. The most important recent developments are miniaturization, sealed contact relays using glass-enclosed contacts, and “remanent”-type devices. Ferreed and bipolar ferreed co-ordinate arrays and individual units are new and important switching elements. They make use of miniature glass-enclosed contacts in combination with “square-loop” magnetic material, such as ferrite or certain iron alloys. They are magnetic “latching” units and are operated or released by short pulses."
"Life data have been used to test the merits of methods for estimating life from corona measurements on unaged cable and to determine the significance of corona specifications. Required life is generally 1011 cycles of applied voltage. Life with corona is 7×108 cycles or less. Without corona, life is 1011 cycles even at extreme voltage stress. Radio-frequency cable may be used wherever required life is less than 108 cycles and voltage is below twice the corona starting voltage if materials and processing are in control. Such control is demonstrated in the results of a 1-day 60-cycle life test. Then, expected life is predicted from corona data assuming that the number of corona discharges to failure is constant. The effects of temperature, frequency, voltage, materials, fault types, and cable construction are described. The statistics of cable life are discussed."
"A study is made of the penetration of a-c flux into magnetic materials with a B-H relation which possesses saturation, but not hysteresis. Maxwell's nonlinear equations are derived for the case where directions of B-H coincide and remain constant except for complete reversal, and H is assumed to vary between equal and opposite limits. Penetration of such fields into semi-infinite solids and into plates of finite thickness is considered, and proper boundary conditions are derived. Solution of the linear, constant-permeability case is reviewed, and various methods of integrating the nonlinear Maxwell equations are presented. Solutions, based on approximate, numerical, finite-difference methods have been programmed on high-speed computing machines, and carried through successfully."
"In this paper, attention is called to certain problems which are extremely primitive conceptually, and yet exhibit certain features quite relevant for study in the field of artificial intelligence. These issues are presented with the belief that realistic study of them can provide approaches to artificial intelligence. Turing machines are used to present the problems. By this means, the concept of optimality is introduced. The paper then addresses the problem of discovering optimal machines using programmable methods. The requirement for proofs of methods is emphasized. Apparent ways of limiting the difficulties encountered are shown to be deceptive. Finally, the effect achieved by changing the required format is illustrated."
"Some common analytical and numerical techniques of finding the maximum or a minimum of multivariable functions are presented. The analytical methods given are Lagrange's method of undetermined multipliers, linear and dynamic programming; the numerical methods given are the univariate, factorial, steepest-ascend or-descend, and direct search. Wherever possible, examples are worked out to illustrate the applicability and the limitations of the method as well as the mechanics of obtaining a solution."
"A mathematical model of the continuous annealing process has been developed to implement the computer control of an annealing line. The model has been used to derive control equations for interim control of the line during the testing period for the model. Comparison of operating practices with the practices prescribed by the control equations indicates that the equations are sufficient for control of the line, when supplemented by a closed-loop feedback control system. These equations therefore have been utilized as the basis in the development of the steady-state and the dynamic optimizing control schemes."
"Eric T. B. Gross (Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N. Y.): The discussion on page 355 of these Transactions (July 1963) was printed there by mistake. It was not prepared for the paper published on pages 346 to 354, but submitted as discussion of another paper1 in order to establish the historical facts for these methods of finding the equivalent impedance of two impedances connected in parallel, which were missing in that other paper.1 All the methods in the paper under discussion, on pages 346 to 354, are based on the early work of Orlich2 and of Rukop.3 Figs. 1 and 3 on page 347 are the methods suggested by Orlich.2 Fig. 10 on page 349 is the more general method suggested by Rukop.3 The original papers by Orlich and Rukop contain full proofs of all their constructions."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for IEEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until March 25. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies for each discussion should be sent to Edward C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc, Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York, NY, USA, on or before March 25."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Communication and Electronics. Published bimonthly by The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., from 20th and Northampton Streets, Easton, Pa. IEEE Headquarters: Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y. Address changes must be received at IEEE Headquarters by the first of the month to be effective with the succeeding issue. Copies undelivered because of incorrect address cannot be replaced without charge. Editorial office: 345 East 47th Street, New York 17, N. Y. Nonmember subscription $10.00 per year (plus 50 cents extra for foreign postage payable in advance in New York exchange). Member subscriptions: one subscription at $6.00 per year; additional annual subscriptions $10.00 each. Single copies when available $1.50 each. Second-class postage paid at Easton., Pa. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., assumes no responsibility for the statements and opinions advanced by contributors to its publications. Printed in United States of America Number of copies of this issue 7,500."
"IN THE BELL System's No. 101 Electronic Switching System (ESS), also known as the electronic private branch exchange (PBX), a single centrally located unit has been designed to control the operation of a maximum of 32 remotely located switch units.1,2 The control unit will be located at a central office, while the switch units each will be located in a different PBX customer's office. A particular switch unit may serve up to 200 lines, while the control unit may accommodate up to 3,200 lines."
"A new electronic private-branch-exchange (PBX), known as the No. 101 Electronic Switching System (ESS), has been developed to provide telephone switching service for business customers. A field trial system has recently been installed. This system is compatible with existing station and central office equipment and provides presently available telephone services. In addition, it takes advantage of the inherent speed of electronic devices and has improved flexibility for providing a continually increasing and changing set of new service features. The separation of the switching and control functions permits relatively small remote PBX's to share the common control economically. This paper describes the over-all system and serves to coordinate other papers1–3 which describe in more detail the system design and operation."
"This paper describes the “Building-block” circuits used for logic, and the semipermanent (program) and variable (“scratch-pad”) data storage systems used in the control unit of the Bell System's No. 101 Electronic Switching System (ESS).1,2"
"This paper describes the organization and circuits of the private-branch-exchange (PBX) switch unit and discusses the maintenance and equipment design. The time division concept is reviewed and actual transmission results are also presented in this paper."
"AT 9 P.M. Eastern Standard Time on August 31, 1962, the largest system-wide cutover in the history of telephony took place. On that date, some 60,000 teletypewriter exchange stations (TWX) in the United States were successfully cut over to dial operation. This paper describes dial TWX service and some of the engineering considerations that made the project the success it was."
"THE DECADE following the end of World War II saw an unprecedented growth in the number and extent of private-line teletypewriter systems; this was accompanied by technological developments aimed at efficient utilization of intercity lines, speed and security of message delivery, facility of message preparation, and flexibility of operation. The trend was toward increased automation and full employment of the switching techniques which were being developed in the communications industry."
"A STATE-OF-THE-ART review through 1959 on effects of nuclear radiation upon magnetic materials was published by Gordon1 in 1960. This paper supplements that review by summarizing the significant data since obtained at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory and elsewhere on reactor and charged-particle irradiation effects on both soft magnetic materials and permanent magnets. New results obtained by the authors on recovering magnetic properties of proton irradiated iron and 5–79 Mo-Permalloy also are presented."
"The advent of the SCR (silicon-controlled rectifier) has made possible a new concept of power supply for use in resistance welding. The operation of the pulse power supply is described functionally and the basic subcircuits are discussed. Several circuit variations are indicated which provide different system characteristics."
"CONTROL of d-c power is used in most industry and defense systems. A new technique for controlling d-c power is called TRC (time-ratio control).1–7 The TRC operates by rapidly turning on and off current from a d-c source of power. After filtering the resulting pulses of current, a d-c voltage is provided that is less than the source voltage.4–7 In some applications,1 voltage is stepped up above the source voltage."
"THIS paper presents a new “lock-out” technique for TRC (time-ratio control) circuits. This technique assures SCR (silicon-controlled rectifier) turn-off under extreme circuit operating conditions and it can also provide a synchronizing function."
"An a-c voltage control technique is described that eliminates the third and fifth harmonic voltage present in the a-c load-voltage waveform of a 2-controlled-rectifier or transistor d-c to a-c single-phase inverter. The addition of two more controlled rectifiers or transistors to the basic circuit makes it possible to control the fundamental frequency component of the a-c load voltage from maximum to zero without reintroducing the third and fifth harmonics. The same technique can be used in a 12-controlled-rectifier or transistor d-c to 3-phase a-c inverter. In the case of the 3-phase inverter, the lowest harmonic of the fundamental frequency present in the line-to-line a-c voltage is the eleventh."
"THIS PAPER describes a read-write nondestructive read-out (NDRO) ferrite-core memory system with a 1.5-mc (megacycle) read cycle and a 160-kc write cycle. The evolution of this system (Fig. 1) was a result of demand on memories by higher speed data processing."
"IN 1936, a simplification of the magnetization curve that was intended to facilitate the explanation of the pre-saturation phenomena led to the development of a d-c instrument transformer having genuine current-transformer characteristics. It was found that the assumption of a rectangular hysteresis loop for the combined effect of d-c and a-c magnetization would fulfill the condition of strict equality of the primary and secondary magnetomotive forces (mmf) of the transformer, at least periodically. This applied to all types of current transducer circuits."
"Because of its short turn-off time, the silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) can be turned off by means of capacitor discharge pulses and, therefore, it can be used not only to switch on heavy currents, but also to switch them off. This holds true for high operating frequencies as well as for an almost unlimited number of switching duties. As a result, the possibility arises of a pulse technique with new methods of both contactless and continuous speed control of d-c and a-c motors; this technique, in turn, presents new possibilities for the inverter-type speed control of 3-phase motors."
"The design criteria for magnetic recording tapes are considered with respect to the desirable physical and magnetic characteristics for high-resolution recording systems; in particular, the magnetic properties of the universally used iron-oxide powders are compared with possible competitive permanent magnet materials. The properties of oxide and metal powders and of metallic thin films are compared, and the possibility of their future use in high-output high-resolution tapes is also assessed in this paper."
"After pointing out the state of standardization and rulings on transductor terminology in Germany, technical data on transductors in the power range of 1 va (volt-ampere) to several thousand kilo volt-amperes (kva) are briefly reviewed. The areas of the electronic power field and the regulation techniques in which the transductor has succeeded in Germany are shown in a number of applications; combinations and comparisons with transistors and controlled silicon rectifiers are described."
"A CONTINUING impetus to advance the technology of static energy-conversion methods is being provided by the demands of our and other nations' rapidly expanding programs of space exploration. Not only the various environmental considerations, but more particularly, the stringent reliability requirements serve to justify the considerable research effort being direct toward the development of static methods for the generation and processing of electric energy for spacecraft."
"This paper examines the influence of magnetic tape, read-write head, and other recording parameters on peak shift encountered in high-density recording. In particular, the effect of prior erase polarity on peak shift is discussed. A technique for examining the remanent moment in a sample of the recorded tape track as a function of write current, density, and angle from the plane of the oxide coating is described."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"1EEE Transactions on Communication and Electronics. Published bimonthly by The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., from 20th and Northampton Streets, Easton, Pa. IEEE Headquarters: Box A, Lenox Hill Station, New York 21, N. Y. Address changes must be received at IEEE Headquarters by the first of the month to be effective with the succeeding issue. Copies undelivered because of incorrect address cannot be replaced without charge. Editorial office: 345 East 47th Street, New York 17, N. Y. Nonmember subscription $10.00 per year (plus 50 cents extra for foreign postage payable in advance in New York exchange). Member subscriptions: one subscription at $6.00 per year; additional annual subscriptions $10.00 each. Single copies when available $1.50 each. Second-class postage paid at Easton, Pa. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., assumes no responsibility for the statements and opinions advanced by contributors to its publications. Printed in United States of America Number of copies of this issue 8,500."
"A new line of teletypewriter equipment, the Model 32/33 station sets, has been developed specifically to meet the needs of light-duty applications. Achieving low cost through design, manufacturing techniques, and limits on versatility and service life, these attractively styled machines are a valuable addition to the printed communications industry."
"DURING NORMAL conversation, a speaker hears himself externally through the air and internally through his head; these two paths produce what is known as sidetone When a speaker uses the telephone, a third sidetone path results from electrical connection between the transmitter and receiver of the telephone handset. The sidetone paths which occur during these two modes of conversation are shown in Fig. 1."
"THE REGISTER SENDER group in the Electronic Automatic Exchange (E-A-X∗) which was developed by Automatic Electric Laboratories provides all services customarily available in existing registers, such as receiving, storing, processing, and extending the necessary information to insure the proper routing of a subscriber call. Its functions include the acceptance and storage of both local and incoming dialed information and the extension of the appropriate routing digits to the E-A-X switching sections. In addition to these services, the E-A-X register sender will provide many features rot available in existing equipment."
"TO MAKE ONE-MAN multifrequency loss measurements, a special signal generator is required at the central office. The design principles of a dual-output automatic-cycling reference-level generator are discussed. Auxiliary equipment provides selection of different frequency groups, cycling through alternate test signals and terminations, and so forth. Two simple measuring sets developed for use with the multifrequency generator are described. Graphical plotting methods show sufficient correlation to make point-by-point measurements superfluous in most cases."
"SEVERAL AUTHORS have published data concerning the influence of the substrate surface on crystal size,1 crystal structure,2 and the formation3 of thin magnetic films. Substrate surface roughness and cleanliness also influence crystal structure and growth of thin magnetic films.4"
"Measurements have been performed on the angular dispersion in thin magnetic films of Permalloy; an analysis shows that apparent dispersion should exist, even in perfect films, because of demagnetizing fields and magnetization buckling. The analysis and experiments confirm that, in many film samples, dispersion caused by demagnetizing fields is predominant. A phenomenological dispersion theory based on domain rotation, Nee'l wall formation, and demagnetizing fields is proposed. This theory predicts that the apparent dispersion angle and the apparent amplitude dispersion of Hk increase with an increasing demagnetizing field. The theory is found sufficiently accurate to serve as a useful engineering tool."
"MEASUREMENTS of noise spectra on a conventional unequalized tape recorder give results such as those shown in Fig. 1, where the root-mean-square (rms) noise was measured on a 1/4-inch full-track unequalized recorder at 15 inches per second. Three types of noise can be distinguished: the noise from bulk-erased tape; noise, similar in spectrum shape but some 15 db (decibels) higher in level, from uniformly saturated tape; and noise, with a pronounced 20-db peak at long wavelengths, from tape magnetized non-uniformly by feeding direct current into the record head. The first type of noise can be attributed to the magnetic particles themselves, the second to imperfect particle dispersion (bulk inhomogeneity), and the third to variations in contact between the surfaces of the tape and the record head.1"
"THIS PAPER reports the results of studies on improving the characteristics of storage integrator cores used to enhance target detection capability in Doppler radar systems. The cores integrate the total spectral output (reflected signals plus noise) of the radar receiver, effectively summing only those repetitive reflected signals (target echoes) above a predetermined threshold. The cores in use at the beginning of these studies did not integrate ideally, even over a 10-msec (millisecond) integration period, but they represented an improvement over what could be achieved practically with other types of integrators. The cores serve as envelope detectors (amplitude demodulators) and, also, perform the initial data organization requirements for presentation at a computer interface. Performance of this multiple function imposes unusual requirements on the integrator core, but a unique solution, using magnetic tape-wound cores, was proposed.1 The envelope detection is performed by utilizing the variable threshold characteristic of metallic tape-wound cores. Data organization advantages, such as easy access and selection, are inherent in magnetic-core wiring schemes, and the signal integration characteristic is satisfied through the use of specially annealed 50% Ni−50% Fe cores of ultrathin tape which exhibit a progressive magnetization tendency under appropriate drive conditions. The purpose of this paper is to present detailed information on the method evolved for testing integrator cores and give new results on extending the usable integration time to 50 msec."
"A system for modulating the output of a thermionic generator and delivering a high-voltage alternating current to the load is presented. After optimizing the mode of operation, equations for the maximum conversion efficiency are derived. For a given anode work function and cathode temperature, it is shown that for sinusoidal output the maximum a-c efficiency is equal to approximately 70% of the corresponding d-c value."
"The memory cycle time and size capabilities of destructive read-out (DRO) film memories are examined on the following bases: an assumed memory-element geometry which can be easily fabricated, a memory organization which minimizes propagation delays per element, the gain bandwidth product of drive and amplifying devices, the switching speed of magnetic films (including the effects of eddy currents), the recovery time from digit-line transients, and the limitations of demagnetizing fields. The results show that, depending on the size of the memory and the capabilities of the drive and amplifying devices, the memory speed can be limited chiefly by propagation delay, electronic delay, or the magnetic-film switching speed. The analysis indicates that memories with 106 bits of storage and cycle times less than 100 nsec (nanoseconds) could be achieved with existing devices."
"THE CHOICE of magnetic material for use in magnetic amplifiers is related to the requirements placed upon the amplifier. In the case of low- and medium-performance amplifiers, any good ferromagnetic material may be suitable; for high-performance amplifiers, however, the ferromagnetic core material must more closely approximate that which is considered the ideal magnetic material for magnetic amplifiers. Such an ideal material would be characterized by high saturation flux density, zero differential permeability in the saturation branch of the dynamic hysteresis loop, infinite permeability below the knee of the loop, and losses and coercive force that approach zero.1,2 Thus, silicon-iron, which has a high saturation flux density compared to other magnetic materials such as Deltamax (an oriented 50% Ni−50% Fe alloy), finds little use in high-performance magnetic amplifiers because of its relatively high coercive force and lack of loop squareness, particularly in laminations less than about 0.004 inch thick. Deltamax, which has a lower saturation flux density than silicon-iron, is used to a considerable extent in magnetic amplifiers because it has lower coercive forces and higher values of squareness than silicon-iron. The advantage of the higher saturation flux density of most silicon-irons is lost when the material is used in a magnetic amplifier. Yet, because of its high saturation flux density, silicon-iron would be useful in magnetic amplifiers if the a-c coercive force were lower and the induction at low magnetizing forces were higher. Such improvements in magnetic properties of silicon-iron have been obtained by utilizing and controlling differences in surface energy to act as the driving force for crystal growth.3–5 Sharply improved (110) [001] crystal orientations, compared to commercial-oriented silicon-iron, have been obtained in sheets and tapes of high-purity silicon-iron from 0.001 to 0.012 inch thick.3"
"A core memory designed for operation in a real-time missile-borne computer consists of a parallel 64-word by 64-bit unit. Its principal features are its high operating speed, a 0.25-μsec (microsecond) access time and 0.80-μsec cycle time, and its capability of optimum operation over the temperature range from −5 to + 125 C (degrees centigrade). This memory utilizes linear word selection, partial switching of the cores, and a special compensation feature on the sense windings to achieve the high operating speeds. Optimum operation over the temperature range is achieved by controlling the width of the memory drive pulses as a function of the ambient temperature."
"THE NONLINEAR characteristics of rectangular-hysteresis-loop magnetic cores have often been usefully combined with the nonlinear large-signal characteristics of transistors. A particularly fruitful combination is the magnetic-coupled multivibrator in which two switching transistors are combined with suitable windings on a single square-loop core.1–3 A significant contribution to this class of square-wave inverters is found in the work of R. L. Van Allen,4 who employed two square-loop cores to control output frequency. These cores were made to operate on asymmetrical minor loops by means of a bias from a constant current source. More recently, W. A. Geyger5 obtained variable frequency characteristics in a magnetic-coupled multivibrator by employing a saturable reactor controlled by an autotransformer in parallel with the load. Since these various magnetically coupled multivibrators have been thoroughly analyzed and discussed in the literature, their operation will not be reviewed in this paper."
"THIS PAPER discusses the effects of applying a voltage between electrodes immersed in a plasma of low-density gas. Attention is focused primarily on the case of two electrodes of highly unequal area with a d-c potential difference of up to approximately 150 volts. The relation of the experimental work to the situations which might exist with a hypersonic vehicle during re-entry into the earth's atmosphere has been emphasized."
"The power required by magnet excitation, and the requirements of the particle accelerating system of a particle accelerator, are affected by the time variation of the magnet voltage e1 with time. The design of a particle accelerator necessitates the calculations of i, e1 i, di/dt, B, dB/dt, etc., under different assumptions for the shape of e1 as a function of time. This paper outlines two methods, applicable respectively to long-hand and computer calculations, which, in addition to the time variation of e1, permit taking into consideration the variation of the incremental inductance Ls with saturation. From the discussion it will be apparent that any desired degree of accuracy can be attained."
"For analysis purposes, a multi-path core is divided into legs (a toroid is a single-leg core); flux-switching models for a leg are calculated from material parameters and leg geometry. These models include: (1) static φ(F) curve, assuming hyperbolic B(H) functions; (2) elastic switching in saturation, φε = ∊FR, where ∊ = ∊(F); (3) inelastic switching, φ = ρ(F-F0), where ρ = ρp[1−(φ/φs)2] for a constant-width leg; (4) ρt(φ) of a tapered leg; and (5) the average ρ and ρt for partial and full switching."
"When Helmholtz coils produce a uniform field, access to the uniform region may be hindered for vision or apparatus by one of the two coils. “Half-Helmholtz coils” have been devised to remove this hindrance. By using opposed compensating coils, nearly all of the coil bulk is moved to one side of the operating plane. Also described is a new sectorial coil idea that should greatly facilitate the experimental approach to magnetic lens design when such compensating coils are used."
"An experimental method has been developed to determine the properties of a thin magnetic film deposited on a wire. The film has a nominal circumferential easy axis; a deviation from this direction is defined as skew, while a local distribution of the direction is defined as dispersion. To give information on skew and dispersion, a method of displaying an envelope of pulsed signals is shown. In magnetic memories, short lengths of the wire are magnetized. The influence of local demagnetizing fields is shown to be important in interpreting the display and assigning value to the anisotropy field. The effects of creep, an increase in length of the magnetized section with repeated pulses, are considered."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"This paper documents the design and performance of a proposed unified carrier, range-tracking, and communications system for cislunar ranges in which phase-locked loop techniques are used in the spacecraft to relate received and transmitted carriers coherently. The design of the composite angle-modulated carrier waveform for the spacecraft-to-ground link has been accomplished by using a statistical method of waveform design. The pseudonoise ranging code is biphase; telemetry is pulse-code modulated (PCM); and voice is frequency modulated (FM). The “best” selection of modulation parameters and frequency locations for the various functions has been determined by a method of successive iteration. The unified carrier system has been tested for a simulated lunar mission for spacecraft velocities of 36,000 ft/sec (feet per second), and the results indicate that the statistical method of waveform design used is practical for this case."
"Systems engineering for a communications network is a complex art involving the proper balance among planning, service criteria, and equipment systems, as there is extensive interplay among these elements during the entire engineering effort. The objective is to plan for the optimum economic balance between the provision of channels and the provision of switching for a given set of service criteria; flexibility is essential for dealing with the changing requirements for communications services in a changing environment."
"This paper discusses the conversion of telephone-line supervision signals into digital logic signals, and the subsequent storage and control of the dialed information, in a telephone switching system using time-division multiplex techniques. Emphasis is on the analyzed-signal timing tolerances and minimization of the logic control functions of the register. Reuse of storage elements for multiple functions on a time discrimination basis and the elimination of logic stages to reduce series delay are also discussed."
"IN DESIGNING the No. 1 Electronic Automatic Exchange (E-A-X∗), Automatic Electric Laboratories tried to anticipate requirements for many years to come with a system that would be flexible enough to accommodate smoothly any new services that might be required. Experience had shown that such a system would necessarily have many elements of common control. As the nationwide telephone system becomes one large direct distance dialing (DDD) network and more and more calls are handled on an extended area service (EAS) basis, it requires sophisticated equipment (registers, translators, senders) to convert subscriber-dialed digits into switching instructions. If such facilities for storage and translation were provided electronically, it would be relatively easy and inexpensive to employ them for special services that might not be economically practical with present-day equipment. Such special services therefore became another objective of this development."
"IN COMMON-CONTROL systems, the telephone number dialed on a call merely identifies the destination of the call in terms of a uniform numbering plan; the dialed digits cannot control the switching operation directly. A translator is required in order to determine, by referring to information previously stored, the proper routing of the call and the controls required for completing the call over this route, and then to initiate these controls. The information required for such translation may be stored by making appropriate connections within the switching equipment (e.g., on distributing frames and in jumper fields); this is the method employed in electromechanical switching systems. The information may be said to be permanently stored, since it can be changed only by rearranging the jumpers."
"During 1960 a co-operative test program was conducted to study the effects of power contacts on communication plants consisting of multiple wire, open wire, cable, and associated protectors and wiring. This information is required to engineer safe joint use of higher capacity power systems and some of the newer communication facilities. The characteristics of power and communication plant under certain power fault conditions have been determined."
"This paper will discuss four basic types of subscriber instruments for an electronic solid-state switching system which meet functional requirements of a communications complex to provide the interface between the switching-system and voice-frequency inputs; these basic types include multiline instruments, manual-and remote-controlled teletype, radio, and other unattended machines. Unique packaging techniques and component standardization resulted in full compliance with military, mechanical, environmental, and reliability requirements. Compatibility requirements for a switching network were achieved by using ample safety factors in satisfying limits on signaling and transmission. A high degree of simplification was obtained by choosing d-c supervisory circuits between subscriber stations and switching centers and by using standard solid-state logic elements."
"WHEN AUTOMATIC Electric Laboratories undertook the development of the Electronic Automatic Exchange (E-A-X), the end product of the development, the switching system and its hardware, was planned to be manufacturable and economical under present conditions. The factors of reliability, maintainability, compatibility, practicability, and availability, coupled with their economic aspects, determined the course of the development and removed it from the experimental realm.1"
"A design task begun in January, 1960, has resulted in the delivery of a new 4-wire solid-state switching system. This represents the first application of a fully electronic switchboard to provide real-time switched communications in an operational military network; fixed-site and mobile switching centers, as well as a variety of special and general purpose subscriber instruments, are included in the switching system. This paper presents a general discussion of the application, concept, and configuration of the over-all equipment; detailed descriptions of the major equipment groups are available.1–4"
"This paper describes a portable transistorized transmission test set capable of measuring small amplitude and delay distortions of television transmission facilities on a straightaway basis; it measures distortions in the 12–330-kc range bymeans of a sweeping twin-tone signal. Sync pulses are provided for clamper operation when required."
"This paper provides an analysis of the Bell System noise units, the International Telephone and Telegraph Consultative Committee (CCITT) noise units, and their absolute power and interfering relationship. Clear and concise definitions of the terms used by each are included. The weighting curves of each system, based on 1,000 cycles for the Bell System and 800 cycles for the CCITT, are included for clear explanation of the noise equivalence between the two systems and to enable engineers to convert miscellaneous tones to weighted decibel-adjusted (dba) values. Some examples in the use of Table I for the solution of noise problems within the scope of these two systems are included."
"This paper describes the system organization utilized in electronic private branch exchanges (PBXs) presently in production. It briefly reviews a switchboard already installed and discusses basic design philosophy. Typical system specifications are given and the relationship of the voice transmission path to the common control is examined, along with a step-by-step description of the common control; the paper concludes with an outline description of the electronic private branch exchange (EPBX) installed at Ripon, Wis."
"The necessity that large numbers of people confer by means of communication facilities has been steadily increasing; in fact, many military communicators have indicated that such conferencing is absolutely mandatory. The system presented in this paper is a 4-wire manually controlled conference switchboard specifically designed to provide the features required for supporting such conference situations. The use of 4-wire facilities is described in such a manner as to stimulate further investigation."
"A magnetic-field switching array was developed in the laboratories of Siemens for application in space-division networks of telephone switching systems with electronic control. The array is controlled by two groups of coils arranged rectangularly to each other. Saturation of the reeds is utilized to ensure reliable operation. The average operating time is 1.7 milliseconds. The switching arrays which are going to be described in this paper have been in operation in an experimental public telephone office since November 1962."
"The term Centrex has become well-known in the industry as a designation of a dial PBX (private branch exchange) system providing certain new features and services. The name and original concept suggest centrally located equipment to serve a plurality of customers. This concept broadens to include other than centrally located installations when the same services are provided on the customer's premises."
"The artificial cable kit (ACK) comprises networks equivalent to definite lengths of cable, and loading coils. Each network is a lattice modified by shunt arms simulating capacitance-to-ground. Overall tolerance in impedance and propagation is held to ±2% from nominal real cable between 10 and 7,000 cps (cycles per second) by novel network design and by limiting the tolerances in network components; as intended, uniformity of performance, both loaded and nonloaded, is superior to that of real cable. Also important is a first approximation to the longitudinal circuit for signaling purposes. With ladder-type networks, equal results could be achieved only by using more components."
"For the past few years, Bell Telephone Laboratories has been conducting an intensive study of impulse noise in switched telephone networks in order to define the statistical character of impulse noise and evaluate its impairment of digital data transmission. The study has progressed to the point where some significant parameters of the noise have been identified and sufficient data gathered on these parameters to show their variability and the boundaries of the variability. This paper presents a summary of the results to date. The study concentrated on noise in 3-kc-bandwidth circuits and the results are limited to such facilities."
"A collection of 735 articles on thin magnetic films (and such variants as twistors and cylindrical films) are listed by author under the year of publication through 1963, and some 60 patents from the United States and other countries are also included. A classification code identifying seven categories has been introduced in order to facilitate search for related articles."
"The art of making ferrites with very low porosity resulted from thorough investigations of the different processing steps in ferrite fabrication. This has been applied, with various substitutions, to different compositions in the nickel-zinc (Ni-Zn) system. At high frequencies, such as 100–3,000 mc (megacycles), dense ferrites show small losses if the permeability is measured in a steady magnetic field perpendicular to the measuring field and the whole sample is saturated; the permeability can be altered by varying the steady field. The high resistivity and the small line width suggest applications in nonreciprocal devices. Values of 0.50 for the extensional piezomagnetic coupling coefficient and of over 0.60 for the torsional coupling coefficient were obtained for low-porosity nickel-cobalt (Ni-Co) ferrites. Low-porosity ferrites with glass-bonding techniques allow the construction of long-life tape-contact heads for high-frequency recording, and some typical constructions are discussed. Dense Ni-Zn ferrites with a small Co content show rectangular hysteresis loops with small coercive forces, but switching times are long. Developments in rectangular loop ferrites have been concentrated on different systems and have resulted in a high temperature stability, in very fast switching cores, and and, in addition, in 30-mil cores with low driving current."
"IN A PULSED-doppler coherent-type radar system, the basic target information is relative velocity (range rate). In the air-borne system of interest in this paper, signals received from a moving target are fed from a number of range-gated receivers to a filter bank and interrogator (FBI) unit. Within this unit, target detection decisions for each range-gated receiver are determined by measuring this relative velocity; these measurements are a function of the doppler-shifted frequency of the returned signals. This information is extracted in the FBI in a 2-cycle process: During the first cycle, the signal information from each range-gated receiver is velocity (frequency) quantized in a multichannel bank. Each quantizing channel is termed a frequency detection channel (FDC); the velocity quantized signal within each FDC is detected and stored. Each range-gated receiver and its corresponding FDCs form the elements of a velocity-range-gate matrix. During the second cycle, this matrix is interrogated sequentially to reveal the previously stored information. Suitable processing determines if signals exist above a predetermined threshold level; these detection decisions are generated in binary form and delivered to a data processor."
"A scaler is described which utilizes a ferrite-core shift register with linear-logic feedback. Where m is the number to be scaled by, the mechanization of this type of scaler requires an n-stage shift register, where 2r−1≥k; an m-input modulo-2 adder where m is even; and detection of a specified combination of states (word). The algorithm for designing a scaler to count to any l is given and the mechanization of such a scaler with a pair of 2-core 2-diode-per-bit shift registers is described; this scaler also uses an all-magnetic modulo-2 adder. One of the shift registers contains the true contents and the other the complement contents: this yields the added advantage of presenting a constant load to the 2-phase drivers, and permits constant voltage drive. The only active elements this type of scaler requires are in the 2-phase driver circuits and in the word detector. The operating frequency'is variable from 0<f≤100 kc."
"Two transducers for force and stress, the pressductor and the torductor, employ magnetic stress sensitivity in different ways. The pressductor is a transducer for compressive force, composed of a large number of equal measuring elements; each of these takes its share of the force and renders a proportional contribution to the output voltage. This results in an actual force integration over the loaded area and a very high output power. The torductor is a noncontacting transducer for stress, which is particularly suitable for measuring torque in rotating shafts, as it works without slip rings or any other shaft attachments, and has a high output power."
"Thousands of magnetized balls, floating free on water and activated by an a-c magnetic field, form a dynamic ever-changing raft. With the raft confined within a square frame, the “magic carpet” appears as a checkerboard array of hill-and-hollow standing waves driven by elastic chains of balls; this new phenomenon is an extension of magnetospherics.1,2 The magnetic organization is worked out, wave phenomena are discussed, and phase relations are established."
"The design of filters and amplifiers with minimum element distribution, minimum number of elements, minimum sensitivity to parameter change, etc., is important today. Since the synthesis problem usually has an infinite number of solutions, it is desirable to be able to transform a given design into a network with the same transfer function but with fewer elements or better element distribution, etc. The techniques of equivalent network theory, which apply a congruence transformation to a network matrix in order to generate equivalent networks, are used to do this. An extension of the Cauer formulation is discussed which, by applying the transformation directly to the element parameter matrices, places the elements of the transformed network directly in evidence. The transformation is then used to transform to an equivalent network whose elements differ from those in the original network by only an incremental amount. In the limiting case, a set of differential equations for the elements of the equivalent network results, in arbitrary inputs. The method of steepest descent is applied to choose these inputs in order to force the network to converge on the optimal design."
"The solution to the Boolean matrix question is reviewed. It is then shown how a transformation of Boolean variables may be considered as multiplication by a column-permuting, or “unitary”, matrix. The problem of how a synchronous recursive circuit can be designed given the sequence of output functions is solved through Boolean matrices. Boolean and Post multivalued-logic matrices are shown to analyze threshold-logic circuits and to effect a change in threshold."
"This paper deals with the mathematical analysis of a technical-economic problem of equipment design in which parameter optimization is required to ensure the minimum cost of construction and operation. The analysis presented is general; it covers any type of problem that can be characterized by means of a multivariable nonlinear function with positive coefficients. A theorem on an extremum of a function of this type is proved, and a method for finding the optimum parameters is described. The proof ensures determination of the absolute optimum for the problem, and the proposed calculation method reduces the required digital computer time."
"The behavior of a class of multimode oscillators, having two nonlinear elements and operating under the influence of an external signal, is analyzed, using approximation procedures of Krylov, Bogoliubov, and Mitropolsky. Although features of the basic circuit are chosen to conform to the general characteristics of common self-biased oscillators, the procedures employed are applicable to a large class of problems involving two nonlinear elements. Through the approximating procedure, the system of nonlinear differential equations, describing the basic circuit, is replaced by a new, more tractable system of three first-order nonlinear differential equations. Phase-space solutions of the approximating system are then used to predict and analyze several features of forced oscillator operation, including frequency entrainment, pulling, and super-regenerative detection. The results of the theoretical analysis are in very close agreement with the actual behavior of an experimental oscillator."
"Negative polarity is used in electrical precipitation because it is generally believed to provide higher voltages than positive polarity, at least for the electronegative gases found in most applications. Theoretical and experimental evidence to the contrary is given here. However, there are some difficulties to be overcome before practical application of positive polarity is possible."
"In its simplest form, the Morgan circuit consists of four components: a silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR), a commutating capacitor, a saturable autotransformer, and a load resistor. When the gate supply puts out equally spaced trigger pulses to the SCR, the Morgan circuit provides equally spaced power pulses across load resistor R. The over-all technique is known as time ratio control (TRC), where a power pulse of given amplitude is turned on for Ton seconds of a tp-second period. When the pulse is rectangular, this ratio is TRC = Ton/tp = Ton/Ton + Toff = Vo/Vin. When this Morgan circuit is used as a d-c — d-c step-down converter which supplies a wide range of voltage and load requirements, it is advantageous to determine those circuit parameter values which produce the maximum possible TRC (highest output voltage) over the required range of load requirements, by using the laboratory design method presented in this paper. The high-current capabilities were found to be limited by capacitor size and the low currents usually by the maximum pulse-width capability of the trigger circuit. At intermediate currents and high TRC values, alternate pulse degeneration and its outgrowth, bistable operation, are encountered; at low TRC values, and over various currents, capacitor leakage results in pulse distortion. The causes of bistable operation and capacitor leakage are discussed in terms of two waveshapes, and proven remedies are presented. They result in a stable and regulated d-c-d-c step-down converter employing a Morgan circuit, filtering, and feedback capable of supplying a broad range of voltage and current requirements."
"ELIMINATION of zero drift in magnetic modulators has taken two courses. The first involves using the second-harmonic flux components in two equally rated saturable-reactor elements which secure decoupling between a-c excitation windings and d-c signal windings.1–10 Since, in these twin-core modulators, the second-harmonic component of output voltage is generally selected by filtering and used for controlling a tuned a-c amplifier, the relatively high residual noise-output voltage, caused by slight core mismatch, places stringent requirements on both filter and amplifier circuits."
"DIODE SWITCHING has certain deficiencies: it does not provide negation, it lacks power amplification, and it provides no signal regeneration. To compensate for these, amplifiers must be inserted at intervals within the switching network."
"An examination of the effects of coupling strip lines on the dynamic behavior of film magnetization in high-speed switching applications is made for coupled-pair bit geometry. Flux penetration time constants are estimated, and the limiting cases of zero and infinite penetration time are discussed in terms of the effects on film switching behavior. Experimental results indicate generally predictable behavior."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of thin magnetic film parametrons (also termed parametric phase-locked subharmonic oscillators) has been stimulated by their potential as low-cost reliable logic elements for medium- and low-speed computing machines.1–4 Among the many ways to implement the parametron, the best known consists of a single-domain uniaxial magnetic film coupled to a coil whose axis is directed along the hard magnetization direction of the film; the coil is further shunted by a tuning capacitor to form a tank circuit resonating at the subharmonic frequency. A second winding, orthogonal to the signal coil, produces a bias field and a pump field along the easy direction of the film.1 The oscillation characteristics and phase bi-stability of this device have been verified."
"A PERMANENT MAGNET twistor memory1,2 for use in program stores with capacity greater than a million bits was first described 3 years ago.3 Memories of this basic design are used in electronic central offices and electronic private branch exchanges in the Bell System. Since 1961, more than 300 memories of this basic design have been manufactured for experimental, prototype, and production systems. This paper presents a timely review of the electrical characteristics achieved with the permanent magnet twistor memory, and discusses some recent experiments to evaluate factors controlling memory performance."
"THE INCREASING use of semiconductors in power circuits requires fast-responding and accurate current-limit circuits (CLs) with high efficiency and with a control circuit insulated from the power circuits. Inverter, converter, time-ratio-control (TRC), and power-switching circuits need CLs that can turn off the power semiconductor within a few microseconds (μsec) after over current occurs. The desire for small overload in semiconductors necessitates accurate CLs (1% to 5%). The current-sensing device should require very little expenditure of power; therefore, the power-wasting current-measuring shunts ought to be avoided."
"THE KEY to efficient inverter circuits, using silicon controlled rectifiers (SCR's), is the method of commutation — the process of transferring current from one controlled rectifier to another. When feedback rectifiers are used to provide an alternative path for reactive load current, the size of the commutating components can be greatly reduced,1 and the commutation transient takes the form of an impulse. This impulse must be large enough to extinguish the current in the conducting controlled rectifier and long enough to provide inverse voltage for the required turn-off time. In many inverters,1 commutation is initiated by turning on the controlled rectifier that is complementary to the one being turned off. This paper describes a new circuit in which the commutating impulse is initiated by gating auxiliary controlled rectifiers. The inductance-capacitance (LC) pulse circuit is separate from the main power circuit except during commutation."
"The Piggyback Twistor (PBT) is an electronically writeable nondestructive-readout memory that has been built and tested in sizes up to 300,000 bits. The storage and sense functions are performed by thin magnetic tapes spirally wrapped in coincidence on a copper wire. The mode of operation is by linear selection using a ferrite core array for word access. “Ones” and “zeros” are of opposite polarity at the output terminals to ease the discrimination problem. This paper discusses details of the construction and operation of a piggyback memory. The magnetic properties of the two tapes are considered, and the theoretical read and write field limits are then examined. The the results are given for a 4,096-word 54-bit memory."
"A number of authors have discussed cross-field effects in papers dealing with nondestructive read-out of saturation flux levels1,2 or with modulation devices.3 In this paper, it will be shown that the average flux level in a square-loop material controls the amplitude of the second-harmonic voltage induced in a coil as a result of a sinusoidal field orthogonal to the axis of the coil and the direction of the flux. A theoretical discussion of the cross-field effect and the experimental results is presented, along with a brief consideration of this effect as an experimental tool and applied device."
"This paper will examine part of a magnetic technology based on balanced magnetic circuits. In this technology, a flux source connected to two equal-length parallel paths (simple balanced circuit) serves primarily as a memory element, and a flux source connected to more than two equal-length parallel paths serves as a logic element (multiple balanced circuit). A storage element is constructed by building a balanced memory element into the legs of the logic element (compound balanced circuit). The margins on that part of the system already tested show that clock-phase regulation and clock-phase shaping are minimized, and biases not required."
"IN RECENT YEARS there has been a growing interest in the various types of magnetic film memories; a large part of this interest has centered on the high-speed capabilities of destructive read out (DRO) word-organized film memories. Most of the DRO film memories built to date have been of a modest size and have used a field arrangement first proposed by Raffel.1–6 In this arrangement, a word-select transverse field is applied to read out the information and a longitudinal field is applied, along with the transverse word field, in order to write the information back into the memory. Although the memories built so far have been of a modest size, system needs dictate an interest in large high-speed memories."
"The dynamic behavior of a magnetic amplifier with RC (resistance-capacitance) load or RC feedback is viewed here as a pulse-width modulated system. A linearization method is introduced whereby the average of the variable over a specific time, 1 half-cycle, is taken as the dependent variable of a finite difference equation. A modular differential equation is then derived whose solution coincides at the discrete instants of interest with the values of the variable of the difference equation. This makes it possible to employ transfer function techniques when a study of systems, involving the magnetic amplifier of another pulse-width modulating device, is attempted. Agreement between experiment and theory in a wide variety of instances illustrates the generality of the method."
"In signal transmission systems employing suppressed-carrier modulated signals, it is often desirable to operate on the modulation in order to stabilize the system or alter its performance. The circuit discussed in this paper is an illustration of techniques which employ saturable-core reactors (SRs) for operating directly on the modulated carrier.1 It is based on the ability of an SR to convert a voltage integral to a magnetic flux and store it until needed. The experimental circuit is a differentiator having a zero voltage gain at zero frequency and an output linearly proportional to the rate of change of the modulation voltage up to frequencies approaching that of the carrier."
"THE TURN-OFF process is the regaining of forward blocking ability-after termination of a forward current wave. By the turn-off process the silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) is brought into the forward blocking condition where turn-on will not occur because of the unavoidable dv/dt slope of the reapplied forward voltage. The problem of the turn-off process is how to avoid unintentional turn-on. Thus, the study of the turn-off and turn-on processes cannot be separated."
"A QUANTITATIVE investigation was made of the change in normal and differential permittivities with field strength and with time in unpolarized ceramic barium titanate disks at 25 C (degrees centigrade) as manifested in the deconstriction of 60-cps (cycles-per-second) hysteresis loops. Empirical expressions, which are first approximations giving the variation of the permittivity with field strength at stated time after start, were deduced for both branches of each permittivity loop. At constant field strength, the normal permittivity εn varies as tβ where t is time and β is a constant."
"The principles of semiconductor nuclear particle detectors and their applications are reviewed, and recent progress is reported, with particular attention to detection of beta and gamma radiations. By a lithium ion drift process, p-i-n structures with 5-mm (millimeter) depletion depth can now be fabricated routinely in silicon. Such counters have about a 5% efficiency for the detection of gamma photons; when cooled they sometimes show energy resolutions of under 10 kev (kiloelectron-volts). Recent results using germanium, which has a much higher photoelectric absorption cross section, show the photoelectric peak is well above the Compton background for the 660-kev gamma radiation from Cs137, with a line width less than 7 kev for the 120-kev gamma from Co57. The possibilities of other materials for large volume particle detectors are discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A digital method of deflecting a light beam using n optical modulators and n uniaxial crystals to provide 2n positions of the beam is described. The input-output relations for one special configuration are derived. Optical problems and limitations are investigated and, in particular, it is found that the upper limit to the density of positions is about 106/sq. in. Presently available modulators are considered, and it is found that a KDP modulator has a power limitation above 1 mc operation for a total number of positions of about 70,000. Finally, the applications of the method as a semipermanent memory, a PCM decoder, and a digital delay line are briefly considered."
"The literature in astrodynamics abounds with perturbation techniques for satellite orbits. Various formulations have been generated in terms of orbit elements, the satellite position and velocity vectors, or combinations thereof. The computational effectiveness of any perturbation scheme depends largely on the definitions used for the dynamic state variables. Some methods are aimed at long-range predictions and orbit lifetime studies, others at short-range predictions for guidance. This paper may serve as an introduction to this field for the nonspecialist, in that it reviews the classical variation-of-parameters technique and discusses several engineering analyses that were generated in the post-Sputnik era. It also points to some connections between these relatively simple approaches and more elaborate methods of celestial mechanics. Thus it may contribute toward a comparison of several “professional” approaches whose relative merits are often debated among experts."
"During the past six or seven years, several methods of orbit refinement were developed specifically for use with artificial satellites and spacecraft. This article describes these methods, and the classical method, in a uniform mathematical formalism in order to facilitate comparisons of their relative advantages and disadvantages for practical systems applications. However, such comparisons are made in this article only to the extent that motivated the development of the new methods."
"In this paper we study a broad class of nonlinear control systems containing a single memoryless nonlinear element. We present conditions under which there exists a unique periodic response, with a given period, to an arbitrary periodic input with the same period, and we derive an upper bound on the mean-square error incurred by applying the describing-function technique. The expression for the error reflects the intuitive engineering arguments that are often employed to justify the use of the describing-function method. Conditions are also presented under which subharmonic response components and self-sustained oscillations cannot occur."
"This paper discusses the performance of a four-phase data transmission system in the presence of delay distortion and impulse noise. The tool used in this investigation is digital computer simulation, including a new technique for introducing impulse noise. The noise studies indicate the usefulness of the eye aperture for measuring the degrading effects of delay distortion on such a four-phase system. Using the eye aperture as a criterion, the effects on performance of sinusoidal, parabolic, quartic, and parabolically bounded sinusoidal delays are studied. Curves showing the resulting degradation in performance are obtained. These are used to find bounds on allowable delay for a certain allowable degradation for lines typical of equalized voice or group band-widths, usual nonequalized voice-bands, and loaded cable type voice-bands."
"Blocking probability is the most frequently required performance characteristic in traffic studies of complex central office switching networks. Determining this quantity without actual measurement is a difficult task. To aid the communications system designer, a simulation program has been prepared which produces useful estimates of blocking probability for a large class of networks. The program is based on a simplified mathematical model for the analysis of switching networks developed by C. Y. Lee, and thus differs from conventional simulators in that it simulates a mathematical model rather than a traffic-handling system. Although Lee's model is widely used, its utility has been limited by computational difficulties encountered in networks of realistic size and complexity. This limitation is in most practical cases removed by the program, which features rapid input preparation, short computer runs, and specification of the desired precision of the results as an input parameter. Moreover, the program allows for the incorporation of more a priori information about the actual behaviour of switching networks than is included in Lee's model, thereby leading to a more accurate estimate of blocking probability. The simulator has been programmed for the IBM 7090 computer, but the concepts are machine independent"
"In designing a large gain and simultaneously large instantaneous bandwidth traveling-wave maser (TWM), the filling factor and the isolator performance should be optimized. The filling factor is a measure of the efficiency of interaction between the spin system of the maser material and the RF magnetic fields of the slow-wave structure. For the TWM using the 90° operation of ruby and the comb as the slow-wave structure, the c axis of the ruby should be parallel to the z axis of the structure (the direction of the signal wave propagation) for the largest filling factor. The improvement of the filling factor by the proper orientation of the c axis of the ruby is larger at the lower signal frequencies because the transition probability of ruby is more nearly linear at those frequencies. The isolator should provide sufficient reverse absorption to make the TWM short-circuit stable and yet add the minimum forward absorption to the TWM. Both the reverse and the forward absorption of the isolator depend critically on the size of the ferrite disks and the position in which they are imbedded in the comb structure. An analysis of the filling factor and isolator performance and its comparison with measurements was made. Together with Refs. 1 and 2, this paper is intended to reduce the amount of experimental work involved in developing traveling-wave masers. Although the discussion is centered on the comb-type ruby TWM, the data provided also apply to other tape slow-wave structures using different active crystals."
"The space harmonic analysis of the dielectrically loaded comb structure as used in traveling-wave masers (TWM) is presented. The frequency-phase characteristics (the ω-β diagrams) are computed by regarding each finger of the comb structure as a capacitive loaded transmission line. The impedance of the line is based on the space harmonic analysis. Computed data are found to be in agreement with experimental results and, in particular, it is confirmed that the ω-β relation depends very critically on certain dimensions of the dielectric loading. The results of the analysis are used to derive prescriptions for the design of dielectrically loaded TWM comb structures, especially of structures with low group velocity which are suitable to provide simultaneously large gain and large instantaneous bandwidth."
"A study has been completed which compares four types of permanent electrical connections (soldered, solderless wrapped, percussive welded, and resistance welded) under environmental conditions of vibration, shock, temperature extremes, corrosion, humidity, and bending. Only good-quality connections were included in this study, and they represented the current state-of-the-art for each type. Under these conditions the connections showed no significant degradation in their electrical characteristics as long as they remained mechanically secure. Differences in the four types of connections were therefore assessed in relation to their mechanical characteristics. Consequently, one of the more important results of the study was the recognition of fatigue life as the most important mechanical connection characteristic when comparing connections which meet the high standards of the Bell System for electrical stability. Using fatigue life as a basis for comparison and soldered connections as a reference standard, the major conclusions with regard to general wiring (the connection of wires to terminals, such as surface and local cable wiring) are as follows for the conditions that existed in this study: (a) monitored percussive welded connections are superior to soldered connections; (b) over-all, solderless wrapped connections are essentially equivalent to soldered connections; (c) resistance welded connections are significantly inferior to soldered connections. Although differences were found among the types of connections, no evidence was obtained that any of the connection types are not satisfactory as presently used in normal Bell System applications."
"An approach toward testing of solar cells is outlined, and a test set and evaluation procedure of test results are described. Outer space short-circuit current is calculated from spectral response measurements performed on the cells. From this and additional measurements that determine the forward diode characteristic, the maximum obtainable power and the voltage at which maximum power is delivered are computed. The accuracy of outer space short-circuit current predictions is ±2 to 3 per cent when suitable standards are employed."
"This paper describes the theory of a unilateral parametric amplifier which contains two variable-capacitance diodes separated by a quarter wavelength at the signal frequency and a half wavelength at the idler frequency. It is shown that a broadband signal circuit is essential in order to obtain unilateral gain, and that matching conditions are obtainable even with a high gain. The optimum noise figure is slightly worse than that of a single-diode reflection-type amplifier; however, this amplifier has advantages if it is refrigerated at liquid helium temperature, because it does not require a circulator in front of its input port. The amplifier usually requires an isolator at its output port, since it does not have substantial loss in the reverse direction."
"A digital light deflcctor was recently proposed by T. J. Nelsonl1 in which n optical modulators and n uniaxial crystals were used to provide 2n positions of the beam. Each uniaxial crystal was used to deflect a beam of light into either of two beams, with the light at the output remaining parallel to the input but displaced by an amount proportional to the thickness of the crystal. For a large number of positions it was found that a lens had to be employed in order to focus the beam into a smail spot. The lise of the lens requircs that converging or diverging light must pass through the uni ax ial crystal. In this brief we point out that this converging beam, when passing through the crystal as an extraordinary ray, is subjected to an index of refraction which varies rapidly with angle. The digital light deflector using this type of deflection therefore has appreciable image distortion, and the limiting spot densities that can be achieved are less than would be predicted if only diffraction were important."
"The results of measurements at moderate to high magnetic fields on a large number of nonmagnetic ion substituted yttrium iron garnets suggest that intrasublattice interactions play an important role in determining their spontaneous magnetizations and Curie temperatures. It is shown that the system {Y3−xCax}[Fe2](Fe3−xSix)O12 is continuously related to the system {Y3−xCax}[ZrxFe2−x](Fe3)O12 or {Y3}[ScxFe2−x](Fe3)O12. It is concluded that in these systems the tetrahedral-tetrahedral (d-d) antiferromagnetic interactions are stronger than octahedral-octahedral (a-a) antiferromagnetic interactions. The changes in magnetic structure from an ideal ferrimagnet, yttrium iron garnet, to an end-member in which there are at least short-range antiferromagnetic interactions (i.e., in {Ca3}[Fe2](Si3)O12 or a hypothetical {YCa2}[Zr2](Fe3)O12) should bear an analogy to the crystal chemical changes. It is therefore proposed that when substitution is made exclusively in one sublattice, the moments of the Fe3+ ions in that sublattice remain parallel (as in the Yafet-Kittel theory), while the weakened average a-d interactions and the intrasublattice interactions lead to random canting of the Fe3+ ion moments of the other. This tendency occurs as soon as substitution begins. On continued substitution, a point is reached beyond which canting increases much more rapidly with increasing substitution. In this region, the intrasublattice interactions dominate the a-d interactions, but it is probable that the canting continues to be random."
"A pair of coupled nonlinear differential equations is given which describes the reduction of gain in a traveling-wave maser due to high-power signals. Integrals in closed form are obtained for two cases of interest. The first applies to pulsed optical amplifiers where no replacement of stored energy occurs during a signal pulse. The result is a pulse sharpening phenomenon; i.e., the leading edge of an input pulse is amplified by the original full gain while later parts of the signal experience reduced gain. The second case is that of steady-state gain saturation in the presence of a continuous pumping process. The results describe the observed gain compression of microwave ruby traveling-wave masers."
"A calculation is made of the maximum steady-state temperature rise due to a small amount of dielectric dissipation in a Luneberg lens which is continuously illuminated by a powerful microwave transmitter, when the surface of the lens is held at a constant temperature. The temperature distribution along the axis of the lens is computed both when the focus is at the surface, and also when it is outside the surface at a distance equal to one-tenth of the lens radius. The numerical results are given in such a form that the maximum temperature rise is easily deduced when the loss tangent is any linear function of the refractive index of the lens material. In general the maximum steady-state temperature occurs on the axis at some interior point between the center of the lens and the focus. The total power dissipated in the lens is also computed. Finally, a brief discussion is given of the time scale associated with transient heating of the lens."
"An approximate theoretical calculation is made of the scattering losses due to random inhomogeneities in a large Luneberg lens made of dielectric blocks. A simple model is used in which the average index of refraction of each block may differ slightly from the value called for by the lens design, and the index may vary linearly with position inside a given block. The losses are described by attributing an effective scattering loss tangent to the lens medium. Tables and curves are given to facilitate the computation of total scattering loss as a function of block size, mean-square deviation of average index, and mean-square index gradient within the blocks. Manufacturing processes for foam dielectric blocks are monitored by testing the blocks in various orientations in an oversize resonant cavity. An approximate relationship is derived between the results of cavity resonator measurements and the parameters of the theoretical model; but it is pointed out that the assumption of linear index variation across a single block can be quite unrealistic in practice. Numerical results derived from the present theory are most likely to be meaningful if the dimensions of the individual blocks are less than one wavelength."
"The 1962 sample survey of message circuit noise and loss on Bell System toll connections is described and discussed in this article. The results are presented in terms of the distribution of noise levels on toll calls as established in the present system, the distribution of end-office to end-office losses on these calls, and the distribution of airline distances between end-offices. It is shown that the noise distribution referred to the subscriber's set has a mean of 19.7 dbrnc with a standard deviation of 7.8 db, that the mean of the distribution of end-office to end-office losses is 7.7 db with a standard deviation of 3.0 db, and that 50 per cent of all toll calls are shorter than 30 miles, while only 10 per cent span a distance of more than 250 miles. The noise level versus distance and loss versus distance relationships are investigated and analyzed. The noise level is found to increase by 2.2 db for each doubling of the airline distance between end-offices, while the loss shows an increase of 0.6 db for each doubling of the distance. Finally, present performance of the Bell System toll plant is evaluated in terms of noise and volume grade-of-service estimates."
"The reduction and control of noise on message circuits must be based on sound noise objectives. For many years the Bell System over-all performance objective has been “26 dbrnc (20 dba) seldom to be exceeded at the telephone station set.” In this article the derivation of a more flexible and operationally feasible noise objective is presented. This objective specifies a limit of 20 dbrnc not to be exceeded on subscriber loops, and stipulates various distributions for noise originating beyond class 5 offices on built-up connections. The objective is such as to provide Bell System customers with a noise grade of service ranging from 99 per cent good or better on short connections to 90 per cent good or better on intercontinental connections spanning distances up to halfway around the world."
"The problem of the propagation of a light ray in a lens-waveguide with arbitrarily bent axis is solved. The solution can conveniently be expressed in form of an integral if the waveguide is bent sufficiently gradually. In general, a ray which is incident on the axis of the straight lens-waveguide follows an undulating path after traversing the bend. The undulations can be kept arbitrarily small if the bend is tapered and if its curvature is sufficiently gentle. By properly dimensioning the bend, the undulations can be made to cancel out completely, so that a ray which follows the axis of the straight waveguide can be made to leave the bend on the axis of the outgoing straight waveguide. The cases of circular and tapered bends as well as tilts and offsets are discussed."
"TE01 propagation in helix waveguide and spaced-ring guide is analyzed for frequencies where the wavelength is comparable to the period of the structures. By conformal mapping the boundary value problem is reduced to that of a waveguide with smooth walls but inhomogeneous dielectric lining. The lining modifies the magnetic field near the wall and changes the distribution of eddy currents and heat losses in the wires. As frequency increases, the field penetrates more into the space between wires, the eddy currents are more evenly distributed and the heat loss decreases from its quasistatic value of, for example, 10 per cent more than in plain waveguide to only 5 per cent more. Any substantial increase in heat loss occurs only when the wavelength is shorter than the period of the structure. Due to the periodicity, there are stop-bands when any number of half wavelengths just fit into the period. The relative width of the stop-band and its maximum attenuation per period are independent of waveguide diameter and period length and are only functions of the relative geometry of the section. Because of the stop-bands being so narrow and their attenuation being quite modest, one may well accept them within the range of operating frequencies."
"This is the second in a series of papers describing the ALPAK system for nonnumerical algebra on a digital computer. The first paper, Ref. 1, is concerned with polynomials in several variables and truncated power series with polynomial coefficients. This paper is concerned with rational functions of several variables and truncated power series with rational-function coefficients. A third paper, Ref. 3, will discuss systems of linear equations with rational-function coefficients. The ALPAK system has been programmed within the BE-SYS-4 monitor system on the IBM 7090 computer, but the language and concepts are machine-independent. Several practical applications are described in Ref. 1. This paper is divided into five sections. The first deals with basic concepts, the second defines canonical forms, and the third describes ALPAK's greatest common divisor algorithm. These three sections do not presuppose any knowledge of computers or computer programming. Section IV describes the use and the implementation of the algebraic operations relating to rational functions of several variables and truncated power series with rational-function coefficients. The reader of this section is assumed to be familiar with the basic concepts of computer programming and with Ref. 1. Finally, Section V discusses very briefly some of our plans and hopes for the future."
"The problem of direct interband transitions in semiconducting crystals is considered in detail. The solution of the problem is shown to lead to a system of simultaneous coupled nonlinear differential equations. These equations do not distinguish between static and dynamic fields, and are obtained without recourse to any approximation procedures. They therefore apply for electromagnetic fields of arbitrary amplitude. It is shown, finally, that the linearization of these equations correctly predicts the fundamental optical absorption edge and the photoconductive rate equations which result in photomixing phenomena."
"The advantages of the ferreed as a switching network crosspoint led to an early decision to adopt it for use in electronic switching systems. The prospect of large-scale use of the device gave impetus to a search for an economical, easily fabricated component. This paper describes the considerations which influenced the choices of a suitable magnetic material, magnetic circuit geometry, and coil design that were made for the production model."
"Relays are among the most important electromechanical devices. They have been in use for many years and continue, in modern form, to be Essential elements in modern Bell System and military applications, including electronic switching systems. The most important recent developments are miniaturization, sealed contact relays using glass-enclosed contacts, and “remanent” type devices. Ferreed and bipolar ferreed coordinate arrays and individual units are new and important switching elements. These devices make use of miniature glass-enclosed contacts in combination with “square loop” magnetic material∗ such as ferrite or certain iron alloys. They are magnetic “latching” units and are operated or released by short pulses."
"A stream of telephone calls is submitted to a group of trunks, the first-choice group, according to a recurrent process. We allow balking on this trunk group; i.e., if a call finds k of the first-choice trunks busy it may be served, with probability pk, or may fail to be served, with probability qk. A call which fails to receive immediate service on the first-choice trunk group is submitted to a second-choice trunk group, the overflow group. We also allow balking on the overflow group. Calls which fail to receive immediate service on the overflow group are lost to the system. Holding times have negative-exponential distribution. We give methods for finding the joint distributions of numbers of busy trunks on the first-choice and overflow groups, at overflow instants (i.e., instants at which calls are submitted to the overflow group), at arrival instants, and at arbitrary instants. We consider the transient as well as the limiting distributions (and demonstrate the existence of the limiting distributions). The methods developed are illustrated by several examples. Numerical results are given for the blocking in the particular case that the first-choice group constitutes a random slip, while the overflow group is full-access (common)."
"In this paper we study the recoverability of square-integrable bandlimited signals (with arbitrary frequency) bands) that are distorted by a freguency-selective time-variable nonlinear operator and subsequently are bandlimited to the original bands. The distortion operator characterizes a very general class of systems containing linear time-invariant elements and a single time-invariant nonlinear element. The subseguent bandlimiting of the system's output signals can be thought of as being due to transmission through a channel that performs filtering. Our principal result asserts that, under certain conditions that are satisfied by many realistic systems, it is possible to uniquely determine the bandlimited input to the system from a knowledge of the bandlimited version of the output, in spite of the intermediate distortion which generally produces signals thal are not bandlimited to the original frequency bands. We show that the input signal can be determined by a stable iteralion procedure in which the approximating functions converge to their limit at a rate that is at least geometric."
"It is proved that the integral equation $\\int_{-1}^{1}G(x)F(xy)H(y)f(y)dy = \\lambda f(x)$ has at least one nonzero eigenvalue if F is any integral function of finite order, G and H are any bounded functions on [− 1,1], and the trace of the kernel G(x)F(xy)H(y) does not vanish. In particular, this theorem furnishes the first rigorous proof that the kernel exp [ik(x − y)2], which arises in the theory of the gas laser, has an eigenvalue for arbitrary complex k."
"New devices using vacuum-deposited metal films require a high-speed, low-cost method of vacuum deposition. The capability of the open-ended multiple-chamber deposition equipment has been investigated to determine its suitability for depositing tantalum nitride thin films. This was accomplished by examining the measurable electrical properties of the deposited film and by determining the stability of resistors made from these films. Tantalum films produced by the open-ended deposition system were found comparable to those produced by many bell-jar systems. It was possible to control the addition of nitrogen to the films, and tantalum nitride films of satisfactory stability were obtained. Because the open-ended deposition method can produce large quantities of suitable thin films, it is expected that this will be an important process in the manufacture of future products."
"In tropospheric scatter transmission beyond the horizon, the amplitude, phase and frequency of a received sine wave exhibit random fluctuations owing to variable multipath transmission and noise. The probability of errors in digital transmission over such random multipath media has been dealt with in the literature on the proemise of flat Rayleigh fading over the band occupied by the spectrum of transmitted pulses. This is a legitimate approximation at low transmission rates, such that the pulse spectrum is adequately narrow, but not at high digital transmission rates. The probability of errors is determined here also for high transmission rates, such that selective fading over the pulse spectrum band must be considered. Such selective fading gives rise to pulse distortion and resultant intersymbol interference that may cause errors even in the absence of noise. Troposcatter transmission can be approximated by an idealized multipath model in which the amplitudes of signal wave components received over different paths vary at random and in which there is a linear variation in transmission delay with a maximum departure ±Δ from the mean delay. Various statistical transmission parameters are determined on this premise, among them the probability distribution of amplitude and phase fluctuations and of derivatives thereof with respect to time and with respect to frequency. The probability of errors in the absence of noise owing to such fluctuations is determined together with the probability of errors owing to noise, for digital transmission by binary PM and FM. Charts are presented, from which can be determined the combined probability of errors from various sources, as related to the transmission rate and certain basic parameters of troposcatter links."
"Evidence is presented to show that Au-n-type GaAs rectifying contacts are majority carrier rectifiers of the Schottky type. These diodes may be characterized by a Richardson constant of 20–60 amp/cm2 deg2 and barrier heights of 1.03, 0.97 and 0.91 volts, corresponding to the 〈111〉, $\\langel \\overline{111}\\rangle)$ and 〈110〉 orientations of GaAs substrate. GaAs Schottky barrier varactor diodes constructed on epitaxial films may be designed to yield a high cutoff frequency. Performance calculations in a practical case yield a “dynamic quality factor” of 50 at 6 gc under favorable conditions. A “dynamic quality factor” of about 20 at 6 gc should be obtainable with present fabrication technology."
"A diode based on the properties of an evaporated gold contact on n-type epitaxial silicon has speed comparable to point contact diodes. The space charge region at zero bias can be designed to penetrate up to the impurity tail at the interface, thus reducing series resistance. An encapsulated diode was made with a 1-mil diameter gold contact on an epitaxial layer 1.5 microns thick having a surface doping of 1 × 1015 donors per cm3. The zero-bias RC product of this diode is less than 1 × 10−12 second. Under forward bias the electron transit time through the epitaxial layer is less than 2 × 10−11 second. The breakdown voltage of experimental diodes is greater than 10 volts. Stress aging experiments in an inert atmosphere show no deterioration of electrical properties at temperatures up to the gold-silicon eutectic (370°C). This diode was used as a harmonic generator at 11 gc with an efficiency comparable to that of a gallium arsenide point contact diode."
"General formulae and existence criteria are derived for the discrete power spectral densities of first-order Markov pulse trains, viz., infinite pulse trains in which each pulse corresponds to one member of a finite set of specified waveforms and depends statistically on the previous pulse alone. These results are obtained through a distribution theoretic decomposition of the spectral formulation given for such pulse trains by Huggins and Zadeh."
"The effect of discrete imperfections on the behavior of active transmission lines (i.e., lines with distributed gain) is considered. Two cases are studied: 1. Lines with identical, equally spaced reflectors. The transmission and reflection gains versus frequency are studied as functions of the magnitude of the reflectors. Limits on the magnitude of the reflectors to guarantee stability are investigated. 2. Lines with random reflectors, having random position and/or magnitude. The statistics of the transmission are studied; in particular, the average value and the variance and covariance of the transmission are determined for small reflections. If the reflections become large enough, instability may occur, and these calculations may become invalid. Stability of active distributed systems is studied in a companion paper.1"
"Two sufficient conditions for the stability of one-dimensional active transmission lines with arbitrary imperfections (i.e., discrete or continuous reflections) are derived. The first stability condition guarantees stability for any arbitrary distribution of reflection. The second stability condition is restricted to a special case of interest that includes discrete reflectors with nominally equal magnitude and spacing; the stability condition for this restricted class is greatly improved over the general stability condition described above. These results, aside from their own interest, provide rigorous justification for previous calculations for the gain statistics of such a device with random discrete reflectors.1 They may also be used to find an upper bound on the probability of instability of such a device with random reflectors. Certain types of optical maser amplifiers and traveling-wave tubes provide examples of practical devices with distributed gain to which these results, or similar ones, might be applied."
"Gallium phosphide crystals were grown from polycrystalline material in a solution of gallium contained in evacuated and sealed-off quartz tubes.1 For the regrowth, the tube with the GaP-Ga mixture was heated to 1250°C and cooled at a rate of 1.5°C per minute. After separation of the GaP crystals from the adherent Ga, Zn was diffused into the crystals"
"In experiments with dcoherent laser light it is frequently necessary to transform a given Gaussian beam1,2 into a Gaussian beam with certain desired parameters. It is required, for example, to transform the light beam emerging from a laser oscillating in a fundamental mode in order to provide for optimum injection into a light transmission line2,3 (consisting of a sequence of lenses), or for optimum coupling into a spherical mirror interferometer.4 In these cases one has to “mathc” the incoming beam to the natural mode of the system in question. Lenses inserted in the beam perform the matching transformation. The design of a matching configuration has to take full account of the laws1,2,3 that govern optical mides. This leads to a somewhat complex analysis.5 The results, however, are quite simple matching formulae which are presented in this brief. A matching experiment is described for illustration."
"Some theoretical aspects of the demodulation of wideband, low-power FM signals are discussed. It is assumed that a band-limited, continuous, analog signal is supplied to the modulator and is recovered to a fidelity suitable for television, telephone, or carrier telephone. Much of the paper assumes that the baseband signal is sampled and clamped before it is applied to the frequency modulator. The combination has been called PAM-FM and is characterized by a piecewise constant transmitted frequency. PAM-FM can be demodulated by spectrum analysis means not suitable for continuously varying frequencies. It is shown that a spectrum generator can be derived from the techniques of radar pulse compression, and is equivalent to an infinite set of correlators or matched filters plus means for scanning their terminals. The spectrum analysis circuit forms are compared with demodulators using frequency detectors, with and without FM feedback, in regard to theoretical noise sensitivities. The theoretical sensitivities are quite similar for spectrum analysis and FMFB under conditions assumed. The comparisons disclose that frequency detectors (followed by filters) enjoy a disguised but efficient use of a differential phase coherence which is a characteristic of FM signals. A combination of spectrum analysis and frequency detection is described which has some of the theoretical advantages of both."
"Error control of the detection and retransmission type requires an internal storage buffer when the data source cannot be stopped. With finite capacity there will be occasions when this internal buffer is overfilled. This paper investigates the relationships among the error statistics of the channel, the storage capacity of the buffer, the round-trip transmission delay and the bit rate from the source. It is shown that the process can be treated as a Markov chain. The solution algorithm is programmed for machine computation, and representative cases are solved numerically. For typical values selected from the telephone plant, it is found that buffer capacities of a few hundred bits would be adequate. The technique described should be useful for solving other problems in queueing theory."
"In broadband transmission over troposcatter paths, selective fading will be encountered with resultant transmission impairments, depending on the modulation method. An analysis has been made in a companion paper of such selective fading, based on an idealized model of troposcatter paths. It indicated that selective fading will be accompanied by phase nonlinearity which in a first approximation can be regarded as quadratic over a narrow band. A probability distribution for such quadratic phase distortion was derived. On the premise of quadratic phase distortion, the error probability owing to selective fading was determined for digital transmission by various methods of carrier modulation. The same idealized model and basic premise of quadratic phase distortion is used here to determine intermodulation distortion in FM for a signal with the statistical properties of random noise. An approximate expression for intermodulation noise owing to specified quadratic phase distortion has been derived, applying for any method of frequency pre-emphasis in FM. In turn, median intermodulation noise as well as the probability distribution of intermodulation noise has been determined, as related to certain basic system parameters. A comparison is made of predicted with measured intermodulation noise in four troposcatter systems with lengths from 185 to 440 miles. The results indicate that phase nonlinearity owing to selective fading can be approximated by quadratic phase distortion, or linear delay distortion, over an appreciable part of the transmission band ordinarily considered for troposcatter systems, with a probability distribution that can be determined from certain basic parameters of troposcatter links, such as the length and antenna beam angles. However, to predict intermodulation distortion on any system, further experimental data than are now available are required on beam broadening by scatter. The present random multipath FM distortion theory is shown to afford"
"The subject of traveling-wave maser design is reviewed and a first step towards an analytical design procedure is presented. A method is derived for calculating the upper and lower cutoff frequencies of a comb-type slow-wave structure of simple geometry. It is based on the electromagnetic field pattern and the equivalent impedances which are calculated for these frequencies, both for the dielectrically loaded and the empty comb structure. The design procedure resulting from these calculations permits the prediction of a dielectric loading geometry that shifts the upper and lower cutoff frequency of the empty comb to new, lower values which can be arbitrarily specified within certain limitations. Frequencies calculated by this procedure are compared with the results of measurements, and it is found that cutoff frequencies can be predicted to better than 10 per cent."
"A symmetry of a systematic code is a permutation of bit positions in each code word (the same permutation is applied to all code words) which preserves the code as a whole. Permutation decoding makes use of these symmetries to build up a decoding algorithm for the code. It is difficult to find an appropriate set of symmetries for a code picked at random. For cyclic codes the problem is somewhat easier, and for some special cyclic codes it is solved completely in this paper. For these codes, at least, it is evident that permutation decoding is easy to implement and inexpensive compared with other decoding schemes. Permutation decoding as a n eans of error control is evaluated for the binary symmetric channel and for the switched telephone network as represented by experimental data. It is found to be extremely effective on the binary symmetric channel and of very doubtful value on the present telephone network."
"The transmission line matrix formalism so useful for describing the transfer properties of microwave networks is extended to the electromagnetic fields associated with optical masers. The spontaneous emission noise of the optical maser is examined and shown to be amenable to a thermal description. Taking the point of view, well accepted at microwave frequencies, that a weakly nonlinear oscillator is a saturated amplifier of noise, the power and linewidth of the noise radiation emitted by the optical maser is calculated using the transmission line formalism. The significant parameters for any optical maser are shown to be the frequency, the single-pass gain of the maser medium, the effective mirror reflectivity and the population ratio. The pre-oscillation characteristics of the maser are examined and the reason for the extremely sharp oscillation threshold of the gas masers is discussed. Some observations concerning semiconductor optical masers are also made."
"The law-energy electron diffraction work of L. H. Germer, J. J. Lander, A. U. MacRae, J. Morrison and others is resulting in new information about surface structures. These three-dimensional structures have periodicity only in two dimensions. The 230 triperiodic space groups are not applicable to the solution of these structures. The 17 strictly two-dimensional groups do not admit the existence of a third dimension and may therefore not be appropriate for these structures which are not strictly planar. The useful space groups for these structures are the 80 diperiodic groups in three dimensions. Nowhere in the literature have these been put into a form convenient for use, as have the other two sets of space groups. This has now been done and the tables are available on request from the Circulation Manager, Bell System Technical Journal, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Incorporated, 463 West Street, New York 14, N. Y. Sample tables are given in this paper."
"This paper is an introduction to the No. 1 electronic switching system, a new general-purpose switching system developed for use in the Bell System. Organization and objectives of the system are outlined to provide a background for the detailed technical papers which follow."
"The central processor controls the operation of the No. 1 electronic switching system by executing sequences of program instructions. The logical organization of the central processor is described by the simultaneous evolution of: (1) an instruction repertoire to carry out the required telephone and system maintenance tasks efficiently, and (2) a circuit logic design to provide the necessary circuits (flip-flop registers, accumulators, etc.) to execute the instructions at a high data processing rate. The design aims, order structure, timing, internal sequencing, and communications with the peripheral equipment of the system are described."
"The stored program of the no. 1 ESS must perform switching functions reliably and promptly. Its design must be economical of memory and execution time, and must accommodate office growth easily. The program is organized so that an interrupt system initiates the input-output programs that must be performed to accurate timing tolerances. The data collected by these input-output programs are passed to the call processing programs which decide what course of action the calls shall follow. The program also assigns an appropriate share of central control time for maintenance and administrative functions. The program is generic in the sense that specific quantities which change from office to office are looked up in tables and are not embedded in the program itself. This article describes the basic program structure and illustrates it with some typical programs."
"The No. 1 electronic switching system has a much higher concentration of control than previous telephone systems. This makes the task of providing continuous telephone service more challenging than ever. It is important that troubles be detected almost instantaneously, before many calls are affected. The main subjects of this article are (1) a scheme for duplicating control equipment and (2) a description of circuit and program facilities for taking advantage of this duplication to detect, to automatically recover from, and to analyze troubles."
"Communication between the various units within no. 1 ESS demands a complex network of transmission lines. The requirements are radically different from previous offices became a large amount of information must be transmitted at high speed, in digital form, between a multiplicity of locations with a high degree of reliability. A description is given of objectives and of organization and operational modes for the network. The problems involved are discussed together with the hardware by which the objectives were successfully realized."
"The central control is composed of thousands of relatively simple logic circuits, intricately interconnected to perform the primary data processing functions of the No. 1 electronic switching system. This paper discusses both the circuit development of the basic modules and their application to the logic design of some of the high-speed arithmetic circuits required in the central control. Special electrical design features, wiring rules, and circuit pack assignment procedures are also described."
"Line and trunk translation data and operating programs for no. 1 ESS are stored in a large semipermanent memory. This memory is provided by modular units known as program stores. Each program store provides 5.8 million bits of randomly accessible permanent magnet twistor memory organized into 131,072 parallel words. The information is stored in the state of small magnets affixed to aluminum cards. Each card contains 64 forty-four-bit words. Each store is designed to operate over a duplicated common bus system for both normal and diagnostic operations. The stores have a cycle time of 5.5 μsec. Such stores are an attractive and economical solution to the problem of providing large storage capacity for information which must be protected against accidental change. To provide an efficient and routine method for updating the information content of such stores, offices are provided with card writing equipment. This includes both card handling equipment and card magnetizing equipment under system control."
"A call store is an 8,193-word, 24-bit per word memory system using multi-aperture ferrite sheets in a destructive-readout, coincident-current configuration and operating in a 5.5-microsecond read-write cycle. It is designed for 40-year life and operation in ambient temperatures from 32°F to 115°F. The paper describes in detail the memory medium and memory circuits. General description is given of call store usage on the common bus in the no. 1 ESS and the maintenance and diagnostic features provided. Finally, a discussion of testing and test pattern philosophy is included, along with results measured on production stores."
"An eight-stage space division switching network with ferreed crosspoints was adopted for no. 1 ESS. It has a low crosspoint count and is adaptable to a wide range of office sizes and traffic parameters. This article discusses the network topology, control philosophy, and traffic aspects."
"The switching network of no. 1 ESS is a space-separated network employing ferreed switches. The switches are organized into a few basic building blocks or frames from which all network configurations are realized. The frames are autonomous in operation and demonstrate the peripheral bus concept employed in no. 1 ESS. The presence of the high-speed digital processing center in the central office has had a marked effect upon the circuits of the switching network. Path hunting has become a central control task, which has freed the network of its traditional path memory functions. A combination of electronic and electromechanical devices is used to control the ferreed switches. Control duplication assures reliability."
"The peripheral units of no. 1 ESS, described in this article, include the scanners and signal distributors. The scanners serve to collect information for the central control, and the signal distributors execute central control orders in the system. The peripheral units receive orders through the communication buses. The central pulse distributor serves to connect peripheral units to the communication buses so that a central control order, which is broadcast over the bus system, enters one particular peripheral unit."
"The no. 1 ESS master control center (MCC) serves as the interface between the switching system and operating telephone company personnel. It includes facilities for system test and control, alarm indication, maintenance of lines and trunks, recording customer billing information, and writing information on program store memory cards. The MCC is thus the central maintenance, control, and administration point of no. 1 ESS; it can be functionally divided as follows: (a) maintenance teletypewriter (TTY) facilities, the primary communication facilities between the system and operating company personnel. Other TTY channels provide for communication between the system and a number of other operating company areas (such as traffic measurement, line assignment, etc.). The description of all of these TTY channels is included. (b) alarm, display, and control circuitry to provide continuous indication of system status and permit maintenance personnel to control the system. (c) trunk and line test (TLT) facility provided for maintenance of trunks, lines and service circuits. Included are facilities for dc loop testing, transmission testing, circuit make-busy, handling permanent signals on lines, etc. (d) automatic message accounting (AMA) facility, providing a magnetic tape record of all data related to billing customer calls. The tape is processed in an accounting center to determine the customer charges. (e) program store card writer used for periodically updating the program store translation information. This machine is described in a companion paper."
"In the No. 1 electronic switching system, individual circuits are needed on a per-line, per-trunk, and per-call basis to provide an interface between the outside world and the centralized call processing equipment. These circuits, including digit transmitters and receivers, are characterized by simplicity and compactness, and are program controlled. This article discusses their electrical and mechanical design along with transmission properties and maintenance procedures."
"No. 1 ESS provides a greater variety of services than any prior complex switching system, in central offices of greater capacity, but with more highly standardized equipment of much smaller volume. Much of the credit for this achievement is due to the use of fast electronic circuits under control of a generic program. Apparatus and equipment development was aimed at accenting the benefits in this system, disciplining options to concentrate demands on a few standard frame building blocks, minimizing the varieties and codes of apparatus to take advantage of economies inherent in large volume production, and combining these with flexibility and versatility in a dependable, maintainable, compatible system that will provide all services wanted now and in the future."
"The mechanical packaging design of any large electronic system can have a profound effect on the cost of the system and on its operating reliability. This article describes the no. 1 ESS packaging design and discusses the considerations which influenced it. Printed wiring packaging techniques are used for the individual circuit packs. A new connector and multiple board mounting, which allow considerable flexibility and a high degree of package density, were designed specifically for this application. A test program has established that the connector will perform reliably for a 40-year design life."
"A description of a compiler-assembler program named PROCESS III is given. This program is used to translate no. 1 ESS symbolic source programs to no. 1 ESS binary object programs. Included is a discussion of the PROCESS language, the Compool and macro facilities of the compiler, and some requirements that motivated its design."
"A telephone call goes through six basic stages: (1) detection of a service request, (2) interpretation of the digits dialed, (3) alerting the called customer, (4) establishing a talking connection, (5) call disconnect, and (6) charging. The way in which programs, assisted by circuits and temporary memory, advance a call from one stage to another in no. 1 ESS is described in this article."
"Translations are the means of storing and retrieving office and customer information in a No. 1 electronic switching system installation. The translation scheme must be sufficiently general to handle special telephone services in addition to the items stored as cross connections in present telephone systems. The categories of translation information, the techniques of storage, the means for specifying translation data, and means for making changes therein, are described in this article."
"Plans for testing the hardware, and software and for evaluating over-all system operation of the No. 1 electronic switching system are described. Program and hardware test facilities and the early results achieved using these facilities on the first two no. 1 ESS installations are presented."
"This article describes the results of a data communication experiment designed to investigate the effectiveness of error detection and retransmission in providing high-accuracy data transmission over the switched telephone network. Data were encoded into a Bose-Chaudhuri (31,21) error-detecting code and transmitted at 2000 bits per second by a DATA-PHONE data set 201A over a variety of dialed long-distance connections. Transmitted and received data were compared to obtain error data which were analyzed to obtain an estimate of the error performance of the data set and the effectiveness of the code. The results of this analysis are presented. During the test approximately 6.36 × 107 31-bit code words or 1.97 × 109 bits were transmitted. Of these, 63,002 bits appearing in 29,731 different code words were received incorrectly. Thus, the over-all bit error rate was 3.19 × 10−5 and the word error rate 4.67 × 10−4. The decoder was successful in detecting all but two of the erroneous code words, resulting in an average undetected word error rate of 3.14 × 10−8 or an average of 9.85 × 108 bits between undetected word errors. These results demonstrated that very low undetected error rates can be obtained in practice using an error detection and retransmission system of modest complexity."
"A set of studies has been undertaken to develop guidelines for the design and operation of communications networks with automatic alternate routing. Comparisons are made of engineered costs and overload capability of networks using several alternate routing configurations, and employing a number of different operating and control procedures. The traffic model selected consists of a 34-node network abstracted from the U.S. telephone toll network, with basic load levels obtained from field data. The overload evaluations were made using a simulation program prepared for the IBM 7090 computer."
"The near-field Cassegrainian antenna is a double-reflector system that employs, in its simplest form, confocal paraboloids. Unlike the standard Cassegrain which employs a hyperboloidal subreflector illuminated by a spherical wave, the near-field device is fed by a uniform phase front. Experimental data on noise performance, gain, and radiation patterns have been obtained at a frequency of 6 gc using two 16-foot paraboloids (focal length-to-diameter ratios of 0.375 and 0.25) in both standard and near-field configurations. Using the shallow antenna, zenith noise temperatures of 10°K and 6°K were obtained for the standard and near-field systems, respectively; at an elevation angle of 10° the antenna temperatures were 50°K and 20°K. Using the deep secondary reflector, zenith noise temperatures of 4°K were obtained for both configurations; at 10° above the horizon, however, the standard Cassegrain has an antenna temperature of 30°K and the near-field device 13°K. In all cases, the antenna efficiencies are not far above 50 per cent. Discussion of noise produced by various methods of mounting subreflectors is included. Since noise produced by transmission lines and antenna environment is closely related to these experiments, it is discussed in detail in appendices."
"This article gives the results of an analytical and numerical study of a two-gyro, gravity-oriented communications satellite. The principal purpose of the study was to uncover and solve the analytical problems arising in the design of passive gravity-gradient altitude control systems. Although the study was directed at satellite orientation, it is felt that many of the techniques developed have general use in the investigation of dynamical systems. We consider both small and large motions about the desired earth-pointing orientation. In the small-motion study, the goal is simultaneous optimization of the transient response and the forced response to perturbations caused by orbital eccentricity, magnetic torques, solar torques, thermal rod bending, and micrometeorite impact. In the large-motion study, we enumerate all possible equilibrium positions of the satellite and then consider initial despin after injection into orbit, inversion of the satellite from one stable equilibrium position to another by switching of gyro bias torques, and the decay of transient motions resulting from large initial angular rates. As a specific numerical example, we have treated a 300-lb satellite in a 6000-nm orbit, stabilized by a 60-ft extensible rod with a 20-lb tip mass, and by two single degree-of-freedom gyros, each with an angular momentum of 106 cgs units. Without a detailed discussion of hardware, it is concluded that such a system, having a total weight of 50 to 75 pounds including power supply, will provide a settling time for small disturbances of less than one orbit and will hold the antenna pointing error within a few degrees."
"The problem of optimum reception of binary Gaussian signals is to specify, in terms of the received waveform, a scheme for deciding between two alternative covariance functions with minimum error probability. Although a considerable literature already exists on the problem, an optimum decision scheme has yet to appear which is both mathematically rigorous and convenient for physical application. In the context of a general treatment of the problem, this article presents such a solution. The optimum decision scheme obtained consists in comparing, with a predetermined threshold k, a quadratic form (of function space) in the received waveform x(t), namely, ${\\eqlignno{\\rm choose} \\quad r_{0}(s, t) \\quad if \\int\\int x(s)h(s, t)x(t) \\quad ds dt \\quad \\lt; k, \\cr {\\rm choose} \\quad r_{1}(st) \\quad if \\int\\int x(s)h(s, t)x(t) \\quad ds dt \\geqq k},$ where r0(s, t) and r1(s, t) are the covariance functions while h(s, t) is given as a solution of the integral equation, $\\int\\int r_{0}(s, u)h(u, v)r_{1}(v, t) du dv = r_{1}(s, t) - r_{0}(s, t).$ This may be regarded as a generalization of the “correlation detection” in the case of binary sure signals in noise. Section I defines the problem, reviews the literature, and, together with certain pertinent remarks, summarizes principal results. A detailed mathematical treatment follows in Section II and the Appendices."
"The representation of single-sideband angle-modulated carriers as originally given by Bedrosian is generalized through the functional and spectral notions of distribution theory. In this treatment the class of related modulating signals is extended to rather general types of distributions, and spectral criteria and iteration algorithms are established by which such modulating signals can be recovered from bandlimited components of the modulated carriers."
"This paper reports on some results concerning the properties of integral equations that govern the behavior of a large class of control systems or electrical networks containing linear time-invariant elements and an arbitrary finite number of nonlinear time-varying elements. In particular, for networks containing linear time-invariant elements and an arbitrary finite number of positive-slope nonlinear resistors, it is proved, under reasonable conditions, that the response to a periodic excitation applied at t = 0 is ultimately periodic with the same period as the excitation, regardless of the initial state of the network."
"Dubrovskii's theorem on completely continuous operators that are asymptotic to zero is applied to the study of the existence and uniqueness of periodic responses of nonlinear systems to periodic driving signals. Examples of nonexistence and nonuniqueness are given, a relationship between nonuniqueness and subharmonics is noted, and some general existence theorems are proven, giving estimates on the magnitudes of the harmonics."
"The frequencies, field patterns, and losses of the resonant modes of spherical mirror optical resonators can be obtained to good accuracy as the solutions of the integral equations of Fresnel diffraction theory. By a simple transformation of the variables and parameters of the integral equations, we have found certain families of resonators which have the same diffraction loss at each mirror, and whose field patterns are scaled versions of each other. In the case of the infinite strip resonator, this reduces from five to three the number of parameters necessary to specify the losses and mode patterns."
"Maxwell's equations are solved for a periodic sequence of lens-like focusers separated by gaps. Each focuser consists of an arbitrarily thick slab of dielectric in which the dielectric constant tapers off radially with different quadratic laws in two perpendicular directions. Since there are no limitations on the thickness of the slabs, the solutions cover the complete gamut from a sequence of infinitely thin lenses with astigmatism to a continuous dielectric waveguide, and from spherical to cylindrical lenses. The field configurations of the modes and their propagation constants, as well as the transmission and cutoff bands, are calculated. Any arbitrary input field distribution can then be expanded in terms of the normal modes, and the expansion determines the field everywhere. Formulas derived for sequences of weak lenses turn out to give very good results even for lenses whose thickness and separation are equal to the focal length."
"This article describes the analytical and laboratory studies undertaken to determine if low-carbon steel could be substituted for the more expensive 1 per cent silicon steel in the cores of general-purpose wire spring relays. Not only is this silicon steel more costly, but its hardness characteristics are such that tool maintenance for manufacture is an appreciable item. It was found that this substitution can be made without degrading the performance of these relays, provided the new core is made up of two laminations. When two laminations are used, the eddy current time constant of low-carbon steel matches that of the silicon steel. This is necessary to achieve the fast operate and release times now obtained and to permit satisfactory operation of present circuits when the substitution is made. This substitution will result in substantial annual manufacturing savings for the general-purpose relays. These savings could be further increased if use of the new core could be extended to other, more special, relays of the wire spring relay family. These applications are now under study."
"Fluctuations in received signal amplitude occur during mobile communications because of the motion of the mobile station through the spatial standing-wave pattern resulting from the interaction of direct and reflected signals. A model is presented which permits a theoretical calculation of the power spectrum of these fluctuations and satisfactorily predicts the features of spectra computed from experimental fading data except for an observed rise at low frequencies. The model is based on the geometry of the reflections from nearby randomly placed vertical plane reflectors. Vertical polarization is assumed. Both the standing-wave pattern and the Doppler shift view of fading are used to obtain nearly identical results. The detailed shape and in particular the sharp cutoff frequency of the spectrum are shown to depend crucially on the angle a between the direction of vehicle motion and the direction to the fixed station. Detailed comparisons are made of theoretical spectra with experimental spectra representing a range of the angle α. The collection, digitization, calibration, plotting, and digital processing to obtain power spectra of actual recorded fading waveforms are described."
"Signed space diagrams are described which show the pattern of amplitude and phase variation for several kinds of modulated carrier signals commonly used in digital data transmission. Such diagrams illustrate important similarities and differences among the various modulation methods. Oscilloscope pictures of actual data signal patterns are presented, and it is shown that these patterns can be used to detect the presence of amplitude and delay distortions in the transmission channel."
"Framing of PCM signals can be accomplished by statistical means. For signal samples whose probability distribution tends to be concentrated at the center of the coding range, the second digit of the Gray code generated has a probability of mostly 1's. This information can be used to frame PCM words. Three circuits are proposed that test this probability. Reliability and reframe time for each circuit are obtained either analytically or experimentally. The first circuit uses a pair of racing counters: one counts 0's in the second digit and the other 0's in the third digit of the Gray code. When the system is in-frame, the first counter seldom reaches full count before the second, whereas during out-of-frame either counter can reach full count first with equal probability. The second circuit uses a reversible counter which advances on a 0 and retards on a 1. When connected to the second digit of the Gray code, the preponderance of 1's will keep the counter at or near zero count; when connected to any other digit, where the probability of a 1 is at most 0.5, the counter will reach full count in a finite time. The third circuit uses an RC integrator in place of the reversible counter: each 0 of the second digit generates a pulse to charge the capacitor and each 1 permits the accumulated charge on the capacitor to decay. The action is similar to that of the reversible counter but is difficult to analyze. Experimental framing performance is given for this circuit."
"In two earlier papers∗ in this series, the extent to which a square-integrable function and its Fourier transform can be simultaneously concentrated in their respective domains was considered in detail. The present paper generalizes much of that work to functions of many variables. In treating the case of functions of two variables whose Fourier transforms vanish outside a circle in the two-dimensional frequency plane, we are led to consider the integral equation $\\gamma \\varphi(x) = \\int_{0}^{1} J_{N}(cxy) \\sqrt{cxy} \\varohi(y) dy. \\qquad \\eqno{\\hbox{(i)}}$ It is shown that the solutions are also the bounded eigenfunctions of the differential equation $(1-x^{2}){d^{2}\\varphi \\over dx^{2}} - 2x {d \\varphhi \\over dx} +\\left(x-c^{2}x^{2} + {{1 \\over 4} - N^{2} \\over x^{2}}\\right) \\varphi = 0. \\qquad \\eqno{\\hbox{(ii)}}$ a generalization of the equation for the prolate spheroidal wave functions. The functions ϕ (called “generalized prolate spheroidal functions”) and the eigenvalues of both (i) and (ii) are studied in detail here, and both analytic and numerical results are presented. Other results include a general perturbation scheme for differential equations and the reduction to two dimensions of the case of functions of D > 2 variables restricted in frequency to the D sphere."
"In a recent study1 of the recverabillty of square-integrable bandlimited signals that arc distorted by a frequency-selective time-varying nonlinear system and subsequently arc bandlimited to the original bands, certain assumptions were made concerning three of the four functions of frequency that characterize the linear time-invariant part of the system. These assumptions, which are stated in Section 3.4 of Ref. 1, are satisfied in most, but not all, cases of engineering interest. The purpose of this note is to report on an extension of Theorem I of Ref. 1 that covers cases in which the conditions of Section 3.4 of Ref. 1 arc not met. More specifically, a proof of the following result is outlined."
"Studies of the photoelastic, electro-optic or magnetic-optic properties of meterials at high frequencies often the detection of microwave moduklated light. In many cases, the modulation depth is sufficiently small that quantitative measurement becomes difficult if not impossible. The purpose of this brief is to describe a homodyne-superheterodyne technique which allows measurement of modulation depth of considerably less than 10−6."
"The problem considered here is that of coding for the time-discrete amplitude-continuos memoryless channel with additive Gaussion noise, the code words lying on the surface of an n-dimensional hypersphere with center at the origin and radius $\\sqrt{np}$."
"Submarine cable systems of a new design have recently been installed between Florida and Panama, between New Jersey and Cornwall, England, and between Hawaii and Japan. Using a single lightweight armorless cable for most of the route, with electron tube amplifiers encased in rigid containers at 20-mile intervals, this type of system will carry 128 channels in each direction. More detailed discussion of cable, repeaters, and power equipment will be found in companion articles. This article outlines the system development objectives, gives an over-all system description, and describes the equalization plan and terminal equipment."
"A low-loss coaxial ocean cable has been developed to be used as the transmission medium for the SD system. The strength member of the new cable is located inside the inner conductor. In deep-sea applications only a plastic jacket is required to protect the coaxial; in shallow water, where mechanical hazards are great, armor wires are applied over the coaxial in a more or less traditional manner. A major concern in the development of the cable was that its transmission characteristics be predictable and be stable with time. This necessitated the consideration of mechanical and electrical requirements as one problem. Over 10,000 nautical miles of the new cable is performing satisfactorily in systems reaching to Europe, Asia, and Central America."
"The major portion of the cable used in an SD system is of an armorless coaxial design, with a strength member within the inner conductor structure. It is fabricated in continuous 20-nautical mile repeater sections and is stored, when finished, in individual pans. Every section is therefore available in any sequence to facilitate the most nearly ideal ship loading schedule. This paper summarizes the process experience gained during the cable design and development program, details the processes involved in the purchase of cable raw material, discusses the manufacturing operation, and includes a measure of cable reproducibility for the Baltimore plant of the Western Electric Company."
"An equivalent four-wire repeater and an adjustable equalizer are described. The repeater incorporates a low-aging design to reduce the effect of electron tube gain changes. The equalizer contains a number of bridged-T networks, some of which can be switched in or out by a selector. The high-pressure container which houses either unit is made up of a beryllium copper cylinder with welded dome covers. Electrical connections are made through polyethylene-metal seals."
"Manufacture of two-way rigid repeaters and ocean-block equalizers at a rate equivalent to approximately 7000 miles of cable a year required the establishment of a new plant. A suitable building was constructed and equipped to maintain the closely controlled environmental conditions essential to attaining the quality required to assure a minimum product life of 20 years. An organization was established and trained to operate the plant. Special facilities were developed for manufacture and testing, including automatic readout and transmission of the test information to a data center where the results are recorded in a punched card system and analyzed by machine. The facilities, their use, production methods from procurement of materials to packing of completed repeaters and equalizers, and precautions taken to attain and assure the required high quality are reviewed on the following pages."
"Three new codes of electron tubes of the high reliability that is required for submarine cable service have been developed for use in the type SD systems. The basic philosophy was much the same as that which proved successful in designing tubes for the earlier cable systems. However, in order to meet the one-megacycle bandwidth requirement of the new system, it was necessary to extend such amplifier tube design considerations as transconductance, cathode current density and interelectrode spacing. The emphasis in this paper is on designing for reliability, since the amplifier tube is electronically quite conventional. In the field of protective devices, the new gas-filled cold cathode tubes also offer conservative and reliable applications of established design techniques."
"Submarine cable system power supplies must be designed to provide an uninterrupted flow of precisely controlled, transient-free operating power for a time interval equal to the service life of the cable system. Heavy reliance on redundancy along with conservative application of semiconductor and magnetic circuit elements form the basis for the circuit design. The equipment design emphasizes the techniques required to withstand high voltages, provide ease of maintenance and insure personnel safely. Saturable reactors operated in the constrained mode serve as the basic power control element. AC power for the saturable reactors is obtained from a transistor inverter fed from a continuously floated storage battery. Metering-type magnetic amplifiers are used to isolate the regulation, metering and alarm circuits from the high-voltage output. Transistor amplifiers and temperature-compensated silicon reference diodes complete the regulating loop."
"In order fully to utilize new broadband submarine cable systems it has been necessary to consider new techniques for placing the system on the ocean bottom. This article describes the general development plan that resulted in a new cable ship capable of efficiently handling any new system. The article thus serves as an introduction to the remaining articles of this special issue."
"This paper describes the development of methods and equipment for handling cable and repeaters in laying submarine cable systems and the application of these developments to C.S. “Long Lines.” Both the laying process and the associated operation of assembling the system components in preparation for laying are described."
"This paper describes the development of cable machinery and control equipment capable of laying modern submarine cable systems. The necessity for reliable continuous operation is established, and the problems involved in gripping armorless cable are pointed out. The concept of a linear cable engine is introduced, and the evolution of a track design is followed through several model stages. The various test programs employed to establish feasibility, prove-in component reliability, and check performance of the final machine are discussed. A control philosophy is presented and the development of a control system is described. Final design, construction, and testing of the cable machinery and its control equipment are covered briefly."
"The C.S. “Long Lines” was designed both to lay the new SD submarine cable system and to repair new and existing undersea cables. Within the limits imposed by this dual purpose, an entirely new cable ship design has been evolved which gives maximum working efficiency, maneuverability, and stability. While most of the special features of the ship — wide-range power plant, cable storage and handling facilities, etc. — are the result of its special function, a great deal of attention has been paid to providing optimum working conditions for, and safety of, the ship's complement."
"Development of systems for long-distance communications using laser beams is of considerable current interest. A major problem is to avoid losses in transmission systems for light. Losses by scattering and absorption in solid transmission schemes arc likely to be large. By using gases as the media that guide the light beam, such losses should be minimized. A number of schemes in which gases can be made to guide a light beam have recently been in vestigated."
"Because of the current interest in gas lenses for possibe use in longdistance laser beam transmission, it seems worthwhile to report on the successful operation of an example of another class of gas lenses. This class of lenses utilizes the difference of specific refractive index of different gases to achieve focusing in a region where there is a variation in relative concentration of different gases. In the device to be described, two gases flow together continuously from opposing tubes into a mixing chamber. The chamber is designed so that t he effective interface where the gases meet is an axially symmetric curved surface, which acts as a lens for light passing down the axis of t he opposing tubes."
"We present here a general and rigorous theory of the jitter accumulation in a chain of regenerative repeaters. The sources of jitter are assumed to be the signal-dependent sources, as distinguished from purely random sources independent of the signal. Our results show that while the absolute jitter and its dispersion grow without bound with the number of repeaters, the spacing and the alignment jitter remain bounded. In particular, the spacing jitter bounds are quite optimistic for most practical situations, viz., no greater than twice the absolute jitter injected at a single repeater. This result is of importance in that it ensures proper decoding of the binary signal. Its further importance is that it does ensure, in most cases, the validity of the basic model and thus the validity of other results obtained by that model. One such result shows that the alignment jitter is slowly-varying for repeaters farther along the chain. We also include some results which would be of use in computations, together with a simple example."
"The rate equations of Statz and De Mars giving the time development of the inversion and photon number in a maser or laser are discussed analytically with the aid of a mechanical analogy in which a particle moves in a potential well under the influence of a viscous damping force. The coordinate of this particle is analogous to the logarithm of the light output of the laser, and the amplitude, period, and damping of the motion can be directly related to the parameters of the rate equations. Simple analytic approximations are developed for all of the quantities of experimental interest in the spiking pattern of a laser. Four relationships are given, which do not contain any of the rate equation parameters, whereby a spike pattern can be tested to determine if it is consistent with the usual rate equations. Systematic procedures are described for extracting all of the information contained in spike patterns."
"A design procedure is presented for readily obtaining sampled-data filter representations of continuous filters. The procedure utilizes the bilinear z transformation and preserves the essential amplitude characteristics of the continuous filter over the frequency range between zero and one-half the sampling frequency. It is shown that the procedure can yield meaningful sampled-data filter designs for many of those filters where the standard z transform cannot be used directly."
"This is the third and last in a series of papers describing the ALPAK system for nonnumerical algebra on a digital computer. The first paper1 is concerned with polynomials in several variables and truncated power series with polynomial coefficients. The second paper2 is concerned with rational functions in several variables and truncated power series with rational-function coefficients. The present paper discusses systems of linear equations with rational-function coefficients and a certain class of side relations. The ALPAK system has been programmed within the BE-SYS-4 monitor system on the IBM 7090 computer, but the language and concepts are machine independent. Several practical applications are described in Ref. 1. This paper is divided into six sections. The first two assume that the reader has no knowledge of computers or computer programming and the last four assume that the reader is familiar with basic computer programming and Refs. 1 and 2. Section I is a general description of ALPAK and this paper; Section II discusses the different forms in which a linear system can occur, including canonical form; Section III describes the ALPAK linear system operations for converting these forms; Section IV discusses side relations; Section V describes list naming operations; and Section VI discusses possible future developments and improvements."
"The measurement of very small optical losses (the order of a few per cent) by conventional methods becomes very difficult because of the extreme accuracy required. This article shows that both high mirror reflectances and low transmission losses can be readily measured using an oscillating mirror interferometer as a frequency spectrum analyzer. The theory developed shows that when this type of interferometer is excited by a continuous gaseous laser, the total optical loss is proportional to the frequency resolution or the finesse. The theory also shows that the first-order velocity effect produced by having the mirror move at a velocity of one foot per hour can be large if the total optical loss is about 0.25 per cent. For the velocities and optical losses we have encountered so far in our measurement system, the first-order minor velocity effect can be neglected. The range of reflectance of mirrors we have measured is from 94 to 99.5 per cent, and the measurements for the optical transmission loss range from 0.2 to 3 per cent. The accuracy to which a 1 per cent loss can be repeated is 1.0 ± 0.1 per cent. It was found that the transmission loss through an optical grade of fused quartz (Homosil) at 6328 Å is about 1 db per meter, and that for Plexiglas II is about 2 db per meter."
"Let εN denote the set of N-vector-valued functions of t defined on [0, ∞) such that for any real positive number y, the square of the modulus of each component of any element is integrable on [0, y], and let L2N(0, ∞) denote the subset of εN with the property that the square of the modulus of each component of any element is integrable on [0, ∞). In the study of nonlinear physical systems, attention is frequently focused on the properties of one of the following two types of functional equations $\\eqalignno{g &= f + KQf \\cr g &= Kf + Qf}$ in which K and Q are causal operators, with K linear and Q nonlinear, g ε εN, and f is a solution belonging to εN. Typically, f represents the system response and g takes into account both the independent energy sources and the initial conditions at t = 0. It is often important to determine conditions under which a physical system governed by one of the above equations is stable in the sense that the response to an arbitrary set of initial conditions approaches zero (i.e., the zero vector) as t → ∞. In a great many cases of this type, g belongs to L2N(0, ∞) and approaches zero as t → ∞ for all initial conditions, and, in addition, it is possible to show that if f ε L2N(0, ∞), then f(t) → 0 as t → ∞. In this paper we attack the stability problem by deriving conditions under which g ε L2N (0, ∞) and f ε εN imply that f ε L2N(0, ∞). From an engineering viewpoint, the assumption that f ε LN is almost invariably a trivial restriction. As a specific application of the results, we consider a nonlinear integral equation that governs the behavior of a general control system containing linear time-invariant elements and an arbitrary finite number of time-varying nonlinear elements. Conditions are presented under which every solution of this equation belonging to εN in fact belongs to L2N(0, ∞) and approaches zero as t → ∞."
"It is proved that a condition similar to the Nyquist criterion guarantees the stability (in an important sense) of a large class of feedback systems containing a single time-varying nonlinear element. In the case of principal interest, the condition is satisfied if the locus of a certain complex-valued function (a) is bounded away from a particular disk located in the complex plane, and (b) does not encircle the disk."
"We consider the resistance of an infinite slab measured between an electrode covering one face and a circular electrode attached to the other face by a uniform resistive film representing a contact resistance. Upper and lower bounds are found mi the difference between the total resistance and the resistance of the film alone. The bounds are obtained by a combination of analysis and experiment, using an electrolytic tank. The results may be applied to determine contact resistance from a measured value of total resistance and a knowledge of the bulk resistivity of the slab material."
"In the interest of providing good telephone service with efficient connecting networks, it is desirable to have at hand a knowledge of some of the combinatorial properties of such networks. One of these properties is rearrangeability: a connecting network is rearrangeable if its permitted states realize every assignment of inlets to outlets, or alternatively, if given any state x of the network, any inlet idle in x, and any outlet idle in x, there is a way of assigning new routes (if necessary) to the calls in progress in x so that the idle inlet can be connected to the idle outlet. A natural algebraic and combinatorial approach to the study of rearrangeable networks is described, with attention centered principally on two-sided networks built of stages of square crossbar switches, each stage having N inlets and N outlets. The approach is based in part on the elementary theory of permutation groups. The principal problem posed (and partly answered) is this: What connecting networks built of stages are rearrangeable? Sufficient conditions, including all previously known results, are formulated and exemplified."
"A rearrangeable connecting network is one whose permitted states realize every assignment of inlets to outlets — that is, one in which it is possible to rearrange existing calls so as to put in any new call. In the effort to provide adequate telephone service with efficient networks it is of interest to be able to select rearrangeable networks (from suitable classes) having a minimum number of crosspoints. This problem is fully resolved for the class of connecting networks built of stages of identical square switches arranged symmetrically around a center stage: roughly, the optimal network should have as many stages as possible, with switches that are as small as possible, the largest switches being in the center stage; the cost (in crosspoints per inlet) of an optimal network of N inlets and N outlets is nearly twice the sum of the prime divisors of N, while the number of its stages is 2×−1, where x is the number of prime divisors of N, in each case counted according to their multiplicity. By using a large number of stages, these designs achieve a far greater combinatorial efficiency than has been attained heretofore."
"Techniques for both attitude determination and prediction for spin-stabilized satellites are developed. Their use is demonstrated using Telstar I and II satellite data. It is shown that an inclined dipole model of the earth's magnetic field and the method of averaging the gravitational and magnetic torques over each anomalistic period of the satellite permits attitude predictions to within a few tenths of a degree of determined values in most instances. In those few cases where departures are above one degree, explanations are presented to show the reason for such discrepancies. The usefulness of combining optical flash and solar sensor data for attitude determination and their inherent accuracy are demonstrated. Optical flash data can provide loci with a resolution of 0.1°. Solar sensor loci are resolved to within 1°. All techniques described have been consolidated into working computer programs which follow closely the mathematical analysis presented. A number of important supporting calculations such as the solar position, sidereal time, orbit updating, etc. are also developed. Because of the complexities of the mean torque and gyroscopic equations, the precessional techniques presented are most useful in computer embodiments."
"The transmission of light waves for communication in a medium sheltered from atmospheric effects requires wave guidance providing frequent changes in direction of propagation. This paper shows that, in any electromagnetic waveguide having transverse planes in which the field is essentially equiphase, the transverse width of the field distribution 2a and wavelength λ determine the order of magnitude of the direction-determining parameters, Rmin, the minimum bending radius, and δmax, the maximum abrupt angular changes, according to the relations $\\eqalignno{R_{min} = 2(a^{3}/ \\lambda^{2}) \\cr \\delta_{max} = {1 \\over 2}(\\lambda /a)$ which are valid in the region λ < a. The significance of RMIN is apparent, with the note that in a system containing a multiplicity of bends, an appropriate way of summing the effects of the individual bends should be used to establish an over-all equivalent bend radius for the complete transmission path, which must be larger than Rmin. The quantity δmax may be regarded as the maximum value of the accumulated angular errors (rms sum, for example) in a transmission line including reflecting or refracting elements for directional control. For a light beam at λ = 0.6328 microns having a diameter of 1.0 mm, δmax = 0.036° and Rmin = 600 meters. Small-diameter beams ease the problem of directional control. There is no fundamental reason why small beams should not be achievable with low loss in the straight condition, but many guiding structures do have an inverse relation between beam diameter and straight-condition attenuation coefficient. To explore the direction-controlling properties of specific media and the interaction of Rmin and δmax with straight attenuation coefficient, the following waveguides and associated criteria for establishing Rmin and δmax were studied:"
"A series of lenses whose focusing properties are alternately convergent and divergent (alternating-gradient focusing) is of potential interest in the guidance of light waves, and has previously been used to focus electron beams and high-energy particle streams. New information is provided herein on such focusing for the case of equal focal length f (but alternating-gradient) lenses equally spaced a distance L. The alternating-gradient system formed by adding diverging lenses between the lenses of an all-converging sequence of lenses is found to have the same stability condition as the original system for 0 < L/f < 2. A physical argument leads to the conclusion that weaker divergent lenses would also leave the stability criterion unchanged. The focusing effect of the alternating-gradient system is surprisingly close to that of an all-converging lens system. After the focal length of each has been adjusted to an optimum value, the ray departure from the system axis is only 1.67 times as great for the alternating-gradient system as for an all-convergent lens system with the same spacing of convergent lenses. For weak lenses (i.e. 2f/L ≫ 1) the output ray departure due to input ray displacement is independent of both the focal length and spacing of the lenses, and is independent of lens spacing but proportional to focal length for input ray slope. Both the alternating-gradient system and all-convergent lens focusing arrangements exhibit discontinuities in the maximum ray displacement versus focal strength relation. Viewed over-all, alternating-gradient focusing for light guidance does a surprisingly efficient job and may be advantageous over all-convergent lens systems if the alternating-gradient arrangement has structural or economic advantages."
"If a cool gas is blown into a hot tube, it acts as a positive lens which will focus a light beam passing through the tube. Using a theory presented in Ref. 3, we give curves which show the temperature distribution in the tube as a function of the distance from the tube axis and also as a function of the distance along the axis. The focusing power of the lens is described by the difference in phase angle between a ray on the tube axis minus a ray at arbitrary distances from this axis and also as the second derivative of the phase angle on the axis of the tube. The phase curves, as a function of distance r from the tube axis, follow very closely an r2 dependence. Expressions are given for the focal length of the lens. The power consumption of the lens is discussed, and a figure of merit is defined as focusing power per watt. The gas used for this lens should be selected such that (n − 1)/k is as large as possible (where n is the index of refraction, k the heat conductivity of the gas). Using CO2 and a ¼-inch ID tube 5 inches long heated 20°C above the incoming gas, a focal length of 5 feet with a power consumption of 0.325 watt is calculated; the focal length is inversely proportional to power consumption within certain limits."
"The field configurations and propagation constants of the normal modes are determined for a hollow circular waveguide made of dielectric material or metal for application as an optical waveguide. The increase of attenuation due to curvature of the axis is also determined. The attenuation of each mode is found to be proportional to the square of the free-space wavelength λ and inversely proportional to the cube of the cylinder radius a. For a hollow dielectric waveguide made of glass with v = 1.50, λ = 1μ, and a = 1 mm, an attenuation of 1.85 db/km is predicted for the minimum-loss mode, EH11. This loss is doubled for a radius of curvature of the guide axis R ≈, 10 km. Hence, dielectric materials do not seem suitable for use in hollow circular waveguides for long distance optical transmission because of the high loss introduced by even mild curvature of the guide axis. Nevertheless, dielectric materials are shown to be very attractive as guiding media for gaseous amplifiers and oscillators, not only because of the low attenuation but also because the gain per unit length of a dielectric tube containing He-Ne “masing” mixture at the right pressure can be considerably enhanced by reducing the tube diameter. In this application, a small guide radius is desirable, thereby making the curvature of the guide axis not critical. For λ = 0.6328μ and optimum radius a = 0.058 mm, a maximum theoretical gain of 7.6 db/m is predicted. It is shown that the hollow metallic circular waveguide is far less sensitive to curvature of the guide axis. This is due to the comparatively large complex dielectric constant exhibited by metals at optical frequencies. For a wavelength λ = 1μ and a radius a = 0.25 mm, the attenuation for the minimum loss TE01 mode in an aluminum waveguide is only 1.8 db/km. This loss is doubled for a radius of curvature as short as R ≈ 48 meters. For λ = 3μ and a = 0.6 mm, the attenuation of the TE01 mode is also 1.8 db/km. The radius of curvature which doubles this loss is approximately 75 meters. The"
"In the automatic control literature, a feedback system is frequently said to be stable if, regardless of the initial state of the system, each bounded input applied at t = 0 produces a bounded output. The purpose of this brief is to present a sufficient condition for the feedback system of Fig. 1 to be stable in this sense."
"The refractive index of gas is an inverse function of its temperature under isobaric conditions. Therefore a cols gas flowing into a heated tube will have a lower refractive index near the heated walls than in the center, and the combination becomes a convex lens which will focus a light beam transmitted through the tube.1,2"
"Different gases have different refractive indexes. If two different gases are introduced into different parts of a st raight hollow tube and allowed to continue in laminar flow, they diffuse into each other slowly but remain sufficiently separated so that a refractive index gradient is maintained for some distance. It has been suggested by A. R. Hutson, G. E. Conklin, and the author that various optical components such as prisms and lenses can be ohtained by using such gaseous structures. These components have very low losses and reflections, with no solid surfaces to cause matching or cleaning problems. For these reasons they may have important applications in optical conununications systems.1,2,3"
"A graphical representation of the relationshiops between the parameters of Hermite Gaussina light beams has been introduced recently1,2 by S. A. collins, Jr. T. Li has pointed out3 that collins' chart has tow equivalent forms. Collins' chart related the spot redius and phase front curvature at any position ont he beam to the position and spot radius of the beam waist. In this note we point out that a similar chart can be made which relates the curvature parameters4,5 of any two phase fronts along a Gaussian beam and the spot radii on those phase fronts. The curvature parameters are defined as $g_{1} = 1 - d/R_{1}, g_{2} = 1-d/R_{2},$ where $R_{1}$ and $R_{2}$ are the raddi of curvature of the phase fronts, and $d$ is their separation. This new chart directly relates mirror curvatures and spot radii in a spherical mirror resonator."
"Gas ion lasers1 operate at discharge currents of several amperes in small-bore tubing. Under these conditions the cischarge acts to pump gas from the cathode to the anode2 and pressure differences in excess of 10:1 can be established in less than one minute of dhscharge operation. Since the optimum pressure range for laser operation in narrowly defined relative to the range of pressures existing in the discharge tube (see Fig. 1). laser action usually deteriorates or goes out shorty after turn-on."
"The year 1963 showed continued advancement both economically and technologically in the motion-picture and television fields."
"A joint subcommittee of the Television and Color Committees has been working to establish recommended practices for density and contrast range for color films for color television. During the subcommittee's work it became evident that optimum control of release print density range could be achieved only if the original photography were carefully controlled; therefore, it was felt essential to provide an appendix to the recommended practice which would discuss in some detail the “considerations in color film production for color television.” — Certain factors in color TV film transmission and reception make it desirable to control the characteristics of the color print. The degree and type of controls that can be applied are affected by properties of the color film. The density range of the color print is most effectively and economically controlled in the staging and photography, rather than in the final printing. Reflectance of fully illuminated scene elements that are to be reproduced with good detail should be held between recommended maximum and minimum limits to control the “reference white” and “reference black” of each scene, and face tones should be properly related to these limits. For a fully lighted day interior scene, a lighting ratio of 2:1 is recommended. Higher ratios may be used for special effects and night scenes."
"A balance of the functions to be performed by the film in obtaining high-quality 8mm release prints is described. Dimensions and experimental results are presented for an improved 8mm motion-picture film format in which the perforations are smaller and closer to one edge while the soundtrack is placed adjacent to the other edge. The space between the perforations and the soundtrack permits a wider picture, which, when coupled with an increase in pitch, yields a film format having approximately 50% more projected picture area. Image sizes are a 1.8 to 1 reduction from 16mm dimensions. The film dimensions and the reasons for their selection are described in relation to both picture and sound quality in a system for making 8mm commercial prints."
"Existing and proposed dimensions for 16 and 8mm films are reviewed, with particular reference to image and soundtrack quality, and its limitations. The parameters of 16 and 8mm films are seen as precluding any significant improvement in the utilization of the frame areas without the use of new equipment, and the abandonment of existing projection equipment is seen as impractical."
"A major advance toward reducing the cost of motion-picture prints, projection equipment and special viewing facilities has been made with the development of 8mm variable-area photographic sound that can be contact printed. The many advantages of this technological achievement can be fully realized only through close working relationships among makers and users of this medium of communication."
"Tests have been made with a recorder built to produce variable-area 8mm negatives suitable for high-speed duplication, using the 8mm standard picture format and the suggested 0.050 by 0.050-in. perforation, with the sound located between the outer edge of the perforations and the edge of the film."
"Telecine systems are surveyed generally, and the various forms of flying-spot and camera-tube telecines are described, attention being given to their application to multistandard and color operation. In particular, reference is made to the ability of certain systems to operate alternatively on 50- or 60-fields/sec standards. Possible future developments are discussed, including the application to telecine systems of remote, semiattended and automatic operation."
"Technical aspects of electronic editing are reviewed. The possibility of recording (inserting) video while retaining the audio track is substantiated. Early programing techniques are compared with those of the present. Tape handling problems are discussed. Freeze-frame and speed-up action can be obtained by animation-editing tape to tape. The side effects are analyzed."
"Acoustic problems arising in hemispherical enclosures are discussed. The acoustic design and the results of acoustic measurements of the recently completed Cinerama Center Theatre in Hollywood are then described. This Theatre features a “geodesic dome,” or quasi-hemispherical vault."
"The physical characteristics of xenon flashtubes are reviewed. In particular, the spectral output of xenon lamps is discussed in terms of watts per unit wavelength for different wavelengths and current densities. Attention is given to the effects of varying the pressure, length and diameter of the flashtube on the total light output, and the conversion efficiency of electrical to optical power. Additionally, the influence of the exciting pulse shape on the conversion efficiency is described, along with some problems in impedance matching for the driving source."
"“Gold is where you find it.” The Historical and Museum Committee of our Society is seeking “gold” in the form of good historical papers either written by pioneers of our industry or by others who have specialized knowledge of important pioneering work. It is not an easy task to assemble the data for such papers because old photographs and records frequently are buried or lost. Memory of past events becomes dim with the passing of time. Long searches are necessary in museums or private collections to unearth pertinent facts. Interviews are sometimes necessary with persons who may have some knowledge of the event. When the data have been collected and organized, only then can the writing be done. — William F. Kruse here describes the contributions made by a Past-President of our Society, Willard B. Cook, to the early history of 28mm and 16mm film distribution for educational, industrial, governmental and home use. Emphasis is placed on the importance of using only “slow-burning” safety film for this purpose rather than the more hazardous, inflammable nitrate film then in common use in motion-picture theaters. Mr. Cook recognized these facts and, along with Alexander Victor (Jour. SMPTE 72 : 614-1327, August, 1963), took a strong stand in favor of restricting films for nontheatrical use to the safety acetate type."
"The Recent Intense interest in the possible improvement of small-format films, originally designed for home movie use, in ways that would increase applicability to educational and industrial situations has led to many suggestions for changes of format from that which is embodied in today's 8mm standards. Since these many suggestions include mutually incompatible alternatives, importance is attached to the establishment of a selection process by which good technical and business decisions can be reached. One pressure has developed for the Society to change the organization of its Standards work in ways which, hopefully, would speed up the process of adoption of Standards. The implication is that the selections made by a revised organization would bring order rapidly out of today's plethora of ideas in spite of a paucity of adequately established performance data and prototype equipment units."
"With the growth of television there has been an increasing demand for larger and more sophisticated switching equipment. The use of relay or semiconductor matrices is not economical in cost or space with increased size of equipment. In a search for an alternative switching element, the choice fell on the standard type of Post Office uniselector or stepping relay. The unit and its advantages are described."
"Two novel methods provide ways of producing electronic special effects in television. By superposing suitably modulated signals on the deflection currents, e.g., on those of a TV camera, it is possible to modify the geometry of the picture and to obtain a multitude of different effects, which, for example, may be used in entertainment productions. By means of an additional modulation, the sinusoidal or pulse-shaped alterations of geometry can be moved, for instance, in the rhythm of a piece of music. By differentiating and shaping the video signal of a normal television picture, outline pictures containing only the edged structures can be produced. In order to obtain the horizontal parts of the outlines, it is necessary to differentiate in the vertical direction by means of an ultrasonic quartz delay line."
"The photosensitive layer of the Plumbicon is an evaporated microcrystalline layer of lead monoxide. The most significant advantages of the Plumbicon are the low dark current, the high speed of response, which is independent of light intensity, and the high sensitivity. In the Plumbicon, every picture gives a signal that is dependent solely on the light-intensity projected on that particular picture element within the proper time-limits and is unaffected by disturbing effects known from other pickup tubes. This new tube is expected to prove especially suitable for color television."
"The widening scope of remote telecasting has emphasized the need for a truly portable video recording device. A recorder employing a two-headed, 180° helical scan technique has been designed to afford mobility, operational simplicity and dependability with a minimum of adjustment and attention. It can record an entire field of picture lines in one continuous head track. The design permits the use of tape one inch in width; a $10{1\\over2}$-in. reel of tape provides a total storage time of 96 min. Consideration of the factors entering into the design shows how reductions in size, complexity and cost have been achieved."
"During the 1954 Photokina in Germany the Zeiss-Ikon Company exhibited a motion-picture projector lamphouse designed to be used with a xenon high-pressure lamp. Since that time the use of the xenon lamp as a projector light source has been constantly increasing. A survey was undertaken to determine some of the lamp's distinctive characteristics under typical operation. Data supplied by the survey are presented in this paper, which emphasizes aspects of the xenon lamp in practical projection operation, rather than technical details of the xenon gas discharge lamp and auxiliary equipment."
"A Television Feasibility Demonstration carried out by the U.S. Army Missile Command was designed to check the feasibility of combat missile battalions' using a miniature television station as a reconnaissance device. The device, carried aloft by a Redstone ballistic missile and ejected at a point after apogee, was expected to assess immediately the damage inflicted to a target by a ballistic missile warhead. Important phases of the demonstration included development and application of a three-camera recoverable photographic instrumentation system to all four scheduled Redstone demonstration shots. There were special problems involved in the development of the photographic system for which specific solutions were employed. The motion-picture cameras photographed the separation of the missile warhead from the rocket booster; the TV capsule ejection device upon activation; and the initial 25 sec of TV capsule flight in space, recording any phenomena related to roll, pitch and yaw."
"This Note is Prompted by a number of requests I have had for a description of the footage counter used in our dubbing studio, Capital Film Laboratories, 470 E St. S.W., Washington 24, D.C. The following description and accompanying illustrations have been prepared as a possible guide for technicians who wish to construct a similar system or remodel an existing system."
"The Nine Definitions presented here constitute a revision of terms published in this Journal in February 1955. Both the original report and this revision were drafted by the Television Studio Lighting Subcommittee on Nomenclature and widely circulated. The Committee welcomes suggestions and comments."
"The Spring Technical conference of the Society, back in Los Angeles after two years away. was a marked success. Formal registration for the technical sessions topped 1,200, and more than a thousand additional registrants viewed the Equipment Exhibit."
"The New York World's Fair offers a unique opportunity for summer visitors and persons attending the Society's 96th Technical Conference, September 27-October 2, to survey novel developments in motion-picture projection and other audio-visual techniques, and in cinematography."
"Journals Available/Wanted"
"Stratoscope II is a large and complex balloon-borne astronomical telescope operated in the stratosphere by radio command. This paper describes the television system developed for this equipment to permit the astronomer to see through the telescope for the purpose of acquiring the astronomical objects to be studied. Results of the instrument's first flight are briefly described and plans for future flights outlined."
"The usual photographic instrumentation for tests of low-flying missiles is inherently limited by usable fields of coverage or in capacity for tracking at high angular velocities. A camera mount has been developed which avoids limitations by using a rotating mirror to deviate the line of sight. The mirror motion is produced by a rotating cam which may be shaped to conform to various trajectory conditions."
"The components of the motion-picture camera are analyzed by the various ways of designing each component. The purpose is to help the camera designer provide the capabilities that will be most beneficial to the cinematographer. The cinematographer should also be helped to select a camera having the features that will be most useful to him for his particular type of work."
"A color print film stock, T.953, has been designed to improve definition and color saturation. Compared with earlier films, the new film has an inverted structure: bottom layer—blue sensitive, yellow coupler, silver bromide; middle layer—red sensitive, cyan coupler, silver chloride; and top layer—green sensitive, magenta coupler, silver chloride. Besides using magenta and cyan dyes which disappear in the processing, the film has a removable carbon black antihalation layer. Spectral sensitivity curves, processing formulas and procedure are presented."
"The measurement of photographic density is required in order to specify the characteristics of photosensitive materials and to determine the optimum conditions of their use. In the motionpicture industry, however, agreement of measurements made in different laboratories is unsatisfactory. The cause is in part due to variations in technique."
"Excerpts from letters and reports from Regional Chairmen quoted by Chairman Ross add greatly to the interest of this first report. In addition, there are presented below: an addendum (including a photograph) to “The History of Films in South Africa,” by E. C. Howes (November, 1963, Journal, pp. 882-885); a brief report on activities in East Africa of Alexander Shaw of Kampala, Uganda; and excerpts from letters of acceptance of Committee appointment by Robert Kingston Davies of Nairobi, Kenya, East Africa; P. J. Gibbs of Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria; and J. K. Asare of Accra, Ghana. Other reports are from Geoffrey Mangin of Salisbury, S. Rhodesia; and E. J. Verschueren of Hilversum, The Netherlands. Finally, two items of news and historical interest are reprinted from India, courtesy of Jag Mohan and Kodak Limited; and an historical ptoject is described by Dr. Adolf Hermann of Czechoslovakia"
"The rapidly expanding photoinstrumentation field has generated a nomenclature quite unique unto itself. William C. Hyzer undertook the responsibility of documenting these terms and the generally accepted definitions. A preliminary subcommittee report to the Instrumentation and High-speed Photography Committee of the SMPTE is published here for public information with the anticipation that interested readers will comment on the terms chosen and the correctness and utility of the definitions. Your comments should be addressed to William C. Hyzer, 205 Wall St., Janesville, Wis. -Alex E. Alden, Staff Engineer."
"A number of the papers published in this issue of the Journal are concerned with the contributions of motion pictures and television to education. The papers describe efforts moving toward a common objective, the improvement of education; but despite this common objective there is a diversity of approach."
"An experimental study in the visual and aural comprehension of compressed speech required in the development of techniques for synchronization of sound and picture elements. Original video-tape recording, electronic film transfer, skip-frame printing and compressed audio-tape recordings are used in the process."
"The technology of teaching machines and programed learning refers not so much to special kinds of hardware as to how hardware can be put to use. This is clearly reflected in the way today's proliferation of teaching-machine hardware shows an increasing emphasis on use of the motion picture. Devices commercially available and under development utilize as many as four motion-picture projectors in synchronous operation. This emphasis strongly suggests that the creative motion-picture engineer stands in the same relationship to the field of automated instruction as he does to other major areas of applied motion-picture technology."
"A research project at USC required a teaching machine to present sound motion-picture information in a stop-start manner with the capability of branching to different sequences on the basis of the student's response. Four projectors allow immediate access to the branches, while relay logic maintains synchronism between the machines. The unit, which employs standard film production procedures and off-the-shelf equipment, is low in cost and simple to program."
"It is generally believed that as funds become available, we can expect more educational television stations to acquire mobile video-tape units. With this development will come the need to define the limits of operating such a unit within the framework of educational broadcasting. The experience of WGBH-TV in Boston with its mobile unit and the way that producers at that station are using the mobile video-tape unit are discussed."
"Incorporating research findings in its own field, in addition to those drawn from experimental work in programed instruction and teaching machines, instructional television has moved to involve the student as a participant in the lesson rather than as exclusively an observer of it. The acceptance of these principles and techniques, and of television for classroom use in general, is perhaps best illustrated by the large number of voluntary viewers to be found in southeastern New England."
"A professional broadcasting approach is necessary for efficient communication in educational television. This approach can be made only through professional standards for equipment and facilities, personnel and procedures."
"In many of the nation's dental schools, closed-circuit TV provides large groups of students with close-up views of the face and oral cavity undergoing professional treatment. The television medium is particularly useful for this purpose, since the camera reveals more than the view afforded the handful of students that can be grouped around a dental chair for the traditional “live” demonstration of technical procedures. The University of Pennsylvania has used television as a teaching adjunct for the past eight years and two years ago upgraded its facilities by installing broadcast-quality equipment. This paper discusses the University's work with television in dental teaching, and the techniques developed to capitalize on TV's advantages to the student and the teacher."
"The Toronto Board of Education, Teaching Aids Department is conducting an 8mm film production workshop for 30 teachers. There are six objectives: to encourage teacher production of 8mm films peculiar to individual requirements; to promote programs of student film production; to encourage teachers to suggest ideas for 8mm single-concept films to be produced in the Teaching Aids Department; to encourage wider use of motion pictures in the classroom and, through involvement in production, a greater awareness of the effectiveness of films; to acquaint teachers with the currently available 8mm camera and projection equipment; and, finally, to develop enthusiasm among the group."
"A tape-to-film process was used by the California Speech and Hearing Association (CSHA) to produce a 35-minute black-and-white sound film which consisted of six recorded 5-minute sessions with speech-handicapped children. The film was made at minimum cost. The use of two cameras gave added versatility and the ability to do retakes almost immediately eliminated the need for film editing while providing an accurate and acceptable finished print."
"The developing nations of Africa, Asia and South America will use modern communications media to help them to catch up with other nations' intellectual and economic standards. Location and newsreel motion-picture equipment will play a big part in this work. Current designs of equipment and techniques in their use have developed in the United States and Europe over the past 60 years against a background of centuries of manufacturing experience. Will the media specialists in the developing countries accept these designs and techniques or will they need designs custom-built to their particular requirements?"
"The exposure of photographic film to a high-velocity electron beam in a demountable vacuum enclosure offers major advantages in resolution capability over conventional methods of recording video information. A model of such a demountable cathode-ray tube was designed and constructed in order to demonstrate the feasibility of such a recording device. Characteristics of this device and its method of operation are described. Results of preliminary tests are reported which effectively support the validity of the basic concepts involved in this method of recording."
"An experimental procedure for determining stress-wave action in a dynamically loaded model structure is developed. A high-speed framing camera (100,000 frames/sec), in conjunction with a high-intensity light source, is used to photo-record dynamic fringe patterns in photoviscoelastic materials. The theory of linear viscoelasticity is then used to relate fringe time histories to stress (or strain) histories. The materials used for the models exhibit linear viscoelastic behavior. Response to load is a function of rate of load application. Theoretical analysis of complex viscoelastic structures is usually difficult, and, in some cases, quite impractical. The need for a quantitative experimental technique to assess such structures clearly exists. Results of the research indicate quantitative photoviscoelastic techniques are feasible."
"Modern television studios call for more and more microphone channels. Sound-control desks have, therefore, become increasingly complex. The introduction of transistorized modules has enabled the production of compact designs giving full facilities. A typical transistorized sound-control desk is described."
"Procedures followed in the past have been inadequate for assuring an acceptable quality of sound. This paper deals particularly with the 16mm track which has greater need for sound quality control because of the narrower tolerances and the higher amount of image spread. It has been found that using a 6,000-cycle cross-modulation test gives more accurate control than the conventional 4,000-cycle signal. Commercial negative and print tolerances tend to produce some prints with unacceptable sound quality, so a simple additional control is recommended. This method uses a short, one-shot cross-modulation test on the negative and a simple cross-modulation distortion meter for analyzing the print. The meter has been designed to be economical to build, requires no power supply and can be used by operators with no special training. It indicates both amount and direction of density correction necessary to obtain optimum results. Using a single cross-modulation negative and the meter, a laboratory can improve the quality of its continuous printers and can establish the necessary print density variation from printer to printer to obtain the same cancellation."
"It is often desirable to express the performance characteristics of electronic and photographic imaging systems in the same terminology. The photographic measures — resolving power, number of perceptible gray-scale steps, granularity and others — are shown to be system properties which can be computed from basic characteristics: the intensity transfer function, sine-wave response function and the noise level. — Following a review of the quantum relations of signal and noise in a two-dimensional image, the concepts of sampling areas and equivalent passbands are introduced to compute the noise spectrum, equivalent grain size and quantum yield of the photographic process. Number and size of the grains in a sampling area are shown to be functions of exposure and amplification (development), which explains the nonlinear relation between optical density and total noise energy obtained with emulsions containing a range of grain sizes. General expressions are derived for calculating the resolving power of an imaging system for specific test objects. — Threshold signal-to-noise ratios and corresponding probabilities for visual detection of 3-bar test objects and intensity steps are determined in Part II, illustrated by numerical examples and observations. — Instrumentation and methods for photoelectric measurement of signals and noise, and in particular, the sine-wave response functions of microscopes, lenses and photographic emulsions, are discussed in Part III of the paper."
"A new color television camera, type IK-33, developed by the Nippon Television Network Corp. (NTV), Fuji Photo Optical Co., Ltd., and Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., Ltd., employs three 3-in. image-orthicon pickup tubes designed for convenience in field use. The main features of the camera chain are described, with particular emphasis on the optical system, which contains a number of improvements."
"Variable-area sound recordings made on Eastman Television Recording Film, Type 7374, can be processed on the Eastman Viscomat Processor, Model 20, in one minute. In comparison with conventional immersion-processed sound negatives, improvements in signal-to-noise ratio, frequency response and optimal negative density latitude are obtained with the viscous-layer processed Type 7374 negatives. Release prints on Eastman Fine Grain Release Positive Film, Type 7302, can be processed using the same viscous developer that is used for the sound negatives."
"By analyzing the spectral components of natural sounds such as bells, gongs, voices, etc., and then synthesizing them into constant-tone loop material, they can be used as the basis of electronic musical composition to create various moods without wandering too far away from the sounds to which present audiences have been conditioned."
"Nimbus, the second generation meteorological satellite succeeding its successful forerunner, Tiros, is a stabilized platform designed to provide global coverage of earth's cloud cover and a space platform for future atmospheric research. A three-camera TV system operating during daylight and an infrared scanner during the night store the cloud data on magnetic tape for later command readout. — This paper describes an additional camera system, designed for automatic continuous real-time picture transmission during daylight. Although it is planned for trial on a Tiros satellite in a time-restricted mode, its operation on Nimbus later will be continuous during daylight. — The camera makes use of an electrostatic storage vidicon which is exposed for 40 msec, and read out during the succeeding 200 sec. The 800-line resolution and the 0.25-sec scanning time per line are compatible with standard 240-rpm facsimile equipment which can be used for ground display. Full compatibility is achieved by amplitude modulation of a 2,400-cps subcarrier and by transmitting a turn-on and phasing signal during 8 sec preceding the actual picture transmission. The subsystem is independent of the spacecraft except for power and a frequency reference. A 5-w transmitter broadcasts the signal in the 136-mc space telemetry band. FM is used, making a large variety of standard mobile communication equipment readily adaptable. — The value of the system lies in its simplicity both in the spacecraft and on the ground. No command links are required, nor storage. On the ground, a manually tracked or even fixed 10-db helix antenna, with commercially available receiver and facsimile, is all the equipment that is required."
"The need for high scales of enlargement in narrow-film projection requires high-precision film-feed mechanisms. This paper discusses the systems used in Siemens projectors, which now permit even reverse projection."
"Significant monochrome telefilm exposure-determining factors are examined relative to exposure research literature, the basis for American and German still photography film speed standards, and typical multiplexed telecine systems. Theoretical, graphical and pictorial evidence is offered to indicate that neither the “fractional gradient criterion” nor the “fixed density above fog” concept fits the telefilm situation, due to the interjection of the telecine transfer characteristic into the chain of processes between the scene and its TV reproduction. A systems analysis method for determining telefilm exposure requirements is described, the effects of flare light are considered, and a television approach to film speed indexing is described."
"This paper, supplementing an earlier one, details a method of designing lenses by computer. Aimed at instrument designers, it passes on suggestions for selecting the starting lens, choosing the designing program, proceeding with machine designing, evaluating construction tolerances and evaluating lens resolution. It discusses boundary conditions and describes the steps taken in designing an actual successful lens."
"The discharges were performed in a coaxial flash x-ray tube (voltage = 15 kv, pressure = 10-5 to 10-6 mm Hg and inductance = 75 × 10-9 h) provided with a plane parallel electrode system. The discharge process has been studied by oscillographic recordings of any pair of the three quantities: current, its time derivative and x-ray output, inside the time interval during which the heavy current pulse (peak current about 25 ka) occurs in the discharge. The production of both single and multiple x-ray outputs of short duration (0.1 μsec or less) is discussed and seems to be caused by pinch phenomena occurring in a plasma column between the tube electrodes. Small changes in dI/dt during the pinching are interpreted as sausage instabilities which cause high local rates of increase in inductance giving a potential drop (V = I dL/dt) across each constriction of the discharge. Estimation of the accelerating voltage during the pinching showed that it could reach values almost four times as high as the applied initial capacitor voltage. In order to get the timing of the x-ray outputs under better control, a new method for discharge initiation is suggested."
"Three models of the Adastra 8mm moving-picture camera were shown at Photokina, 1963, in Cologne. These cameras are particularly suitable for amateur photography. This paper describes the special features of the Adastra system and gives the reasons for their development. These features include film-chamber reversion, sectional construction and separate assemblies, the drive mechanism and the theory underlying it and the miniature regulator."
"Editorial Note: In 1931 the CIE (Commission Internationale de l'Eclairage, or International Commission on Illumination) issued an historic set of standards on illumination and colorimetry. In the late 1940's it was becoming apparent that serious consideration needed to be given to a revision of some of the standards. Since then there has been persistent thought given to the revision of the concepts, terminology, testing procedures, etc., and from time to time some changes have been effected. The report herewith covers revisions for an international terminology."
"Crane's objective method for rating picture sharpness, SMT acutance (system modulation transfer acutance), has been applied to systems for producing small-format color prints. Although calculated sharpness values agreed well with experimental results, the way in which changes in format affected these values was unclear. A systematic investigation of the relationship between size of format and SMT acutance for original films and print films showed that changes in format were equivalent to changes in film-sharpness characteristics for the stages involved. Computational analyses of model systems are used to illustrate the usefulness of sharpness calculations in estimating the sharpness potential of a given color system. Such calculations can also aid in planning system improvements."
"When a concentrated-arc lamp replaces the conventional source on an optical printer, 8mm color internegatives printed from 16mm color originals show improved definition. The requirements and characteristics of an operational system are discussed."
"An economical system for producing quality 8mm commercial prints from 16mm reversal color originals is described. The proposed system features contact release printing on new-format film utilizing a small-diameter light source in preparation of the internegative. It is believed that this system will allow high-speed 8mm contact release printing and therefore result in reduced laboratory costs. This system is achieved by modification of typical laboratory equipment."
"Data are presented on soundtracks exposed in one, two and three layers of Eastman Color Print Film, Type 5385, and processed both with and without redevelopment of the silver. From these data, recommendations to the industry are formulated. Top-layer (magenta) dye tracks on this material prepared in a format which could be accommodated on 8mm film (0.020-in. scanned area) demonstrate that adequate sound quality for commercial purposes can be obtained."
"In September, 1963, K. D. Erhardt of National Broadcasting Co., Burbank, made preliminary tests on vidicon color television film chains which indicated that the annoying changes in color rendition between Eastman Color Print Film, Type 5385, and Technicolor 35mm (Imbibition Print) film can be minimized by including an infrared cutoff filter in the red vidicon channel."
"The specifications of the Electronic Industries Association (EIA) and the Canadian Department of Transport (DOT) for transmitter amplitude-frequency response are not written in a form easily adapted to quick interpretation by a Go-No-Go oscilloscope graticule. By using a two-step measuring process, a true Go-No-Go indication is possible. Improved graticules are suggested corresponding to slightly modified specifications well within the state of the art. These graticules permit a one-shot appreciation of the transmitter response covering both monochrome and color applications."
"The automation of the television studio equipments which should meet the severe requirements of various kinds of programs requires overcoming numerous difficulties. An automatic equipment controlled by punched-cards permits, during the studio program presentation, altering picture angle and framing and switching of picture and sound signals by a single pushbutton operation. The equipment employs the newly developed automatic remotely controlled image-orthicon studio cameras."
"Standard rear-projection process uses center-line single or superimposition projection of background plates on a translucent screen. M.G.M.'s new “laced” process uses extracted halves or thirds from a single original negative and “spread” projectors. Two or three extractions are used to make a single photographable background, the segments having been blended (laced) together. Considerable gain in quality and scope is reported with this process."
"A method for making composite motion pictures for black-and-white presentation is described. This technique, which employs the blue-screen traveling matte system, provides a greater degree of flexibility to the producer with a saving of both time and money. Historical matting processes are briefly outlined with emphasis on color separation methods."
"Ten 16mm cameras have been coupled for the synchronous photography of a 360° field. Special consideration was given to the selection of the cameras, as well as to the mechanical coupling, optical integration, structure of the assembly, and electrical controls. Some of the alternatives were influenced strongly by script and reliability considerations. Relationships between photography and projection also played a part in the rationale of the design."
"A 500-lb kit incorporates the entire field equipment for a highly mobile motion-picture group. Nine cases are sufficiently small and light to be shipped by air and easily handled by one man; yet they contain cameras, accessories and facilities for tapping power and lighting large pieces of industrial handware. Tests have led to equipment that delivers the maximum light output and flexibility possible with the available power. Using this kit, two three-man units have photographed 90% of the footage for the film program of the Atomic Energy Commission's “Atoms for Peace” Conference in Geneva."
"The aerial-image unit is a valuable tool for inserting diagrams into industrial motion pictures. The principal problems associated with such a unit are design of the field lens for minimum spherical aberration, and critical alignment of the optical train. High-quality projection lenses and large aperture are also necessary to prevent color fringing caused by the condenser system."
"Industrial animation involves specialized camera controls, because a minimum of cel-by-cel animation is used. Instead, a great deal of cyclic, scratch-off, and build-up animation is involved. An electronic control unit with parallel time-delay controls greatly simplifies these operations. The usual elaborate animation camera log is replaced with a simple cue sheet. The board includes control for an aerial-image unit with provision for multiple-framing control over power-zoom and platen drives, and a timer for frame-by-frame power drives. Visual indicator controls provide an immediate check for camera modes and conditions to minimize possible error."
"A unit editing bench serves as the basic building block for an extremely flexible industrial film-editing room. The bench, a self-contained, free-standing unit, incorporates multiple-track sound equipment, as well as most of the equipment normally desired for industrial editing. Dimensions have been chosen to create privacy and a comfortable work center. The bench incorporates a sound wall which acts as a partial room divider and lends itself ideally to solving space and location problems."
"A machine has been designed for editing 16mm film. It combines in one unit facilities for picture cutting, optical/magnetic track laying and the projection of married prints. Operating components are mounted on a single upright panel."
"For the first time since 1960 sessions of technical papers on photography and television in medicine were scheduled for the Society's Technical Conference, last October in Boston. The renewed emphasis on film, television and instrumentation techniques in medicine seemed appropriate for that Conference because Boston is one of the leading medical centers in the United States. The hope was that one short session could be organized to provide the basis from which momentum would lead to more sessions at later conferences."
"An objective quantity called “system modulation transfer (SMT) acutance” will generally predict or confirm a subjective evaluation of picture sharpness. The formula for calculating it is based on image magnifications and on the areas under experimental and proposed standard modulation transfer curves of each component in a photographic system. Values of SMT acutance for thirty color films and motion-picture film systems are tabulated; they range from 70 (passing) to 100 (excellent), each unit representing one just-perceptible difference in picture sharpness."
"More unsteadiness is experienced in pictures exposed in rotating-prism high-speed cameras than in pictures exposed in intermittent movement cameras. Film dimension standards are based on conventional motion-picture experience and films perforated over the range permitted exceed tolerable limits for high-speed work. Progress to date has been based on a cooperative effort between camera and film manufacturers but has not yet advanced to the establishment of standards for this more critical film usage. Dimensional instability of photographic materials has compounded the problem. Camera motive power, design of sprockets and spools, and “greenness” of film are also cited as factors contributing to unsteadiness."
"The application of high-speed cameras and short-duration light sources to measure pressures, forces and flow patterns in a high-velocity (up to Mach 25) short-duration (less than 15 msec) wind tunnel are described. Details of the measuring techniques are given, including the optical systems, lighting, data reduction procedures, measurement accuracies and synchronization methods."
"Representative prescriptions, together with performance evaluations, are given for six designs in a sequence developed to improve performance of an eight-element ballistic camera lens. The lens was redesigned with the LASL program, which analyzes lens performance statistically by multiple ray tracing and minimizes image defects by the least-squares method. The design giving best performance uses ordinary low-index glasses."
"A method of combining video signals for lap dissolves is described in which at every instant the larger signal is transmitted and the smaller signal is suppressed. This nonadditive method of combining signals has the advantage over the customary mixing methods of keeping the output video level constant, independent of the distribution of peak-to-peak voltages in the input signals. A secondary advantage of this method of performing dissolves is that the same equipment may be used for the generation of keyed inserts and for the production of special effects."
"An improved audio compressor-limiter system has been developed by making use of a new linear optical attenuator. The shortcomings of earlier systems are overcome by producing light instantly and in direct proportion to audio level through the use of electroluminescence. The light controls amplifier input level by means of a photoconductive cell. There is no distortion due to limiting, and the attack time for the system is 10 microseconds."
"SMPTE President Reid H. Ray has announced that the Board of Governors has approved that an Annual Meeting of the voting members of the Society be called for Monday, September 28, 1964. This Annual Meeting will be held at the Commodore Hotel, New York City, and will be held in conjunction with the 96th Semiannual Technical Conference. The Annual Meeting will be scheduled immediately following the Get-Together Luncheon."
"The Inter-Society Liaison Committee of the SMPTE has been working since mid-1961 on methods of strengthening operations of scientific societies in the field of photography. In 1963 this became definite discussion of merger among the SPIE, SPSE and SMPTE. Legal obstacles which were encountered limited formal merger possibilities to the two Societies, SPSE and SMPTE, with every hope that the members of the SPIE would find a satisfactory home in the new organization created."
"The Steady Growth of the nontheatrical film and audio-visual field which has been taking place, since World War II, continued throughout the year 1963, although at a slightly slower pace than during the previous four years."
"The results presented are from an investigation to obtain optimum picture quality in 16mm vidicon-telecine installations of the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. Picture quality is examined in terms of signal-to-noise ratio, resolution, gray-scale rendition and lag. As a consequence to the investigation, new standard values of the vidicon peak-white signal current, aperture correction and gray-scale correction are about to be introduced into CBC operations. — The telecine gray-scale characteristic is plotted together with a typical 16mm print-through characteristic. The resultant curve is shown to be similar to that of the image-orthicon camera. The measurement of the gray-scale characteristic, using the Holmes-CBC slide, is shown to be distorted by shading errors, and a new slide is introduced to minimize this problem."
"The transfer of emulsion granularity in a television system when film is the picture source is considered in some detail using the Wiener spectrum of the film-grain to describe its near-random statistical properties. The modifying effects of some basic parameters associated with television film-scanning and the subsequent processing of the generated video signal are discussed, and illustrated by numerical examples based on the measured Wiener spectra of several commonly-used black-and-white cine-film emulsions. — The differences in the character and magnitude of the granularity obtained, in the final display, due to the several methods and processes employed in the various television applications of film, are examined. Displayed granularity curves are deduced for each of four processes, by selecting appropriate emulsions and by assuming specific processing conditions considered to be representative of operational practice. — After discussing briefly several important factors associated with the visibility of the displayed granularity, an attempt is made to establish, from existing experimental evidence, realistic thresholds of perceptibility in terms of the standard deviation of luminance in the display. Finally, the probable subjective rating, on a six-point scale, of the displayed granularity is deduced for the specific examples representing the four main processes mentioned earlier."
"A theoretical research is made to find the location of recorded TV signals on transverse track video tape. Equal location will take place if the eccentricity is zero. The study also explored the qualitative and quantitative aspects of monitor image distortions in a general case, where the vacuum guide in playback is not only too far from, or close to, the head wheel, but is also higher or lower than it is in recording. Theoretically calculated distortions are in good conformance with hitherto published experimental data."
"Exact expressions for the stresses and displacements in a uniformly rotating mirror of rectangular cross section are presented in dimensionless form. Dimensionless plots of stresses and displacements are given for various ratios of mirror width to thickness, and the distorted shape of the mirror is illustrated for one specific case. It is shown that a mirror can be ground in an initial shape such that it becomes rectangular when operating at the desired speed. The technique for determining this shape is presented and the required shape is illustrated for one specific case. An expression for the curvature of the reflecting surfaces is not given but can readily be obtained using the displacement equations."
"A prefabricated acoustical window has been designed to maintain an hermetic seal and provide a chambered frame assembly. The window has a minimum certified rating of sound transmission Class 48 and will receive glass of various types and thicknesses."
"A cartridge has been designed for use in a double-8mm camera to simplify threading and eliminate the need for rethreading for the second-half run. It requires less camera power to operate and aids in obtaining sharper pictures than is usually to be expected from an 8mm camera."
"Large color transparencies are being manufactured for use in land mass simulators. Information is coded in each of three color images to permit simultaneous readout of three information channels. Factors in the selection of the color film for this unusual application are discussed. Highly specialized procedures for the printing, processing, retouching and cementing of color maps are described. Problem areas in manufacture including crosstalk, register and printed-in defects are discussed."
"A system has been developed to provide the same visual cues to a pilot in a flight trainer as he would receive when flying an actual aircraft. The system continuously computes a perspective view of simulated terrain. An optical model of the terrain is created by projecting an image of a photographic slide onto a screen. This image is converted, optically, to a perspective image which is formed on a TV camera tube such that the computed view is analoged correctly. The system is servo-controlled in two 3-dimensional axis systems."
"Current capabilities of photo-reconnaissance and surveillance techniques are neither as limited as commonly believed pre-Cuba nor as omnipotent as claimed in the lay press post-Cuba. Photo capabilities and limitations are compared with the performance potentials of other possible reconnaissance sensors, such as television, infrared and radar. Choices of sensors for specific needs are indicated, and growth possibilities are discussed."
"The characteristics, operating data and performance of a high-intensity carbon trim for the projection of 16mm film are described. The color quality, magnification, optical speed, power of the projection lamp, intensity and distribution of the screen light are discussed. Earlier papers are reviewed, and projection improvements consistent with current trends in illumination are suggested."
"Reasons are presented for the effectiveness of combining film cleaning and waxing processes and an automatic machine designed for this purpose is described. Its purpose is to extend film life, particularly that of 16mm, and to protect the negative."
"The Cinex Exposure Tester has been widely used for many years to make timing tests from black-and-white negatives. By replacing the incandescent lamp normally found in this tester with a xenon flashtube and its capacitor-discharge power supply, the resulting stable and reproducible light output has allowed the development of a superior testing machine. The exposure gate has been modified to contain a series of neutral density steps matched to the printing machine lights; for subtractive color testing, a selected range of color filters is added to the neutral densities. The resulting intensity-scale tests closely match printing machine exposure times, thereby resolving film reciprocity differences normally present in Cinex tests. — These modified units have been used for several years in black-and-white testing with 30-w-sec input to the xenon lamp. By increasing this input to 300 w-sec, the adaptation of the tester to color-scene testing was accomplished."
"A high-speed color printer for making A&B composite prints from 35mm original color negatives has been designed and constructed by Consolidated Film Industries. The printer, operating at 120 ft/min, incorporates fades and dissolves in the prints without the use of duplicate effects negatives. Scene-to-scene color and intensity changes, as well as variable length effects, are monitored by means of either a transistorized radio-frequency proximity cue detector or a notch contactor. The lamp-houses, readers and fader system are modifications of the latest Bell & Howell design, similar to those used in the B&H Additive Printers. A single light valve is employed for intensity control in this subtractive color printer; however, the lamp-houses are designed for future installation of two more light valves and dichroic mirrors, should conversion to additive color printing be desired. The printing machine is controlled by a punched paper tape which programs predetermined intensity changes and fade lengths."
"A pin-registered, lightweight, high-fidelity, magnetic sound-on-film, reflex 16mm camera has been developed by Mitchell Camera Corp. in cooperation with Radio Corp. of America over a period of three years. Designated the Mitchell SSR-16, the first production model was delivered to CBS News in January 1964. The solution of many of the problems generated by these stringent and often contradictory requirements is described."
"Two methods are given for generating clock-derived, programed, electrical pulses which are used to determine the on-and-off shuttering periods of scanned image and display devices. Actual equipment utilizing these programing methods is also illustrated, along with some applications of the use of such equipment in the evaluation of image and storage tubes."
"The Aim of providing the film producer with the highest-quality photographic soundtrack on his release prints is a continuing goal for sound recording studios, film laboratories, and equipment and film manufacturers. Many workers in these organizations have described the factors which can affect the quality of the final release soundtrack.1-5 For a number of persons in the industry a paper by Frederick G. Albin in the November 1962 Journal6 was the most stimulating because it raised the question of making a “standard” sound negative test film. This proposal has been under study by the Sound Committee and the Laboratory Practices Committee of the Society with a view toward formulating Recommended Practices and American Standards."
"A brief report, “Comments in Moscow on Motion-Picture Industry,” appeared in the December 1963 Journal, pp. 957–8. Some additional background and general information are given here before the main portion of this technical report. At the Society's Technical Conference in Los Angeles, April 12–17, 1964, an entire session will be devoted to some personal reporting of the visit, a full discussion of equipment and facilities with many color slides, and a report on Soviet color film, particularly raw stock samples and processed color negatives which were obtained on the trip. Color prints made in the United States from the Russian negatives will be projected at the Conference. The illustrations in this report are from photographs by William E. Gephart, Jr., and Ethan M. Stifle."
"The status of the Soviet cinematography industry is reviewed and its organization, techniques, equipment and projection systems are discussed. Uses of high-speed photography in scientific research and the development of processes and equipment for photography in space research and the study of nuclear processes are touched upon briefly. The technical premises for international cooperation are reviewed; and the basis for the exchange of films is viewed as one of the most serious problems faced by the engineers of many countries."
"Performance criteria on video preamplifiers for use with image-orthicon and vidicon camera tubes are formulated. Recent developments in transistors have produced units having a noise figure sufficiently good and a gain-bandwidth product sufficiently high to be useful in the design of all-solid-state TV cameras. Where the best possible signal-to-noise performance is essential, vacuum tube input circuits are still superior to transistors. A hybrid tube-transistor cascode circuit offers advantages."
"Three methods for recording properties of optical maser emissions are discussed. First, a series of 400,000-picture/sec records were made of the maser emission. Second, the polarization of a ruby optical maser was recorded with a unique high-speed photographic technique. Third, the coherence of maser emission was examined with a wavefront shearing interferometer and recorded with a conventional 35mm camera. These techniques and some initial observations that were made of maser emissions are described."
"A dry photographic system applicable to the motion-picture, television and educational film industries. Metro-Kalvar, is described. The system is based upon the phenomenon of light scattering accomplished within a film of thermoplastic resin coated upon a base of transparent polyester. This basic system of photography utilizes ultraviolet exposure and heat development. Details about its departure from traditional motion-picture print materials and procedures are outlined. Developmental tests and equipment are discussed."
"Since 1952, a striping process devised by the author has been used in the Iran-film Studios for dubbing into Persian, a practice that is very popular in Iran. An Iranian patent was granted the author in 1953. The process is simple and economical. The machine can be put together using only these components: six to eight 16mm rollers (or 35mm rollers, depending on the work to be done); a plate on which these rollers can be mounted; an arm to hold the tape spool; a small container to hold the cementing liquid; and a guide roller to guide the tape into the cementing liquid and onto the film."
"This Program is as complete and accurate as was possible at press time. It may contain errors, and some changes and additions are expected before the Final Program is printed for the Conference. For example, the process of clearance, required for certain papers, may result in unforeseen delays prior to final scheduling. If very brief Conference attendance has to be planned to hear only one session, or a specific paper or papers, members are advised to inquire the week before the Technical Conference by telephoning the Society Headquarters in New York (212 TN 7-5410) or Program Chairman John M. Waner at Eastman Kodak Co. in Hollywood (213 Hollywood 9-3101)."
"(1.1) Specification — This practice specifies a photographic method of recording and measuring high-speed motion-picture image unsteadiness. (1.2) Image-steadiness methods — Existing image-steadiness methods are applicable to professional motion-picture cameras showing vertical image-steadiness accuracy within 0.0004 in (see annex A). (1.3) Application — The procedure for measuring image unsteadiness, described in this practice, is far more practical for high-speed, rotating-prism motion-picture cameras usually showing unsteadiness characteristics greater than 0.0004 in."
"This Standard is intended as a guide for the industry in the determination and presentation of test data and ratings of magnetic amplifiers. While these Standards are intended niainly for self-saturating linear and/or bistable magnetic amplifiers, appropriate items may be applied to simple saturable reactor circuits. It is not the intent of this Standard to require a certain fixed number of ratings or tests for the complete specification of a particular amplifier; rather it is the intent to standardize the most common ratings and tests so that when they are applied by the equipment manufacturer or by the user, the significance of the rating or test will always he the same."
"The following constitutes a revision of IEEE No.170 (53 IRE ll.Sl), \"Standards on Modulation Systems: Definitions of Terms, 1953.\" It is not intended to cover the subject matter of Information Theory which is contained in IEEE No.171 (58 IRE ll.Sl ), IRE Standards on Information Theory: Definitions of Terms, 1958.Nevertheless, a few borderline terms, such as Coding and Nyquist Rate, have been included in the list. This merely reflects the fact that the two Standards define terms in adjoining areas of subject matter.The definitions given in this Standard are intended to reflect the latest usage and also toimprove the clarity and precision. Terms such as Capture Effect have been newly added, whileterms no longer in use, such as Two-Source Frequency Keying, have been deleted."
"These Standards apply to shuntand series-connected capacitor units on alternating-current power transmission and distribution systems, at nominal frequencies of 60 cycles per second or below, for the purpose of modifying the performance of the circuits at normal frequency."
"The standard presents a list of 39 terms commonly seen in the study of radio transmitters, together with their meanings."
"This standard covers the following: electrical requirements for outdoor power apparatus bushings having basic impulse insulation levels 110 through 1300 kilovolts. Mechanical requirements for the outdoor power apparatus bushings; dimensions of the outdoor power transformer and alternating-current power circuit breaker apparatus bushings. This standard does not apply to bushings for indoor apparatus, dry type instrument transformers, air-blast transformers, dry type regulators, oil-less and oil-poor apparatus, roof, floor, wall and generator bushings, potheads, distribution type circuit breakers and back-connected switch insulators. Bushing requirements as set forth in this standard apply to bushings when mounted for testing, according to requirements outlined in the paper."
"The evolution of technology and the advancement of communications have resulted in an increased awareness of energy bursts. Such bursts which interfere with desired signals are properly classified as noise. In the transmission of information, for example, signals which have low redundancy are highly vulnerable to burst interference. In acoustics, audible sound of the impulsive type is an increasingly important problem because of the annoyance it may cause; moreover, high-intensity solid-borne energy of an impulsive character sometimes produces structural failures. While quantities of relatively short time duration are of widespread interest, little is known about the statistics of these quantities insofar as peak amplitudes, repetition rates and wave shapes are concerned. In view of the increasingly important role played by energy bursts in modern technology, accepted procedures for identifying and characterizing burst-like events should be established. Obviously, no single method of measurement will satisfy all requirements equally well. The techniques described here are based on a set of definitions which have been chosen to be easily adaptable to many engineering applications."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Presents the copyright information for the conference. May include reprint permission information."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The following topics are dealt with: program management; instrumentation and measurement techniques; prediction techniques; slide rule EMC analysis; and preventive techniques."
"Science is creating a new world of technical side-effects. It is these side-effect s which often are of concern to management, as well as to their technical staffs, as they contain legal, labor, insurance and health complications which can become very expensive and time consuming. With new sources of electromagnetic and electrostatic energy now often exceeding natural and man-made tolerances, the side-effects of this energy should be closely examined by management for protection of its personnel, investment and public safety."
"This paper is based on seven years experience in the field of EMO. The author gained his experience as an EMC engineer, not a manager. Major projects he has been associated with include the B-58 bomber, the Polaris missile and the guidance system for the Minuteman missile. None of these programs was guilty of all the errors .mentioned in this paper. Rather, each of them had certain good points which have been - combined to form the ideal EMC program described. The author feels that an EMC control team is merely a specialized design team. Its members are people who specialize in some of the less glamorous, more easily overlooked aspects of systems engineering. It is staffed with people, not supermen, and it must have help from management if it is to function most efficiently. If management is serious about having an EMC control program, it must provide this help. The EMC control team must have the status and authority normally associated with design responsibility. If management is not willing to provide the proper authority, then management must accept the responsibility for ineffective EMC control. If management does provide the proper funding, schedule and authority, it should receive something more than the obsolete \"test and fix\" type of program. The author believes that it is possible to describe good EMI design in quantitative as well as qualitative language. The author also covers several of the more often overlooked EMC control tasks."
"The role of management in an electromagnetic interference/compatibility program may be summed up in two words, \"direction\" and \"support\". To these we may add many adjectives to describe the various areas and levels of direction and support. Similarly, we must expand upon the term management itself and upon its responsibilities in an interference compatibility program, or in the effective functioning of an interference group or department."
"A new development. the NMC 1040 Microwave Frequency Converter. has been designed to expand the capabilities of the Stoddart Radio Frequency Interference Measuring Equipment to include the 10 gc to 40 gc frequency spectrum. This instrument. with its simplified automatic operation. makes testing for electromagnetic compatibility easy and practical. Measurement to MIL-STD-826 was one of the prime requirements of the NMC 1040. which was designed to be used in conjunction with the Stoddart NM-62A RFI Measuring Equipment which complies with MIL-STD-826 for measurement in the 1 to 10 gc range. The NMC 1040 brings the same automatic recording features to the 10 to 40 gc range that the NM-62A pioneered in the 1 to 10 gc range. The complete unit is contained in a single highly shielded case suitable for rack mounting. Three tuning ranges are used. with a convenient front panel selector or automatic switching between tuners. The automatic bandswitching and sector scanning used in conjunction with an X-Y plotter alows the complete 10 to 40 gc spectrum or any part of it to be surveyed and all interference in the spectrum recorded on a permanent record. Use of the NMC 1040 sweep tuning mode and sector sweep in conjunction with any oscilloscope permits a panoramic display of any complete tuning band or any part of it. This new instrument will allow the fast. accurate measurements necessary to ensure electromagnetic compatibility in the 10 to 40 gc frequency spectrum."
"The techniques and instrumentation utilized by the National Bureau of Standards to calibrate field strength meters and interlaboratory transfer standards in terms of absolute rms cw field strength at frequencies from 10 kHz to 1000 MHz are described. Present services do not include broadband calibrations. Two general techniques of calibrating antennas are discussed: (I) The Standard-Field Method; (2) The Standard-Antenna Method; the use of each being dependent upon the type of antenna being calibrated and the frequency. The standard-field method is used to calibrate loop antennas from 10 kHz to 30 MHz, and the standard-antenna method is used to calibrate half-wave dipole antennas from 30 to 1000 MHz. The instrumentation used to calibrate the field strength receiver characteristics is illustrated; these measurements include the calibration of the signal attenuators, calibration of the overall linearity of the receiver, and calibration of the receiver as a two-terminal rf voltmeter."
"The paper reviews the broad field of EMC Instrumentation as it has evolved today, and attempts to outline the equipment which will be required to meet the fast growing needs of present and future systems. The functional requirements are reviewed, and key performance characteristics outlined in terms of measurement instrument parameters. In some cases, the performance characteristics require very significant improvement. This would be considered normal were it not for the simultaneous great increase required in degree of automation and operating speed, or data rate. The resulting dichotomy is unusually sharp and requires careful planning."
"This is an extension of the Bridged-T infinite rejection network idea transformed into microwave concepts. These devices achieve approximately 100 db of attenuation with skirt attenuations approximately 5 db. The tuning range between 1 KMc and 10 KMc is continuously covered with 4 units at present. Work is continuing to reduce the number of units to 2. Design parameters, performance curves, and application to MIL-STD 826 will be discussed."
"A 200-foot pneumaticaIly operated, portabIe plastic tower has been constructed to permit measurement of radiated signals and also to permit the radiation of r-f signals for overall susceptibility measurements. The electronic package contained at the top of the tower is semiautomated and is controlled from a console o n the ground. Cable losses have been eliminated by locating all r-f circuitry at the antennas on top of the tower. This system was designed for making MIL-ST0-449 type measurements on operational radars. The system, its operation and the data analysis methods will be discussed."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Interference Analyzer, Model EMC-lO , has been designed by Fairchild Electro-Metrics to fill the growing need for accelerated RFI/EMC measurements in the range 20 CPS to SO KC . A s a secondary function, the instrument is designed to operate as a full fledged \"wave analyzer\"."
"A simple portable device is described that allows spurious noise transient waveforms to be easily observed or recorded. The device reduces the instrumentation necessary when trouble-shooting problems in the Ground Electronic Equipment of complex Missile Systems. The device was successfully used on the Minuteman Missile System and the numerous uses found for the device during the course of problem investigations are described."
"One of the initial objectives o f the spectrum signature program was to determine the degree and relationship of variations between spectrum signatures of individual equipments within a type. At the present time this objective cannot be met since current state-of-the-art measurement techniques and equipment are questionable."
"This paper illustrate some fundamental instrumentation and measurement terms and the vague or misleading manner in which they are frequently used. For example, the subject of accuracy is shown in four different common uses and interpretations. Misuse of the\" accuracy term is also illustrated in describing the performance of receiver linearity and dynamic range, the synthesis of recorder requirements and specifications. and the development of uncertainties in instrumentation and measurement. The damage results in either incorrect or poor decisions based on erroneous data, or wanton waste of dollars and effort by developing the wrong data, or both. Several examples are set forth on how a better technological communication can be effected. Some new instrumentation and measurement techniques recommended for use by the Electromagnetic Compatibility Community are presented. Regarding new instruments or updating of existing instruments, some examples described include statistical signal level detectors, peak-signal vs frequency plotting units, antenna pattern intercept platforms and equipments, and multi-channel crystal-video receivers with RF preamplification, peak detection and hold, and output sampling for X-Y plotting over 9 decades. Many of the EMC instrumentation techniques are borrowed from the EMW and ELINT Communities. Regarding measurement techniques, shielded enclosure attenuation. antenna pattern measurements using the sun as a signal generator and the conduct of electromagnetic site surveys are reviewed. Clearly. this paper covers only a few of a number of new opportunities awaiting EMC Community action."
"This paper is based on a recent study-in-depth of the current radar situation in the United States. It is intended here to define, on the basis of' the data offered by this study radar's contribution to the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) environment of today and for the next decade. It will be shown that the current maximum in radar power output, about 200 megawatts peak, is constrained by a number of technological factors to remain quite static throughout this period what will increase, and in rapid fashion, is the actual number of' these high powered radiators."
"Summary form only given. The interference prediction model is a major tool in the effort to obtain electromagnetic compatibility in the crowded radio frequency spectrum. Work has progressed in the prediction modeling of the transmitter, antenna, propagation, and receiver, but additional expressions for the degrading effect of interference upon information output to the operator are required to complete the analysis. The paper introduces an analytical approach to Obtaining a quantitative prediction of the interference degradation to a radar PPI display. Determining the signal output from the receiving system due to environment has been accomplished by various approaches and is reported on elsewhere. For the purpose of this investigation, a description of the receiver output in terms of the pulse density distribution by received power level i s assumed. The task remaining and the subject of the study performed, is the relationship between the pulse signal distribution input to the display and the resulting interference to the PPI. The transfer characteristic of the Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) when excited with pulse signals is utilized to determine the relationship of input pulse power level to light output on the display. The proportionality of the display spot intensity to the logarithm of pulse power is thereby established. where intensity is defined in photometric terms and means total light output from a source. It is important in this case to define intensity. to distinguish between it and \"brightness\" or \"luminance\" which are intensity per unit area. The CRT response to pulse exc itation. whereby the luminance levels off while the intensity continues to increase with higher amplitude pulses. makes this distinction necessary. The overall display intensity in the case of random pulse interference will be the cumulative intensity of the individual pulse excitations. In the report. the relative scope interference level is logically related to the clutter intensity resulting from the pulse interference signals. At this point the means for expressing PPI interference due to a pulse signal environment in a relative sense has been established. To make the concept useful, relative levels must be tied to a normal usage frame of reference. To accomplish this, photographs of operating PPl' s in a n RFI environment were classified by comparison with the five conditions o f PPI interference employed by the Air Force in their routine interference reporting regulation. Measured data on the pulse signal enviromnent producing the PPI interference were utilized to compute the relative Interference Index according to the analytical relationships derived. The range of index values in each condition category then established the correspondence of interfering signals to resulting PPI condition. Scope conditions, computed from measured data on the pulse signal environment, agreed with photographs of the PPI in 64% of the available sam.ples and did not differ by more than one scope condition in any of the samples. A second comparison, wherein the pulse signal conditions input to the PPI were first predicted from knowledge of the operating environment, produced nearly comparable re sults. Determination by laboratory simulation means of the relationship between scope condition and degradation of detection range appears as a logical extension of this study."
"Environmental synthesiS is defined as a procedure by which an electromagnetic environment (including equipment types, numbers and deployments) is generated, based on partial information. There i s a need for such syntheses since complete information in both current and future time periods will never be available. Another requirement arises when excessive computer time is a significant factor."
"In problems dealing with electromagnetic interference it is of major importance to determine the frequency spectrum of energy sources. It i s usually preferable to obtain this type of information by means of measurements. However, it is very often not feasible to make these measurements. Thus, it becomes necessary for the EM! analyst to base his predictions on emission spectra obtained by theoretical methods. Although classical formulas are available to calculate emission spectra, they are usually more complicated and detailed in nature than is required for the problem at hand. This article presents spectrum equations for three basic types of Ilodulation: ( 1 ) Amplitude Ilodulation by speech; (2) A conventional radar pulse; and (3) A pulse compression radar pulse."
"A new approach to the problem of measuring conducted radio-frequency interference is described. An instrument has been developed which has the capability of measuring the impedance levels and noise currents of a power line or cord which is to be tested for conducted interference. This instrument works in conjunction with two current probes operating between 20 kc to 2 mc . The outstanding features of this instrument are, first its simplicity of operation in that the impedance magnitude and phase angle of the line are presented automatically on panel meters, and secondly the completeness with which the conducted RFI may be measured. Either the noise-source impedance or the load impedance or both may be determined easily with this instrument. The RFI currents may be measured in a conventional manner. Knowing the impedance levels of the line under test and the RFI currents which pass through them enables one to specify completely in terms of the fundamental units of power the RFI characteristics of the line under test. An evaluation of the hardware developed is presented as well as numerous examples of RFI measurements showing the correlation between measured and predicted results."
"Present day MIL-E - 6051 C testing requirements for spacecraft and missile contracts necessitate the use o f more sophisticated methods for evaluating the effect of system noise on ordnance circuits and devices. This requirement and the associated problems have been investigated and the major design considerations for developing a stray energy detector are presented. The two types of ordnance devices i n general use today are exploding bridgewire and hot bridge wire. To detonate the exploding bridgewire device, a high energy electrical impulse (i.e., capacitor discharge) causes the bridgewire to vaporize into the surrounding propellant, exploding it directly. The hot bridgewire device is detonated by applying several amperes to the bridgewire, which in turn heats to the critical temperature of the primer charge. The ignited primer charge then causes the main propellant to explode. This paper is confined to the stray energy detection associated with hot bridgewire ordnance circuits. The investigation has shown that the basic instrumentation problem i s one of detecting, the heat energy absorbed by the bridgewire. A statistical method is presented whereby one can determine the averase firing time, threshold firing time, and the 6 db safety margin firing time. The 6 db safety margin for an ordnance device is defined herein a s that level 6 db below the statistical \"no fire\" energy level. The R.F. response of the ordnance device is discussed and data showing the input impedance for a typical device is presented."
"This paper describes a broadband multichannel transient monitoring system being studied by the Stoddart Aircraft Radio Company, Inc. It points out the need for improved instrumentation for measuring transients. and outlines a practical design approach suggested by Stoddart engineers. In a broad sense the term \"Transient\" refers to voltage or current disturbances produced during the period that a circuit changes from one steady electrical stat to another. Such disturbances often constitute a source of radio frequency interference (RFI). Transient interference can exist as a Single. non-recurring impulse made up of numerous fundamental components and their related harmonics. Or. the term can also be applied to interference caused by periodic waveforms having a low repetition rate. Sources of possible transient interference can be broadly categorized as (a) circuits or components in the equipment under test, (b) other nearby equipment. and ( c) electrical devices at the measurement site. Transients are normaly measured as broadband interference by searching a broad frequency spectrum with a tuned receiver to obtain an amplitude versus frequency plot. The main disadvantage of measuring transients with a tuned receiver is that non-recurring transients may escape detection. This happens whenever transients occur at frequencies which differ from those the receiver may be scanning at a particular moment. Another disadvantage is that the receiver can check only one circuit at a time. It would be helpful in trying to locate sources of transient interference to know when such interference occurs.. and on how many different circuits of the equipment under test. This can be determined only by measuring the amplitude versus time characteristics of the interference and by doing this on many circuits simultaneously. What is most needed toda.y for measuring transient interference is multichannel instrumentation capable of correlating time versus events data on each circuit under test. Once it is known that transient interferenceexists on certlPo circuits at specific times. amplitude versus frequency measurements can be taken on those circuits with a tuned receiver. A practical approach toward the design of a broadband .. multichannel transient monitoring system is presently under study by Stoddart engineers. The approach is simple and straightforward .. yet it satisfies the need for instrumentation intended specificaly for measuring transient interference. A simplified block diagram of the system is shown in Figure 1. Basically the system consists of thirty-six identical instrumentation channels and a test panel which is common to all the channels. The channels are physically arranged in three groups. with twelve channels in each group."
"One of the major Instrumentation requirements in the field of EMC measurement and analysis Is an Improved broadband signal source. A great many of the required measurements must be made over a wide range of frequencies, and are extremely time-consuming and cumbersome because of the lack of such a source . At present, such measurements are made by use of a CW signal which must be tuned over the required frequency range - or worse, multiple CW signals which must be tuned In an exact mutual relationship over the frequency range. When measurements also Involve a receiver or field Intensity meter, both signal generator and receiver must be tuned accurately t.o each frequency of measurement. The difficulties of making such measurements generally result. In a reduction of the number of frequencies at. which they are made-with a consequent. Increase In the likelihood of missing critical frequencies which are the major reason for performing the measurements."
"This paper describes and evaluates six methods for predicting RF induced current in a typical ordnance circuit found in airplanes, missiles, or space vehicles. The calculations here were based on an incident RF field of 100 watts per square meter at 2 megacycles."
"In a complex digital electronic system the susceptibility, with respect to interference, of the individual switching circuits govern the integrated system susceptibility. Therefore, during the initial Switching circuit design the relationship between circuit susceptibility and the following three factors should be thoroughly examined: Switching speed; Switching pulse amplitude; and the location of the threshold region with respect to the switching pulse amplitude. A switching circuit should never be designed to switch any faster than necessary because of the proportionate increase in circuit susceptibility with respect to switching speed. It is obvious that a fast switching circuit will respond to a much wider bandwidth than a slow switching circuit, consequently the fast switching circuit becomes more of a potential problem area. Switching pulse amplitude, which affects switching speed and the amount of cross coupling, should be set at an optimum value determined by the expected level of ambient interference. A small amplitude switching pulse which is desirable for minimum cross coupling, normally does not allow sufficient margin for interference rejection. A large amplitude switching pulse which allows sufficient interference rejection margins also produces excessive cross coupling. Therefore, the optimum solution must be a compromise. The last, and perhaps the most important factor is the respective magnitudes of the interference rejection margins on either side of the threshold region. The bias controlled threshold shift technique presents an easy method for determining the respective magnitudes of the margins for interference rejection. This would be a valuable design technique for very complex system which result in many interference coupling paths that are not apparent until the system is completed. The scope of the paper will primarily deal with individual circuits and will not consider shielding or grounding techniques."
"A common method for the control of electromagnetic interference 15 the use of filter networks. These are generally simple, low-pass devices comprising one, two, or three reactive elements. The primary design requirement for such a filter is that it must provide some minimum amount of insertion loss throughout a certain range of frequencies (the \"stop\" band). The problem is (1) to determine the values of the circuit elements required to provide the desired amount of insertion loss at the lowest frequency in the stop band, and (2) to select components of the proper physical design to insure that the insertion loss requirement at the higher frequencies in the stop band is achieved. The former portion of the problem fields to an elegant mathematical treatment, and constitutes the subject of this paper. Design equations for simple low-pass filters are found in various texts and handbooks. It would appear that the design of EMI filters is simply a matter of finding the applicable equations and solving for the element values required. Unfortunately this approach frequently will not work in practice. The handbook equations were developed primarily for communications applications where current and voltage levels are relatively low. EMI filters are often subjected to current or voltage levels which make the element values determined by the handbook equations impractically large. One would prefer to use a different set of element values and still obtain the desired amount of insertion loss at frequencies above cutoff. This is possible; however, the equations which describe the insertion loss response of such modified or \"non-ideal\" filters are not available in any readily useable form. This paper provides the filter designer with a set of nomographs which enables him to immediately arrive at the insertion loss characteristic for any one, two, or three element electromagnetic interference filter. Conversely, the element values required to produce a desired amount of insertion loss at any given frequency can be quickly and accurately determined. Design information available in handbooks and texts is discussed, and the limitations and drawbacks of the familiar methods are considered. General equations for the insertion loss of one, two, and three element filters are presented. From these general equations, expressions for cutoff frequency, damping ratio, and element values are developed. Ideal damping is defined, and the effect of non-ideal damping is examined. Based on the equations, a set of nine nomographs (the Craig Charts) is presented. Detailed instructions for the use of the charts are provided, along with illustrative examples. Actual insertion loss curves for several real filters are presented and compared with the results predicted from the Craig Charts."
"This paper presents a technique for establishing known, high intensity EP fields suitable for testing the susceptibility of electronic equipment to these fiel.ds. The technique overcomes a def1ciency in tests for radiated susceptibility wh1ch are required by military specifications, such as MIL-l.0266oo. Such tests fail to use field intensities that are representative of the environments in which electronic equipment will be installed. It is becoming more important not only to use realistic field strengths, but to know these field strengths to a fair degree of accuracy. 1'he system designer will have more assurance of system compatib1l1ty if components ba.ve been tested to meet the requirements of the installation environment. A significant amount of time and money can be saved if susceptibility problems are recognized and solved prior to equipment installation."
"This paper has been developed from a program created by the U.S. Naval Civil Engineering laboratory and supported by the Bureau of Yards and Docks to establish the specifications and architectural drawings of large, permanent electromagnetically shielded structures. The frequency range of interest extends from 14 kc to 10 kmc. A problem statement initiates the effort which i s then segregated into three phases. Phase one is a literature survey to establish all accurate information possible on the problem. Phase II is a measurement program establishing answers to questionable areas of Phase I. Phase III develops the specifications and architectural drawings."
"After review of some general properties of RF absorber materials, several o f the standard and semistandard techniques for measuring absorber and anechoic chamber quality are discussed. A general purpose RFI laboratory is described together with a. simple technique for evaluating the performance of absorber material as it is actually used. An effective background reflectivity of about 4% from 1 - 10 Gc was measured and is believed to be adequate for many applications."
"It has been suggested that hills, earth walls, excavated pits, or some other such obstacle might be used to shield ground-terminal antennas of satelliteto-ground communication links from radiated interference propagating at low angles (troposcatter, groundwave,etc.). Such pits would be most useful for synchronous satellite systems, but they might be applicable for other systems. This paper presents measured isolation provided by three representative pits at two frequencies (2.3 and 9.0 Go) in the band presentiy proposed for communication satellite systems (1-10 Gc). One pit had a vertical wall, one a sloping wall, and the third a rounded sloping wall. Isolation of 40 db appears feasible, and possibly more could be achieved with specialy designed pit walls."
"The actual effectiveness of a transmitter harmonic filter, when inserted in the transmission line to the antenna, can vary over a wide range which extends both above and below the standard characteristic-impedance circuit insertion-loss values. The location in this range varies with interconnecting transmission line lengths. An example discussed here shows that the actual Insertion loss of a 60 db filter could be anywhere between 10 db and 94 db. Furthermore, the transmitter harmonic power delivered to an antenna, in the absence of a filter, can also vary with the length of the interconnecting transmission line. These effects are produced by changes in mismatch loss which occur as the length of interconnecting transmission line is varied. The purpose of this paper is to show how to determine the range of variation of such effects. Included are some sample calculations and the results of limited experimental tests."
"This paper deals with Lockheed Engineering Flight Test experience in the preparation of electromagnetic compatibility test plans on F-104G(MAP) and other later model F-104 aircraft. Literal interpretation of MIL-E-605lC as applied to test plan requirements for various types of electronic and electrical systems is covered in the text. Specifically, the establishment of malfunction criteria for several types of systems including electronic, aynchro-type, optical, radar, and pyro-technics are expanded upon. Problems in test plan development encountered for each individual system type are discussed, including how the most critical interference point in a particular system is determined; how a \"malfunction\" is determined; and how the test plan is prepared from the established information. Lockheed believes that the resulting interference test plans were some of the most comprehensive ever written for a modern fighter aircraft. Many useful ideas for EMC test plan preparation may be drawn from the information presented."
"This new Capehart development is operated between the interference measuring unit; for example, the NF-105 and either an X-Y recorder or a strip-chart recorder or an oscilloscope. The charts are prepared such that calibrations are included in the spec limits and the frequencies are marked to track with the particular interference measuring unit in use. Consequently, when the band is swept, all the recordings are direct indications of whether the equipment under test passed the interference Mil-Spec and at what precise frequencies it was out of spec. A log amplifier within the Capehart Spectrum Amplitude Recording Set enables approximately 60 to 70 db of measured interference amplitudes to be recorded on the Single chart. The time for recording is designed for approximately 1 band per minute. This method results in increasing the speed of interference measurements ."
"In recent years the great increase in power output capabilities of microwave emitters, and the development of new very narrow beam antenna systems, have created potentially dangerous microwave radiation levels. The Department of the Navy and other agencies have made studies to determine the injurious mechanism of microwave radiation and to establish safe dosage limits. -The maximum continuous exposure level for personnel has been defined as 1 0 milliwatts per square centimeter. However, in the case of intermittent exposure, an integrated dosage of 10 milliwatts per square centimeter over a 30 second period, or 300 millijoules per square centimeter is the maximum safe dosage according to recent Navy Instructions."
"This paper is a report on a problem which is thought to have rather general interest in the field of radar and communications systems. This is the problem of interference caused by the reflection of pulsed radar signals from the terrain iii the transmitter-receiver environs. This problem has proved to be rather intractable to handle analytically and therefore the empirical approach presented in this paper might be of special interest to those who have tried some analytic approach. Basically the problem to which this paper addresses itself is as follows: Suppose it is desired to predict the number of pulses and their power levels, arriving at an unintended receiver from a radar transmitter. The task of predicting the direct pulses is difficult, but can be approached analytically; however, what can be done about predicting those pulses reflected from the terrain (or other objects) in the vicinity, especially when no detailed terrain information is available? During the study from which this paper arose, measured data was obtained at several selected sites in the San Diego area by tuning a test receiver to one of the identified, operating radar transmitters at a time. The number of pulses and their 'Power levels were measured by the test equipment and recorded. This procedure was reported for several different transmitters at three test sites. At the same time, a computer program (called MSS-l) has been developed to predict the number of direct pulses and their power ievels."
"The optimum frequency band for satellite communication systems is generally· agreed to be between 1 and 10 Gc. Frequencies in this band are, however, already allocated. One solution to this spectrum occupancy problem is frequency sharing, and one of the systems in this band with which a satellite system might have to coexist is the TD-2 microwave radio relay system (3.7-4. 2 Gc). This paper presents the measured radiation characteristics of several representative TD-2 transmitting terminals. Both ground and airborne measurements are discussed. It is concluded that, subject to some precautions, back and side-lobe patterns measured in the horizontal plane on an antenna range with ground effects minimized can be used to predict radiation in the vertical plane from these same antennas placed over actual ground. Such a technique, of course, presupposes that the antenna of interest has been properly designed to somewhat suppress side and back lobes."
"With proper instrumentation, it is possible to determine the · power radiated in any direction from near field measurements. The method is of greatest value for sources of unknown character where the relation between the E and H fields is not known. The technique uses a combined set of measurements of the electric field and the magnetic field. The product of the measured electric field intensity, the magnetic field intensity and the time phase angle between the two is sufficient to determine the magnitude of the Poynting vector in the direction of incidence. The device, consisting of an electric and a magnetic sensor with associated instrumentation, is thus given the name \"Poynting Sensor\" . Previous work at the Moore School has verified the inverse square law relation for power in the near field. This paper is concerned with the polar pattern of the Poynting sensor. It is shown that near field measurements of the Poynting vector display the same variation with the cosine of sensor orientation that would be expected in the far field. Theoretical and experimental results for an electric source (dipole) and a magnetic source (loop) are presented. The paper also includes a discussion of instrumentation for obtaining the product I EII H I cos φEH. The major difficulty is the experimental determination of the time phase angle, φEH which is the sine qua non of the Poynting Sensor technique. The near field of a source includes large reactive components representing stored energy in the vicinity of the source. The presence of these terms makes power measurements in the near field based on electric or magnetic intensity alone worthless. However, the reactive terms are not in time phase with each other and therefore, do not contribute to the measured power."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The following topics are dealt with: instrumentation and measurements; dielectric constants; dipole moments; dielectric relaxation times; molecular and ionic interactions; conduction phenomena; dielectric solids; ferroelectric and piezoelectric materials; high polymeric materials; inorganic dielectrics; insulating films; and dielectrics breakdown."
"This chapter reviews general considerations on measurements, instrumentation, and electronics. Electromagnetic theory and analysis, standard measurements on inductance, resistance, voltage, current, attenuation and phase impedance, dielectric and insulation are also discussed."
"This year's tables provide a continuation from last year's without any break in coverage. As in the past, Chemical Abstracts was the sole source of references. All papers found in the 1964 volumes were included in these tables, irrespective of their actual date of publication. Only papers dealing with dielectric measurements on pure materials were covered and ones dealing exclusively with mixtures, radiation damaged or doped materials, or resistivity measurements were excluded."
"This chapter covers the following topics: molecular and ionic interactions in dielectrics; polarisability and optical refraction; dipole moments; dielectric dispersion and loss; static dielectric constants; dielectric properties of surfaces and sorbed molecules; electrets and electrical conductance."
"This chapter covers list of papers dealing with photoconduction, space-charge effects, and polaron phenomena in dielectric solid materials; particularly, elemental inorganic materials, oxide semiconductors, halides, titanates, ferrites, glasses, hydrocarbons, phthalocyanines, charge transfer complexes and ion radical salts, and polymers."
"The most prominent feature of this year's literature is the continuing proliferation of papers on optical aspects of piezoelectric crystals for use with coherent light sources. The newest interests are the use of perovskite crystals such as KTN above their Curie point as Kerr-effect modulators (Geusic and co-workers, Appl. Phys. Letters 4, 141-3, 1964), and the application of KTN or KDP in digital light-deflection arrangements (seven papers). Many measurements of second harmonic generation were also made, including two from crystals which are opaque to incident radiation of the second harmonic wavelength. All these papers, while they concern piezoelectric and ferroelectric materials, are somewhat peripheral to the main interests of piezoelectricity and ferroelectricity. With the field growing so rapidly, it may be appropriate in future years to cover the optics separately."
"Chemical Abstracts was used in the compilation of these references. Our review of high polymer dielectrics will depart from the review of last year in the subject matter covered, format, and grouping of references. Patents have been excluded from this review, but those applicable to this chapter can be easily found in Chemical Abstracts. The references have been grouped according to the physical properties investigated and we have categorized the 1964 literature on high polymer dielectrics into the following areas: Theoretical Papers; Relaxation Phenomena; Dipole Moments and Polymer Structure; Semiconducting Polymers; Biopolymers; Effects of Radiation; and Technology."
"This chapter presents list of literatures on inorganic dielectrics; particularly, single crystals, ceramics, glasses and thin films. Properties covered include: permittivity, dielectric losses, and dielectric breakdown."
"Principal interest in the practical application of insulation in 1964, in the United States, was in the area of Extra High Voltage power transmission, at line-to-line voltages of 500 kv. This posed problems in air gap strengths, insulator flashover voltages, radio interference levels, and switching surge stresses. Much of the work involved in tackling these problems was reported in the literature."
"The references presented in this chapter are concerned with the electrical properties of organic film or fiber insulation. The literature search was based largely on Chemical Abstracts and Science Abstracts. Other sources of relevant information included the 1964 Conference on Electrical Insulation, NAS-NRC; Conference of Dielectric and Insulating Materials (London: IEE, 1964); and the magazine Insulation which provided both original articles and abstracts of the European literature."
"As in previous years there has been much activity in the field of electrical breakdown during 1964. In the section dealing with gas breakdown, work pertaining to phenomena outside the normal range of gas discharges has not been included. Thus, high energy ionization processes and plasma physics are not included, although in some cases the discharges required to form the plasma are of interest. Several important books relating to gas breakdown have been published. Physics of Atomic Collisions by Hasted contains a good account of atomic collisions and other phenomena associated with the study of ionized gases. The appearance of Raether's book Electron Avalanches and Breakdown in Gases will be welcome to all who are working directly in this field or are only interested in a general way. In this volume is contained a summary of the theoretical and experimental work on single electron avalanches as well as the processes leading to a succession of avalanches, and ultimately to breakdown. Much of this material has not been published in English before. The various techniques for observing the development of avalanches are considered in detail; and the results obtained for diffusion coefficients, carrier statistics, electron and ion drift velocities, ionization, and attachment coefficients from these measurements are given. Space charge effects in avalanches of high carrier density are of particular interest. The generation of successions of avalanches resulting from photon and ionic secondary mechanisms is then considered, and the development of a discharge through either the Townsend or streamer mechanism is discussed in detail. A chapter is devoted to applications such as spark chambers and counters; and finally in an appendix, the theories of the transient current build-up are described."
