"The essentially magnetic multiplexing system described uses saturable inductors and diodes interconnected so that sending and receiving ends of the information link operate as synchronous switches slaved to the ac line. The switching rate is proportional to the number of channels desired. The information may be encoded singly, simultaneously or serially; or in combination, simultaneously or serially; provided the pilot devices remain energized for at least one cycle of the ac supply voltage."
"Thin coatings of cobalt, cobalt-nickel, and cobalt-phosphorous have been in use for some years as a medium in recording drums. Recent papers [1]-[3] have described the recording properties of chemical- and electro-deposits on flexible plastic bases for in-contact digital tape recording. TheBHloop squareness and high coercivities achievable in films of a few microinches thickness makes them particularly suitable for high packing density storage. This paper describes the preparation and recording properties of vacuum-deposited cobalt films of varying thickness and coercivity. Comparisons made with oxide tapes show that a marked improvement in packing density is achievable. Correlations between pulse width and amplitude with thickness and magnetic properties throw some light on the mechanism of pulse recording."
"Analysis of magnetic modulators, which includes low-level transducer amplifiers and magnetometers, usually is based on control-signal displacement of fixed hysteresis loops of some particular shape. Experience shows, however, that many qualitative aspects of the device operation do not agree with the analysis. In this paper, an analysis is based on thed\\phi/dtwidening of the hysteresis loop, which is applicable to metal alloy tape cores. The analysis makes possible the comparison of amplifiers using different magnetic materials by relating small-signal gain and output waveform to measurable properties of the material."
"A theoretical and experimental analysis has been made of the geometrical and magnetic factors affecting the sensitivity of the ring-core magnetometer first introduced by Geyger in 1961. Using a drive-to-pickup transfer function derived from an assumed dynamic hysteresis loop and a given dc input signal, the second-harmonic output voltage was derived for both current-source and voltage-source driving conditions. Results of the analysis, which were confirmed by experiment, show the following. 1) When a single, diametrically wound (solenoid-type) pickup winding is used with a ring-core sensor, simultaneous minimization of both fundamental and second-harmonic feedthrough can be achieved by a simple rotational adjustment. This optimization is possible only with a circular core. 2) Sensitivity can be increased by increasing frequency, number of pickup turns, dynamic differential permeability, cross-sectional area, and effective sensor length, and by decreasing the dc initial permeability (μ0). 3) The dominant factor affecting the sensitivity is the demagnetizing term\\mu_{0}K = \\mu_{0}l^{-1.72} (4A/\\pi)^{0.86}, which determines the entrance attenuation of the dc signal to be measured. Highest sensitivity is obtained when\\mu_{0}Kis small, which requires a low initial permeability, since a large dimensional ratiol/A^{1/2}is usually not attainable. When the demagnetizing term is not small, the sensitivity advantages of the other factors are negated by the input signal attenuation. Power considerations show that increasing sensitivity by raising area, length, or frequency results in increased power consumption. However, increasing sensitivity by using a pickup coil with a larger number of turns or by a sensor core with lower initial permeability can be achieved without additional power."
"This paper presents a unified approach to a broad class of solid-state devices, encompassing conductive-type, magnetic, and dielectric devices. The main features of the class of devices under consideration are emphasized, and among them the irreversibility is distinguished as arising from both the character of physical processes involved and the mechanics of the operation. The generalized \"dynamic charge\" concept is introduced, and the charge control approach is developed. An illustrational analysis of representative types of devices has been carried out, including the majority-type insulated gate transistor, the single-core magnetic amplifier, and the ferroelectric amplifier-transpolarizer. Intrinsic parameters of the devices are derived, and the central role of the \"charge transducing\" function of the gate is emphasized. The most important concepts and parameters of the charge control approach are summarized and tabulated for all three types of devices considered."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Bistable and bistate operation of the magnetic amplifier is jointly approached. The expressions are obtained for the response time of the bistable magnetic amplifier with additional electric and magnetic feedback. The analysis which is carried out here is based on the charge control approach, recently applied by this author to the case of the linear operation of magnetic amplifiers."
"The rotational switching process is analyzed on the basis of this author's equation of motion, in which the damping term is directly related to magnetic diffusion aftereffect. Some experimental results are presented which are pertinent to temperature characteristics of material parameters for Mn-Mg-Zn ferrite. Calculations of the damping factor in the Gilbert equation are made, starting from experimental data for displacement model of magnetization. A discussion is carried out on the validity of displacement and rotational models of magnetization."
"The switching properties of small, rectangular areas of thin ferromagnetic films, relevant to their utilization as memory elements in digital computers, are discussed. An attempt is made to derive the switching properties theoretically by superposition of the calculated demagnetizing field effects upon the known intrinsic film properties. Experiments performed using homogeneous quasi-static applied fields show good agreement with the theory. In the case of high easy direction applied fields the complexity of the magnetization distributions necessitates a number of simplifying assumptions in the theoretical treatment, and here the agreement is poorer. The treatment is sufficiently accurate to yield relationships between the intrinsic film properties, the dimension of the element, and the available output flux. In practical configurations the element is switched by inhomogeneous fields produced by fast current pulses in strip lines, and its state is ascertained by the observation of an EMF induced by the rotating magnetization. The differences between the configuration observed here and the practical one are discussed."
"Recent interest in crossed-film cryotron circuits for combined logic and memory applications has prompted a detailed investigation of their switching characteristics. Experimental measurements show that the switching characteristics depend markedly on current level, driving pulse shape, interaction of successive circuit stages, and operating temperature. For example, increasing the current from 10 to 50 percent above the minimum required for operation, reduced switching delay from about 100 to less than 10 ns. This improvement in switching behavior is explained. Also, in a three-stage flip-flop circuit, decreasing the current in the second stage increased the switching time of the first and third as well as the switching time of the second stage. This investigation indicates that in most crossed-film cryotron circuit applications, switching delays other than circuit time constants can be largely eliminated if adequate current tolerances can be maintained."
"A thin magnetic film NDRO storage cell has been developed for very high-speed word-organized memories. The storage cell contains two 500-Å, 15-mil-square Permalloy film elements with a read and sense line between them. One film element is deposited on a metallic ground plane, so that the read line and its image in the ground plane are coupled to the readout film and decoupled from the storage film. A 3-ns-wide 300-mA read pulse with a 1-ns rise time yields a 4- to 6-mV output signal. Two methods of coincident current writing were investigated. One with the word and digit lines outside the storage cell required 500-mA word current, 80-mA digit current, and a read after write pulse. Writing takes 50 ns and the storage cell will tolerate coincident word and digit disturb currents of 50 and 100 mA, respectively. The other method uses the read and sense lines between the films as word and digit lines. Word currents of 300 mA and digit currents of 50 mA are required to write. The disturb margins are greater, and read after write pulse is not required. Because the eddy currents in the ground plane must decay, writing takes 3 μs. A 512-word, 40-digit test plane has been built and partially populated to determine problems in building a large array. The characteristic impedances and effects of attenuation and delay have been observed. In particular, the output signals are reduced one half because of attenuation and the difference in signal propagation time in the two directions on the sense line."
"Diode laser action has been obtained at 8.5μ with PbSe. This laser is of potential interest for terrestrial communications since its emission is in the 8-to-14-μ atmospheric window, a spectral region of high atmospheric transparency where attenuation due to scattering by haze is low. Fabrication techniques are described which are based on controlling carrier type and concentration by adjusting the Pb:Se ratio. Below threshold for laser action, the emission exhibits two spectral peaks, one near 8.5μ which increases superlinearly with current and another near 10.1μ which increases slowly with current. Laser action associated with the 8.5μ peak is observed above a threshold Current density of 2000 A cm-2. From measurements which did not resolve the cavity mode structure, the emission peak was found to shift to higher energies in a [100] oriented magnetic field at the rate of7.1 \\times 10^{-8}eV per gauss, or 17 Mc/s per gauss. This is the expected shift if the emission is associated with band-to-band transitions. The threshold current decreased to a fraction of its zero field value in a magnetic field of approximately 10 kilogauss, then increased slowly with higher fields."
"The effects of mode-coupling in a gas laser resulting from a time-varying loss within the optical cavity or from the non-linear characteristics of the inverted population are investigated both theoretically and experimentally. The dominant effect resulting from this mode-coupling is that the laser operates as a pulse regenerative oscillator which produces a periodic train of subnanosecond width pulses. The exact repetition frequency is determined by the frequency of the time-varying loss, which must always be set close to a multiple ofc/2L, i.e., the axial mode spacing, to produce sufficient coupling. To produce pulsing without a time-varying loss, it is necessary that theQor loss of the cavity be judiciously adjusted. In this case the repetition frequency is very close to the axial mode spacing. A preliminary experimental investigation has verified the salient features of the analysis. The measured widths of the pulses from a 6328 Å He-Ne laser and from a 4880 Å Argon-Ion laser were 0.5 and 0.25 ns, respectively."
"Narrow-band quantum counters with less than unit internal quantum efficiency are analyzed. The pump power dependent expressions for the transient and steady-state quantum efficiencies are derived. These quanties are discussed for \"typical\" trivalent and divalent rare-earth-doped insulator crystals, and the performance of two specific systems is presented. It is shown that to achieve high quantum efficiency in trivalent rare-earth-doped quantum counter systems, the pump source must be highly nonblackbody in spectral character, i.e., a laser, and resonant with the transition between the relevant excited states. Performance limiting factors for laser-pumped quantum counters are pointed out."
"Two types of photomultipliers exhibiting flat base-band response to ∼4 Gc/s are described. One photomultiplier employs crossed electric and magnetic fields, the other is purely electrostatic. At present both devices consist of eight Cu-Be secondary emission stages and an internally situated, opaque-backed S-1 photocathode. Current gain exceeds 105, and the transit time dispersion is less than7 \\times 10^{-11}s. Frequency response measurements have used heterodyning between the modes of the Zeeman-split Doppler profiles of a 6328 Å He-Ne laser, and also shot noise in the current from a steadily illuminated photocathode as sources of microwave modulated currents. Transient response measurements have been made using sub-nanosecond light pulses from phase-locked He-Ne and argon ion lasers, the results being consistent with the measured frequency response. A calculation of the frequency response to be expected fromnidentical stages of secondary emission when only the secondary electron emission velocities contribute to electron transit time differences, as is true of the geometries used in the experiments, gives results in agreement with experiment, assuming a value of 3 eV for the most probable secondary electron emission energy from BeO. This value is consistent with direct observations by others."
"The development of coherent light sources has made possible new optical radar systems in which target information should be determined with a far greater accuracy than would be possible with a conventional microwave radar system. However, the same factors which make the improved resolution possible impose difficult requirements on the optical receiver. Presently available image detectors have very limited frequency response and are not suitable for use in a Doppler or ranging system. This paper describes the design and experimental evaluation of an image detector with an instantaneous bandwidth of 4 Gc/s. This photodetector is capable of providing simultaneous target velocity and target position information when the Doppler shifted frequency is in the range of 0 to 4 Gc/s. The device consists of an image dissector electron gun and a traveling-wave output coupler. The scanning of an optical field of view for microwave-modulated light signals was demonstrated experimentally by a direct modulation-demodulation experiment with a modulation frequency of 10.7 Gc/s."
"This paper describes a model and provides the mathematical formulation for describing the spike pulsing phenomenon observed in optically pumped three-level lasers. The model is based on the pumping of electrons from a ground state to an excited pump band from which they relax very rapidly to the excited laser level. With population inversion then achieved, laser action starts and repetitive pulses with decreasing amplitude are generated; the pulses then damp out and the laser output reaches a steady state as long as sufficient pump radiation energy is available. The equations describing the system in terms of the population inversion and photon density are nonlinear. However, approximations are made which permit the required relations between the transition rates to be established for such action to progress. The time variation of the population inversion and the photon density at the laser frequency are obtained for both the pumping time interval and the stimulated emission laser region."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The problem of energy exchange between two electro-magnetic modes of different frequencies and an acoustic mode is formulated and solved. The results of the quantum mechanical analysis are also analyzed in classical terms and are found to be consistent with the theory for parametric interactions. Specific cases treated include: parametric amplification of light, stimulated Brillouin scattering, and frequency conversion."
"The frequency separation between transverse modes of a ruby laser is measured using a Fabry-Perot interferometer and a high-speed camera. The results are compared with the theoretical predictions based on the curved-reflector theory. Satisfactory agreement is obtained. The measurements are verified by studying the output of the laser after application of transverse mode selection. The mode selection technique is based on the control of the reflector size, and results in single-transverse-mode operation at high pumping levels. Time dependence of the longitudinal mode spectrum of a single-transverse mode laser is studied. Particularly orderly mode-hopping sequences from shorter to longer wavelengths are observed. The spectrum of a relatively high-output laser which shows regular pulsations is similarly examined. The spectrum shows some interesting features, which include a near continuum during regular pulsations and repetitive shifts of the high intensity portion of the spectrum from short to long wavelengths."
"A brief review of the history of laser oscillation in gaseous ions is given, including a tabulation of wavelengths, classifications, and references for the 230 reported ion laser transitions. Selection rules and excitation mechanisms yielding oscillation are discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theory of mode selective multireflector Fabry-Perot laser resonators is developed, and a practical design problem to achieve the maximum discrimination against unwanted modes is solved. The laser resonators under consideration are expressed entirely in terms of an equivalent electric Circuit and treated mathematically on the basis of classical circuit theory. The expression determining both the oscillation frequencies and the minimum gain required to maintain steady oscillations are derived. The effects of mirror spacing and reflectivities on mode selectivity are shown. A numerical example shows that a helium-neon gas laser consisting of a four-reflector resonator can exhibit an appreciable suppression of spurious oscillations in all unwanted axial modes by suitable choice of parameters."
"We have introduced longitudinal mode selection into a giant pulse laser to obtain single mode output from the laser. Some advantages of achieving longitudinal mode control in a giant pulse laser are noted. The methods of mode control used are described. These include orienting various reflecting surfaces in the laser cavity, cooling the ruby laser crystal, and introduction of a saturable dye in the cavity. Methods of measuring the mode structure are given. Results of these measurements with varying degrees of mode control are described in detail. Under some conditions it is possible to obtain essentially single mode behavior from the giant pulse laser."
"Beats between modes of a ruby laser at frequencies more than twice the mode separation observed by purely optical techniques have been detected by photodiodes. It is demonstrated that the photodiode system was operating linearly when detecting these beats, thus removing the possibility of harmonic generation in the detection process. The observed beats are believed to arise from subthreshold or enhanced spontaneous emission modes that exist outside the oscillating linewidth."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Ruby exhibits the Zeeman effect in the energy levels responsible for the absorption of the R1line. When a ruby laser is directed to pass through a section of unexcited ruby rod, the intensity of the transmitted beam is strongly dependent upon the magnetic field applied to the absorber. This effect was used to modulate the amplitude of a pulsed ruby laser in the microwave frequency region. The experimental modulator consisted of a 0.2- inch long ruby absorber located at one end of anS-band TE111mode cylindrical cavity pumped by a 3.2-Gc/s microwave source. A dc bias magnetic field was also applied to the absorber. When both the laser and the absorber rods were cooled to 80°K, the modulated beam attained maximum modulation index with a bias field of 2.5 kOe. This and other experimental results agree well with calculations made from theoretical analysis of this modulation technique, and indicate that the various known relaxation mechanisms in the spin system of ruby do not impose a frequency limit to this method of modulation."
"Amplification at 3.508 μ in pure xenon dc-excited discharges has been measured over a wide range of gas pressures and for several discharge diameters. For pressures greater than 10 mTorr, the unsaturated gain increases monotonically as the pressure decreases. Gain varies inversely as the radius for large bore (radius ≥ 3.5 mm) amplifers, but a complicated, pressure-dependent variation between gain and discharge diameter was observed in amplifiers of less than 3-mm diameter. Gain saturation occurs at low Signal levels and results in small output powers from conventional xenon lasers."
"The NEPλand response time of the Pr3+:LaCl3Infra-red Quantum Counter have been measured for the wavelengths 1.48 μ, 1.58 μ, 2.03 μ and 2.33 μ at the nominal temperatures of 300°K, 77°K, and 4.2°K. The experimental arrangement is described and suggestions for improvement are made. The best results obtained are anNEP_{2.03_\\mu} = 2 \\times 10^{-5}watts(c/s)^{-1/2}and a temperature independent response time of 20-30 ms."
"In the stimulated Brillouin scattering of an intense laser beam, a forward-traveling coherent acoustic wave and a backward-traveling electromagnetic wave are produced. This interaction is studied from the coupled mode approach and shown to be describable as a parametric interaction. An inherent instability of this particular interaction is discussed. Frequencies of the interacting waves are calculated for quartz and cadmium sulfide. The non-linearity is shown to be due to the electrostrictive and photoelastic properties of the medium. By expressing the coupling coefficient as a tensor of rank four, selection rules for the interaction in isotropic and certain anisotropic media are derived. Finally the experimental approach for detection of the acoustic wave is discussed."
"The development of a traveling-wave maser (TWM) with an iron-doped rutile active crystal and a meander line slow-wave circuit is described. This maser exhibited high-quality performance over a frequency range of 5.4 to 5.9 Gc. Iron-doped rutile exhibited a fast recovery time from saturation signals (3.5 ms). Inversion ratios of 10 to 1 were obtained with conventional microwave pumping techniques and a two-pump technique provided ratios of 13 to 1. This maser has been operated with a superconducting magnet."
"When pulse operated, all injection lasers show a laser line shift which is linear with time during the pulse length. This is evident for time-resolved spectra obtained by a scanning technique. The data present time-resolved spectra for pulse-operated gallium arsenide laser diodes. At high peak current values, joule heating results and the time-resolved laser spectra are seen to shift to longer wavelengths. A line-shift coefficient is defined for which the units are angstroms per (ampere)2per microsecond. For high peak current and long pulse length, the laser lines may shift one hundred angstroms or more."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The interaction between an electromagnetic (em) pulse and a maser medium is described by a general set of five equations, under the assumption of a homogeneously broadened electric-dipole transition with two Bloch relaxation times T2and T1and of a linear broadband loss mechanism. When the equations are specialized at resonance, their solutions include the results of the previous treatments on the amplifier problem obtained under particular assumptions. The steady-state pulse (S. S. P.) introduced by Wittke and Warter forT_{2}/T_{1} = 0is here generalized forT_{2}/T_{1} \\neq 0and it is shown to propagate at the same velocity of the light in the medium. In the caseT_{2}/T_{1} = 0the steady state is described by exact analytical relations. For times short in comparison to the relaxation times, a solution is given which generalizes the usual interaction formula between an em field and a two-level system by introducing propagation effects. In the general case out of resonance, it is shown that an S. S. P. exists, and that its frequency coincides with the frequency of the atomic transition, independent of the frequency of the input field."
"This bibliography of 561 references was compiled during the period from January through June, 1965. The references are divided into 25 subject categories and listed chronologically. Brief annotations are added to many references."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"The interaction between a strong traveling microwave signal and an optical beam in an electro-optic material is described in the limit of very high microwave dielectric constant. The interaction produces effects analogous to those produced by a moving diffraction grating. When the optical beam is wider than the wavelength of the microwave signal, the first grating order is resolved from the zero-order or main beam. Under this condition two types of devices become possible: 1) a beam deflector which can position an optical maser beam on, for example, 105distinct points with negligible crosstalk and with address times of order 10-7s, 2) a baseband light intensity modulator which is founded on the fact that light deflected into the first-order beam by the microwave signal is removed from the main beam. The amount deflected into the first-order beam is proportional to the microwave power; the intensity modulation follows the microwave envelope. The power required for a given modulation depth is inversely proportional to the seven halfs power of the dielectric Constant. As an example, for a not unrealistic choice of dielectric constant of 104, complete transfer from the zero-order to the first-order beam requires 5 watts of microwave power. The interaction length is of order one centimeter and the interaction bandwidth is essentially unlimited. As a baseband modulator the maximum instantaneous bandwidth is of order 10 percent of the subcarrier frequency. Experimental verification is provided in an earlier paper [1]."
"The problems associated with the construction of continuous-duty dc excited ion lasers are indicated. Two solutions to the thermal dissipation and ion bombardment problem which have been experimentally tested and appear promising are described. These involve the use of axial magnetic fields with high current, low pressure, constricted arcs in large bore tubing and the use of metal-walled discharge vessels. The influence of an axial magnetic field on the properties of an ion laser is discussed, and the optical power levels which have been obtained are given."
"For a three layer dielectric sandwich, the center dielectric region must have a dielectric constant higher than the outer regions and some finite thickness for a wave to be \"bound\" to the center region. We have calculated the transverse propagation constants for even TE modes when the dielectric sandwich is unsymmetrical. The resultant field distributions are used to derive a formula for the gain of a junction laser of the form\\alpha = \\frac{\\alpha_{1} + P\\alpha_{3}/nR + f\\alpha_{2}}{g}, where the αn's are the attenuation (or gain) constants associated with the various regions of the junction structure. Curves ofP/nR,f, andgas a function of active region thickness are given from which the condition for laser oscillation or the net gain or loss per unit length of a given device may be found."
"Quantum mechanical and classical descriptions of microwave interaction with energetic electrons near cyclotron resonance which underlie the gain mechanism in the electron cyclotron maser are reviewed. Experimental studies designed to test the theory are discussed. A perturbation calculation is given which includes systematically the effects of RF electric and magnetic forces and finite transit time for electrons in the TE011cavity used in the experiments. Nonlinear extensions of the theory which lead to estimates of the saturation level of this maser are discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"The paper presents a detailed analysis of FM laser oscillation which includes the effect of arbitrary atomic lineshape, saturation, and mode pulling. Such oscillation is achieved by means of an intracavity phase perturbation, and is a parametric oscillation wherein the laser modes oscillate with FM phases and nearly Bessel function amplitudes. One principal idea is that of the competition between different FM oscillations. The effect of the intracavity phase perturbation is to associate a set of sidebands with each of the previously free-running laser modes. While the free-running laser modes experienced their gain from essentially independent atomic populations, the competing FM oscillations to a large extent see the same atomic population; and in cases of interest the strongest of these oscillations is able to quench the competing weaker oscillations and establish the desired steady state condition. Results of the analysis include the following: threshold and power output, amplitudes and phases of all sidebands, frequency pulling of the entire oscillation, time domain behavior, distortion, super-mode conversion efficiency, and effect of mirror motion. Results of numerical application of the theory to a number of specific cases are given."
"Results are reported on the detailed measurements of the operating characteristics of an He-Ne FM laser oscillating at 6328Å. Experiments were performed in both the \"phase-locked\" and the \"FM\" regions of operation, with particular emphasis on the FM region. In the phase-locked region, the pulsed output of the FM laser was observed and studied. In the FM region, measurements were made to study the laser power output, modulation index, and distortion (deviation from an ideal FM signal) as functions of the amplitude and frequency of the applied phase perturbation. Most of these experiments were performed under conditions of low laser excess gain (relatively few modes above threshold for the free-running laser); however, the results are useful for predicting the behavior of FM laser operation with larger excess gain. In addition to describing the practical operation of an FM laser, these experiments provide a check on the applicability of the FM laser theory of Harris and McDuff. An exact quantitative comparison between theory and experiment was not attempted, but the qualitative agreement is very good."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The dc-excited argon ion laser in an optical ring resonator has been found to oscillate spontaneously in one circulatory direction, for all but a relatively narrow range of gain levels above threshold. Near threshold the TW oscillations occur in the direction opposite that of the ionic drift motion, whereas at high excitation levels they can occur in either direction. The direction of TW oscillations at any level can be controlled or switched, either by means of an external mirror or a weakly resonant loss element which can be tuned to favor either direction. The tendency of the ion ring laser to oscillate in a single direction s attributed in part to the Doppler shift associated with the ion drift velocity, and chiefly to its large natural linewidth. Hole widths burnt in the gain-velocity profile, which are significant in mode competition, usually exceeded the mode spacing of the resonator by large margins. Physical arguments have been advanced to show that, when such large hole widths prevail, and spatial cross-relaxation depends only on ion motions, only running waves can oscillate in a ring resonator, and moreover they will all oscillate in the same direction. Close to threshold, the preferred direction for TW oscillations corresponds to that for which the gain profile is Doppler-shifted to longer wavelengths, possibly because of slightly smaller scattering losses."
"The output spectra of an A+ laser in its λ 4879.90 Å transition has been observed at various levels above threshold, in a ring resonator, a two-mirror resonator of the same longitudinal mode spacing (107 Mc/s), and another two-mirror resonator of about three times that mode spacing. Oscillations were restricted to the fundamental (Gaussian) mode. The A+ laser spectra display three novel features, hitherto unobserved in the oscillation spectra of neutral-gas lasers [17], which appear to stem, at least in part, from its large natural line width: 1) At moderate levels above threshold, the spectra are extraordinarily stable, and usually characterized by gaps of many mode spacings between oscillations. 2) Above a critical level, oscillations occur in random sequence at all resonances, with violent amplitude fluctuations at each frequency. 3) The time-average envelope of the unstable \"multimode\" oscillations exhibits three well-defined maxima, which give way to a single maximum at a higher excitation level. The line shift of the laser transition has been measured to within about 10 percent, by comparing oscillation frequencies at the center of symmetrical spectra in the two counter-circulating waves of the ring laser."
"Stokes radiation, excited by a giant pulse radiation propagating along a rectangular wavegulde, is analyzed in this paper. Equations are established and solved for an arbitrary shape of the giant pulse. At high gains the stimulated radiation is emitted at all angles. The maximum output is almost perpendicular to the exciting beam, and it decreases as the forward and backward directions are approached. Forward-backward ratios are sensitive to the detailed shape and magnitude of the laser pulse. The large forward-backward ratio for intense short laser pulses accounts for the observed results, which are illustrated for a square and a parabolic pulse. In practice, a large number of waveguide modes are simultaneously excited, resulting in intense excitation of vibrational modes in the medium, and enhancement of the inverse Raman effect and of anti-Stokes generation."
"Absorption cross sections of Cr3+in the metastable2E states of pink ruby (0.05 percent Cr2O3) have been measured forE \\perp Cbetween 4000 Å and 7000 Å at 297°K and 115°K. Both 0 degree and 90 degree ruby rods were measured in a flash absorption apparatus having a spectral resolution of 50 Å. The broad excited state absorption bands centered at 5600 Å appear to correlate with the positions of2T1(3T1) level, while the narrow band centered at 4540 Å correlates well with the predicted2A2(1E) level. The effect of excited state absorption on laser operation is discussed in this paper."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In this paper we develop the nonlinear Maxwell equations that describe the coupling of the quantum mechanical Heisenberg representation electromagnetic field operator to the excitations of a uniform many-particle system. It is assumed that these excitations can be treated as harmonic, in the sense that one can neglect correlations between them. We give an iterative method for solving these equations appropriate when one or more strong beams are incident on the plasma and produce weaker scattered radiation. Applying the lowest iteration to the optical mixing of two beams by a plasma, we find a result in agreement with that of Kroll, Ron, and Rostoker. We then solve for the scattering of one light beam by another in a plasma, a process proposed by DuBois and Gilinsky, and by Platzman, Tzoar, and Buchsbaum, and find a result far too small to be observed. Finally, we study the stimulated Raman scattering from an electron plasma and find that, although it would be difficult to observe with present technology, it is the most likely of these effects to be observed in plasmas in the near future."
"Absolute measurements of the electron energy spectrum in a helium-neon mixture and in pure neon and xenon have been obtained by an energy analysis of a sample of electrons extracted through a small hole in the anode. The spectrum appears to be nearly Maxwellian for the lower pressures but deviates markedly from a Maxwellian at higher pressures. At higher pressures, the energetic part of the spectrum drops off faster, and one can describe this part by a Maxwellian of lower temperature than that for the bulk of the distribution. The average energies agree with those obtained from microwave measurements of the radiation temperature of the electrons if corrections are made for nonthermal distribution. Several production rates are computed with the help of the measured spectra, and they are related to the wall current, the power dissipation, and the possible electron depopulation of helium metastables. The production and destruction rates for the different parts of the energy spectrum have been formulated mathematically. A theoretical formula, which describes the actual spectra, has been derived for the faster part of the spectrum. For the helium-neon laser discharge we can say definitely that the de-excitation of helium metastables by electrons is negligible."
"Direct modulation of gas lasers such as internal modulation, coupling modulation, and phase locking, has been investigated in a 6328 Å He-Ne laser containing a composite modulation element with small insertion loss. It was verified theoretically and experimentally concerning internal modulation that the bandwidth of gas lasers for small perturbation of resonator loss decreases with an increase of resonator loss contrary to the passive circuit case and depends on the dynamicQof the gas laser as an active tuned circuit rather than the resonatorQ. The measured bandwidth of 6328 Å He-Ne lasers was about 1 Mc/s. Coupling modulation has a flat frequency response above the bandwidth of gas lasers except in the vicinity of harmonics ofc/2L. Forced phase locking by the frequencyc/2Lis necessary to realize the stable low noise operation of gas lasers. The modulation method simultaneously using the composite modulation element as coupling modulation element and phase-locking element assures a signal transmission of good quality in optical communications."
"The problem of obtaining single-frequency output from a long laser is considered, and two methods are investigated experimentally. The first method consists of using an external filter to select one of a number of oscillating modes. The second method consists of suppressing internally the unwanted resonances so that the laser oscillation can only take place at a single frequency. It is shown that with the second method one can in many cases obtain greater power, and experiments are reported in which single-frequency output power of 15 mW was obtained from a 6328 Å He-Ne laser, A simple feedback circuit is described for stabilizing the frequency of the laser oscillation."
"The state of the art in the field of frequency stabilization of gas lasers is surveyed. A brief discussion of the methods employed to determine the frequency stability of lasers is followed by a listing of the principle causes of frequency instability. The close relationship existing between the control system design and the laser environment is pointed out. Stabilization techniques based on the use of atomic resonance and on the use of interferometers are discussed in detail. Many of these techniques are capable of achieving long-term frequency stabilities of one part in 109or better, which appears to be entirely adequate for most systems applications."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Experimental results from a number of small ruby lasers show a linear relationship between the pump power and the inverse of the time delay between pump flash and the onset of laser oscillation. These experimental results are quantitatively predicted by a simple rate-equation analysis, yielding a single theoretical curve with no adjustable parameters and in good agreement with the experiments. Additional evidence is also presented verifying the onset at higher pump powers of additional \"bouncing-ball\" or \"light-pipe\" modes of oscillation in ruby rods with polished side walls. These additional modes account, in particular, for the abrupt cessation of laser output after an anomalously short duration of laser action, as is typically observed in such rods. These anomalous modes, which are usually not well coupled to the detection circuitry, apparently suppress the normal mode of oscillation once they begin and limit the available output energy in the normal mode. The anomalous modes are eliminated by roughening the sides of the rod, after which normal duration of laser action is observed. The laser stopping time is also predicted with reasonable accuracy by the rate-equation analysis."
"The boundary value problem for wave propagation on a cylindrical anisotropic rod has been solved for hybrid modes, i.e., those having angular dependence. Solutions for the rod radius, normalized by the free space wavelength, as a function of the phase velocity, are presented for various values of the transverse and longitudinal dielectric constants. When the rod is terminated by conducting end plates, a highQmicrowave resonator results. The electric and magnetic energies stored in the rod have been calculated, as has the cavityQ. Experimental resonant frequencies for various modes in anX-band cavity using a ruby laser rod are compared with theory."
"Interest in the intensity probability distribution and phonon-counting distribution for the ideal of two independent laser modes beating together has recently developed, and there is good reason to believe that interest will also develop in further ideal cases such as the silmsoidally amplitude-modulated signal. "
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"The spontaneous emission noise properties of a pair of pulsed ruby laser amplifiers have been studied. Absorption and scattering loss measurements coupled with gain measurements as a function of pump time gave a measure of the inversion attained in the amplifiers. The high inversions reached enabled the authors to overcome the inherent noisiness of a 3-level system by having N2considerably larger than(m_{2}/m_{1}) N_{1}. Total spontaneous emission power was measured at gain saturation for each amplifier. Comparison of the observed with the theoretically expected spontaneous noise power gave good agreement."
"The inverted population in a cavity maser has spatial dependence, produced by standing waves in the cavity, if the maser material is of the order of the cavity dimensions. It is shown that higher order mode operation of a maser, in which many nodes exist in the signal and pump fields, does not appreciably degrade the small-signal performance and, in fact, improves the saturation behavior of the maser amplifier. However, higher pump powers are required. A dielectric cavity maser (DCM), composed of a ruby rod separating two metal end plates, is described which exploits this phenomenon. Both the strength of the maser action, as measured by the paramagnetic filling factor and the saturation behavior of the device have been calculated and measured. When operated as anX-band amplifier, pumped at 35 Gc/s, gain bandwidth products up to 141 Mc/s have been observed. Power outputs greater than 0.1 mW have been measured using the DCM as an amplifier or an oscillator. Improvement in the saturation behavior of ∼20 dB compared to other masers is reported."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The so-called image quantities of a two-port network are often found useful when treating power flow and input impedance under different load conditions. The formal analogy between a symmetric reciprocal two-port network and a uniform transmission line is here extended to unsymmetric networks by means of a wave-symmetric transmission line model. If the network is nonreciprocal it can be decomposed into a reciprocal part cascaded with an antireciprocal transition having simple impedance and power transfer properties. It is further shown that by adding reactances in series with a two-port network its image impedances can be made either real or imaginary. The so reactively modified network has an image attentuation that directly determines the maximum power efficiency of the original network."
"A sampling scheme is considered in which a binary process with statistically independent axis-crossing intervals is sampled according to a given logic by a Poisson pulse process, thereby producing a new binary process. The results derived supplement the results of a previous paper on the sampling of a binary process by a random pulse process. The probability density of the time interval between successive zeros of the resulting binary process is derived, and it is shown how higher-order time interval statistics may be obtained. As an example, a periodic binary process is sampled by a Poisson pulse process, and it is shown that the first-order time interval density function of the resultant process is multimodal, which under certain limiting conditions becomes a symmetric density function."
"A frequency-domain stability criterion is presented for networks containing linear, but not necessarily lumped, timeinvariant elements and an arbitrary finite number of linear timevarying capacitors. The criterion is applicable whether or not the capacitors vary periodically. In order to indicate the character of the result, consider the special but important case in which a passive lumped constant RLC network is terminated with a single time-varying capacitor with capacitancec(t). We say that the overall network is stable if (and only if) for an arbitrary set of initial conditions att = 0, the voltage across the time-varying element both approaches zero ast\\rightarrow \\inftyand is square-integrable on(0,\\infty). LetZ(s)denote the driving-point impedance faced by the time-varying capacitor, and letmandMdenote positive constants such thatm < Mandm \\leq [c(t)]^{-1}\\leq Mfort \\geq 0. Then, assuming thatZ(0)is finite and that Z(s) is not a reactance function, it is proved that the overall network is stable if for all real\\omega,j\\omega Z(j\\omega)takes on values outside the circle of radius(M - m)centered in the complexplane at[-(m + M), 0]."
"The stability criterion of linear four-terminal networks is given in a compact form similar to the activity criterion. The reduction of the Llewellyn criterion [2] to this new form is presented. By means of the stability and activity criteria in their compact form, an activity-stability diagram is derived, which is shown to be useful in the analysis of nonreciprocal networks, indicating stability, activity and nonreciprocity, and in the field of synthesis of nonreciprocal, passive and active networks. The new insight that is gained, indicates a novel way of achieving nonreciprocal stable amplification, using reciprocal active elements such as tunnel diodes and varactor diodes"
"An n-terminal electrical network is specified by a double-centered equicofactor admittance matrix, which represents the current vector as a rankn - 1linear transformation of the voltage vector. Several dual impedance descriptions are given in terms of baseset matrices and generalized inverses. The main result is the introduction of a unique general network inverse."
"Let\\etabe a linear, time-invariant, lumped two-port driven at its port 1 by a voltage source e. and loaded at its port 2 by a variable capacitorC. The values of C are restricted byC_{m}\\leq \\leq C_{m}, whereC_{M}andC_{m}, are given positive constants. Given this inequality constraint onC, any initial state of\\eta, a time interval[0, T], and a performance criterion\\phiit is shown that the law of variation of C as a function of time which maximizes the value taken by\\phiat the state at timeTis bang-bang, i.e.,C(\\cdot)is piecewise constant and takes only the valuesC_{m}andC_{M}. A subsidiary result as well as some interpretations are also given."
"The reconstruction of a random waveform from finite data presents an interesting statistical problem, especially if practical constraints are imposed on the method of reconstruction. Consideration is given to the merits of Lagrange polynomial interpolation; RC filtering; linear, least-squares time-varying interpolation; and linear, least-squares, time-invariant interpolation. Numerical results for random waveforms having various correlation functions are presented. From these results a quantitative comparison of the merits of each of the interpolation procedures can be made. From a theoretical point of view one set of mathematical results is new, namely, those results associated with the optimum, linear, time-invariant interpolation of a finite number of samples. The analysis of this problem is complicated by the combination of the constraints of time invariance (i.e., the same interpolatory function is used for each sample) and a finite number of samples. Removal of either constraint makes the problem simpler and leads one to known results."
"The paper deals with purely electrical realizations of the network element, the Gyrator, at low frequencies. It discusses the utilization of Hall effect in semiconductors and the properties of nonreciprocal devices based on this effect. A systematic study of the Hall plate, the best that can be expected from it and the conditions under which the best performance can be expected are established; and some new theoretical and practical schemes are suggested which permit better understanding of device performance and yield better devices. The Hall devices are nonreciprocal, passive, and stable but dissipative. They permit the extension of frequency range from dc to several magacycles over which the nonreciprocal devices can be used. In this sense they are complementary to the microwave Faraday-effect devices such as isolators and circulators and will permit greater flexibility and choice of elements for complex circuit designs, if the loss can be tolerated. This paper presents basic limitations, from an insertion loss standpoint, on the performance of Hall-plate circuits imbedded in resistance or reactance networks."
"In this paper, it is shown that a lossless, three-wire system can act as a C-section in the Richards transformed complex frequency plane\\lamda[2]. Theoretical limitations on the realization of transmission zeros of such sections are derived. The cascade properties of these networks are also investigated. Specifically, a formulation of an insertion-loss function peculiar to theC-section is made. Finally, integral restrictions on the optimum broadbanding ofC-sections, coaxial lines, and frequency sensitive loads are derived. It is hoped that the above treatment will enable the designer to treat the microwaveC-section as an additional building block in filter synthesis."
"This paper presents a systematic derivation of a system of first-order dynamically independent equilibrium equations for an RLC network. The dynamically independent equations are obtained from a set of topologically independent equilibrium equations which are written in terms of a judiciously chosen set of independent, current and voltage, network variables. It is thus shown that superfluous variables, which are the result of dynamic constraints on the network, can be eliminated by inspection. Finally a method for writing the dynamically independent equilibrium equations by inspection of the network is presented. Thus we show that by the above techniques the set of dynamically independent equations can be obtained with little more labor than the more conventional equilibrium equations whose variables are only topologically independent."
"The unilateral gain defined by S. J. Mason, is a basic measure of the transfer activity of a two-port. It can be measured in a circuit made unilateral with lossless reciprocal elements. A general method of measurement is described, which in principle uses two reactances only; no transformers are required. The method has been realized in a coaxial-line circuit, and measurements have been made on a few transistors in the frequency range 100 to 900Mc. The results confirm that the unilateral gain is indeed measured in this circuit. It is suggested that unilateral gain measurements are useful both for research into basic device performance and for the specification of power-amplifying ability."
"This paper presents a new cascade synthesis of RC transfer functions with an unspecified multiplying constant. The method is based on a topological identity for cascaded RLC twoports and a theorem on the realization of RC voltage transfer functions with a prescribed termination. Proofs of the topological identity and the realizability theorem are given. The minimal realization of a class of biquadratic transfer functions is investigated, and some sufficient conditions for a fiveelement realization are found. The use of these results in the present synthesis procedure yields a relatively simple realization of RC transfer functions having one pair of complex zeros and any number of real zeros in the left half-plane. Several numerical examples are given, and comparisons are made with the results obtained by other well-known methods."
"The design ofm-derived image parameter filters, as well as the synthesis of Butterworth or Chebyshev pass band insertion-loss parameter filters with prescribed frequency-dependent minimum stop band attenuation, normally involves the use of graphical methods to find the necessary number and location of the attenuation poles. These methods are tedious and inaccurate. This paper describes an iterative approximation process, somewhat similar to Remez's second method [3], for the synthesis of low-pass and band-pass filters. The process is very fast and its programmed version (containing numerous options) fits into a 40,000-position computer memory. A brief analysis of the optimality and convergence of the procedure is included. Finally, the actual computer programs are described and some examples given."
"Equiripple rational functions used in filter design are discussed in the light of the algebraic theory of transformation of elliptic functions. Their solutions for order 5 and a number of their properties that seem to be new are given."
"It is shown that a general network determinant and its cofactors can be evaluated by means of \"directed trees\" and \"directed two-trees\". There is no sign problem. The products of such directed trees and directed two-trees will automatically give the correct signs. Furthermore, this new method can be applied to either the node-admittance matrix or the loop-impedance matrix. In case the given network is passive and contains no magnetic coupling, the digraph associated with the node-admittance matrix reduces to the original network; the directed trees and directed two-trees reduce to ordinary trees and two-trees, respectively"
"It is well known that time-invariant linear filters can be characterized by their impulse responses. In this paper, a method is presented for characterizing and measuring a class of randomly varying linear filters. The class of filters considered is constrained to have finite memory and bandwidth and is represented by a tapped delay fine with random tap multipliers having a stationary Gaussian multivariate distribution. The filter characterization allows the complete determination of the filter output statistics for any given deterministic input signal which is approximately time- and band-limited. These inputoutput relations are embodied in the filter mean and covariance transfer matrices. It is shown that these transfer matrices are observable in the sense that all of their coefficients are measurable, whereas the covariance matrix of the tap multipliers is not, in general, an observable. A measurement technique is described by which the transfer matrix coefficients can be determined."
"The question of the existence of oscillations in nonlinear systems driven by periodic forces and their calculation, has been receiving considerable attention in circuit and system theory in connection with the problem of frequency conversion. The present paper deals with this question, with particular emphasis on subharmonic response, for systems possessing a general type of hysteresis property."
"The Nyquist diagram technique is examined under very general assumptions; in particular, the linear subsystem is represented by a convolution operator, thus, the case of any linear time-invariant distributed circuit is included. It is shown that if there are no encirclements of the critical point, then the impulse response of the closed-loop system is bounded and absolutely integrable on[0, \\infty); it also tends to zero ast \\rightarrow \\infty. For any initial state, the zero-input response of the closed-loop system is also bounded and goes to zero. If, on the other hand, there are one or more encirclements of the critical point, then the closed-loop impulse response tends asymptotically to a growing exponential."
"Limitations of present techniques, such as sampling, dictate the consideration of new approaches to the display of nanosecond waveforms. Some thoughts about a novel method of observing nanosecond pulses that might be nonperiodic are discussed. The basic idea hinges on a stretching operation that transforms a given waveformf(t)into(r \\alpha)f( \\alpha t). After sufficient stretching one can observe the waveform on a conventional oscilloscope. A mathematical analysis precedes several suggestions for realizing the required system. One of the more interesting of these consist of a delay line whose velocity of propagation is made to vary with time, simultaneously along the entire length of the line, according to a given relationship. The suggested method may also be used advantageously in pulse-compression applications."
"A burst waveform is a finite sequence of pulses with a staggered PRF. It is used as a high-resolution radar waveform. The ambiguity function of a burst waveform has a good peak-to-sidelobe ratio along the range axis. But, along the Doppler axis, its peak-to-sidelobe ratio is not nearly as good. A mismatched receiving filter is the logical way to increase the peak-to-sidelobe ratio of the ambiguity function along the Doppler axis. Taylor weighting only suppresses the Doppler sidelobes that are close to the main peak. In this paper, we derive, by the techniques of nonlinear programming, an iterative method for calculating a mismatched filter that is optimum in the following sense. Let an intervalDof the Doppler axis be specified, as well as a desired peak-to-sidelobe ratio W. Then our method will calculate the mismatched filter with optimum signal-to-noise ratio that reduces the Doppler sidelobes to the specified level over the specified interval, if such a filter exists. If such a filter does not exist, then the calculated filter will still tend to suppress the sidelobes over the specified interval of the Doppler axis."
"An equation is derived for the collector-current waveform obtained when an unbiased transistor is driven by a large highfrequency sinusoidal voltage between base and emitter. Fourier analysis of this waveform together with assumptions about the input and output impedances enables the gain and efficiency of large-signal tuned transistor amplifiers to be found. The performance of three such amplifiers was measured. There appears to be reasonable agreement between the calculated and measured gain and efficiency."
"Perfect gain control is achieved when variation of an adjustable immittance affects only the magnitude of a specific network function. The adjustable immittances considered are those which can range between an open and short circuit, and for which the network function has finite values at these extreme points. It is shown that an adjustable element of this type behaves as a perfect gain control if 1) its immittance is proportional to the Th6venin immittance seen from its terminals looking into the network, and 2) the network function with the adjustable element open is proportional, but not equal, to the network function with the adjustable element short-circuited. For instance, a resistance can only act as a perfect gain control if the Thévenin immittance is resistive, and the ratio of the value of the network function when the variable resistance is zero to its value when the variable resistance is open is a real constant other than unity."
"Sufficient conditions have previously been obtained in order that an insertion-loss function be realizable in the form of a resonator ladder band-pass filter. In this paper a modified elliptic function is derived which satisfies the realizability criteria and, furthermore, will satisfy any set of standard filter specifications in terms of ripple, selectivity, etc. A computer program has been written to realize the resulting filter from these specifications and a brief summary of the computer results is included."
"This paper presents a method of network synthesis for a prescribed unit-impulse responsef(t), taken to be zero outside the interval(0, t_{0}). The imposed responsef(t)is approximated by another oneh(t), whose Laplace transformH(s)is always physically realizable as the transfer function of a passive network with lumped parameters. A finite number of equidistant values of the specified functionf(t)is used for the approximation. The pulse transfer function that has been used in elaborating the method no longer appears in the final design relations. The approximation criterion is the mean-square error in the interval(0, t_{0}), and outside this intervalh(t)is smaller than some imposed value. The transfer functionH(s)results are expanded into partial fractions. The necessary computations are simple. As a particular case, the method permits the determination of the responseh(t)in such a way, that it takes certain given values at regular intervals of time, thus making the method also useful for sampled-data systems. Illustrative examples and experimental results are given."
"To facilitate the comparison of the steady-state characteristics of different nonuniform lossless lines andRCdistributed networks, respectively, two auxiliary functions are introduced. The method is exact insofar as no approximations other than those inherent in the classical telegraphist's equations are made. Several pairs of these functions together with the corresponding series and shunt impedances per unit lengthZ(x)andY(x), describing nonuniform structures not reported so far, are deduced and these are tabulated along with those representing the well-known exponential, Bessel, and other structures. The technique is applicable to either RC distributed networks or lossless lines, and its use is illustrated by the example of a composite nonuniform matching section having characteristics similar to those of a Gaussian line."
"Given ann \\times nmatrix,Z(s)composed of elements which are the ratio of polynomials in the complex quantitys, necessary and sufficient conditions of a general nature are found which are required for the existence of a common-ground network of resistors and capacitors that possessesZ(s)as its open-circuit impedance matrix. Based on these conditions, we consider a form of this problem in which the main restriction is the requirement that the elements ofZ(s)have no more thann + 1poles. The solution presented provides a practical procedure for determining whether a given nth-order matrix with no more thann + 1poles can be realized, and if it can be, then an economical set of resistors and capacitors is derived. Further, a complete class of equivalent realizations is also presented."
"We show that anRCorRLdriving-point impedance functionZ(s)maps the closed right-half s plane onto a region in theZplane which is covered by the closed circular disk with the straight line segment joiningZ(0)andZ(\\infty)as a diameter; and which covers the open circular disk with center atZ(u)and radius|{1/2}uZ'(u)|, and the straight line segmentZ = Z(u) + jtuZ'(u),-1 < t < 1, for any real positive numberu."
"This paper presents the amplitude and phase-delay responses for a class of transfer functions with all zeros at infinity and poles located on an ellipse in the complex frequency plane, with equal spacings along the imaginary axis. The class is generated by varying the eccentricity of the ellipse, and it is found that when the ratio of the axis in the real direction to that in the imaginary direction lies in the range 0.4-0.8, good delay responses result, together with wide amplitude bandwidths. By varying the eccentricity in the range mentioned, a choice of amplitude and delay response can be made to facilitate any particular application."
"This paper is concerned with linear networks which contain time-varying resistors, inductors, and capacitors. The statevariables formulation is used to describe the general circuit. General sufficient conditions for Liapunov stability are derived in terms of the network parameters and the incidence submatrices of the graph."
"The properties of linear time-invariant passive systems are described in the context of generalized function (distribution) theory. The postulatory description of these systems is phrased in both the scattering or wave formulation, and the impedance or voltage-current basis. One conclusion of this paper is that a specific definition of passivity (attributed to G. Raisbeck) leads to a complete description of the system only when the postulate of causality is separately invoked; i.e., this definition of passivity does not imply causality and it is therefore a more fundamental assumption. Another conclusion is that the two seemingly different sets of postulates (scattering and impedance) are in many instances identical; the differences arise solely in the assumptions made concerning the domains of the two operators. Distribution theory is also used in an essential way to obtain new existence theorems, for both formulations, which are stated entirely on the real-frequency axis(p = j\\omega). The language herein is deliberately that of generalized function theory, so that the class of admissible systems and the inputs to these systems are broadened. In particular, the results -can be applied directly to systems which are described in terms of elementary functions."
"A new method of network analysis, a generalization in several different senses of existing methods and applicable to all networks for which a branch-admittance (or impedance) matrix can be formed, is presented. The treatment of network determinants is very general and essentially four terminal rather than three terminal, and leads to simple expressions based on trees of a simple graph associated with the network and matrix, and involving products of low-order, usually(2 \\times 2)determinants of tree-branch admittances, in addition to tree-branch products as in existing methods. By comparison with existing methods, the total number of trees and of tree pairs is usually considerably reduced, and this fact, together with an easy method of tree-pair sign determination which is also presented, makes the new method simpler in general. The method can be very easily adapted, by the use of infinite parameters, to accommodate ideal transformers, operational amplifiers, and other forms of network constraint; in fact, is thought to be applicable to all linear networks."
"Recent emphasis on the use of electronic digital computers has focused attention on a number of practical problems which were hitherto treated on an \"existence\" basis. One problem which arises in computer analysis of electrical networks is the listing of all trees in the network. Any practically useful scheme must find all the trees of the network without generating duplicates (for practical networks the number of trees exceeds the fast memory of any computer and, hence, slows down search for duplicates). Also, the trees must be generated by replacement of one branch at a time in order to keep track of signs (for active network analysis). A practical procedure satisfying these conditions is presented in this paper."
"A large-signal analysis is presented for frequency multiplier circuits consisting simply of input and output filters coupled by a varactor diode, without idler circuits. The analysis is concerned mainly with the 'series' form of circuit, and is based on the often-used assumption that the series loss resistance of the diode may be replaced by an equivalent shunt conductance at the frequency concerned. The conversion loss due to the diode alone is determined in general terms with no restriction of the input signal amplitude (beyond that set by the internal barrier potential and reverse breakdown of the diode) or of the ratio of output and input voltages. Evaluation is also made of losses due to filter imperfections and other parasitic effects associated with the diode. The analytical treatment is intended to be used for design purposes and allows systematic derivation of optimum conditions of operation of multiplier circuits of the type considered. The theory has been found capable of close prediction of circuit performance and optimum operation conditions for the diode used. Practical verification is combined with design examples illustrating comparative performance of single-and cascaded-multiplier stages."
"The scattering matrix is normalized to complex n-port loads, and some of the elementary properties of this generalized scattering matrix are discussed. The normalized scattering matrix is obtained in a straightforward manner from both the current-basis and voltage-basis scattering matrices. These matrices are presented from the intuitively attractive viewpoint of measures of the deviation of actual circuit behavior from optimal circuit behavior. The optimal matching condition employed is the specialization to the timeinvariant case of that obtained for complex, time-varying n-port networks excited by arbitrary waveforms."
"Parametric amplifiers, mixers, and modulators are nonlinear devices that are used for linear processing of small signals. One question that is usually passed up in discussion of these devices is \"How small must the signal be if the response is to be acceptably linear?\" In this paper an expression for an upper bound on the nonlinear distortion as a function of signal amplitude is derived. If the engineer knows, or guesses, that his signals are small enough, he analyzes the linear, small signal model for the pumped nonlinear device. This linear model, which is time-variant and periodic, is still too difficult to handle. The time variation is too complicated. The usual engineering approach is to solve a simpler problem by replacing the complicated periodic time-variant element with a sinusoidally varying element. This paper also presents a bound on the error introduced by such truncation of the Fourier series of the time-variant element."
"A restricted class of RL structures is considered. Specifically, an attempt is made to distinguish between 1) the member structures which approximately equal the Foster and the Cauer structures in natural frequency realizing ability and 2) the member structures which are markedly inferior to the Foster and the Cauer structures in natural frequency realizing ability. The attempt is successful. It is shown that the member structures which belong to the former category satisfy a remarkably simple algorithm. The algorithm suggests a corresponding algorithm as obtaining for the entire class of RL structures. All results have exact analogs for the RC and LC cases."
"Controllability is a valuable characterizing property in the theory of linear systems. In this paper, conditions which involve only system coefficient matrices and a finite number of their derivatives are shown to be sufficient for the controllability of linear time-variable systems and are used to exhibit some interesting effects in particular time-variable systems. Application of controllability concepts to time-variable electrical networks is considered; in particular, it is shown how the sufficient conditions for controllability may be used to develop classes of unilateral networks composed of only linear, two-terminal elements. Examples of such networks with time-variable RC elements are given."
"A universal definition of \"figure of merit\" associated with a variable-parameter one-part device (for example, ap-i-ndiode) for RF switching or modulation is discussed. The definition of figure of merit applies to a variable-parameter, passive, and linear one-port which has two \"quantized states\" at a single specified frequency. The definition is based on a property of a variable-parameter one-port device which is invariant under arbitrary lossless reciprocal transformations. From the physical meaning of a figure of merit, any variableparameter one-port which has two \"quantized states\" can be transformed by a lossless reciprocal two-port network into a \"canonical form,\" i.e., a variable resistance, which is equal to a reference resistance, say1\\Omega, at one state, and equal to another resistance, sayR \\Omega, at the other state. This fact has brought great simplification in the analysis of a modulator or switch circuit which contains a variable-parameter one-port with two quantized states. A generalized transmission-type modulator and switch, generalized reflection-type modulator and a phase switch are studied, and the optimum modulator or switch characteristics of those networks employing one variable-parameter one-port device have been disclosed."
"Gain-bandwidth limitations for certain physical systems have been obtained in integral form by employing a generalized representation theorem for bounded-real functions. These systems are characterized by the fact that certain portions of them are fixed or prescribed. The primary interest of the paper is the determination of how the fixed portion limits the overall performance of the system and, in particular, the gain-bandwidth constraints for input-output functions. A principal feature of the procedure, and of the specific results quoted, is that it applies (within assumptions such as linearity, time-invariance, etc.) to extremely general systems. For example, no restriction such as rationality (lumped, finite systems) is imposed. The examples considered (wideband matching, optimization of laser amplifier, etc.) have been selected either for their current interest or the generality of the statements which can be made concerning them."
"A communication net is considered in which the edges are lossy in the sense that flow through the edge is attenuated. Such a model describes many power or information transmission systems. The classical problem for such a net is that of maximizing the flow from a source to a sink. The solution to the problem for the lossless case is well known; the lossy case has been considered only recently by Fujisawa. In determining properties of the lossy communication nets, a saturated edge is defined as one in which the edge flow is equal to the capacity of that edge. The concept of the saturated cut set is introduced to obtain relationships that must be satisfied by the terminal capacities. If\\bar{t}_{pq}is the source terminal capacity (maximum flow at the source vertex to receive maximum flow atq) and\\underline{t}_{pq}is the sink terminal capacity (maximum flow that can be received atqwhen the maximum flow is sent fromptoq) then\\underline{t}_{ij} \\geq \\underline{t}_{kj}or\\overerline{t}_{ij} \\geq \\overline{t}_{ik}for any verticesi,j,andk. The property analogous to the S-submatrix property in the lossless case is also obtained. All results given reduce to known results when the loss of every edge becomes zero. This includes the maximum flow-minimum cut theory of Ford and Fulkerson, which is applicable only in the lossless case."
"In this paper the problem of realization of a resistiven-port network from its paramount admittance matrixYis considered from a geometric point of view. Augmentation of the set ofnports to a linear2n - 1tree on a complete graph with2nvertices leads to a system ofn(n + 1)equations inq = n (2n - 1)unknowns. All the real solutions of this system correspond to equivalentnports. They may be looked on as points of a manifoldLin theq-spaceE^{q}. The realization of Y in the conventional sense being constrained to non-negative resistor values is equivalent to finding a point of intersection ofLand the non-negative orthantPofE^{q}. In this paper the theory of equivalence is studied and some properties of L are defined. Similarly to the known method of the decomposition of the admittance matrix Y of a resistiven-port network withn + 1vertices into a unimodular congruenceY = CGC', this paper proposes a decomposition of a general admittance matrix Y into a subunimodular congruenceY = CGC'."
"Topological rules are provided for the expansion of admittance functions of linear networks which may include reciprocal and nonreciprocal branches, infinite-gain operational amplifiers, dependent current or voltage sources, vacuum tubes, transistors, and ideal transformers. Kirchhoff's rules for reciprocal networks, on the one hand, and signal-flow graph rules, on the other, appear as special cases. The rules are purely topological and, in contradistinction to some prior work, do not include sign rules dependent upon an arbitrary assignment of labels to nodes, or directions to reciprocal branches. Any term in an expansion corresponds to a subgraph of the network. The subgraphs are \"loop-woods,\" formed by trees comprised of reciprocal branches and disjoint loops which include at least one nonreciprocal branch each. Transformers are represented by a set of weighted short circuits. The rules are proved by means of \"polar\" incidence matrices A+, A- whose properties are explored."
"A new method of topological analysis for networks containing nonreciprocal components and mutual inductance is presented. The components are required to have two, three, or four terminals and an admittance matrix. The difference between the present method and other known methods is the result of allowing tree and two-tree admittance parameters to be a function of the shape and element content of corresponding trees and two-trees. No modification of the original network is required and for node determinant and diagonal cofactor calculations, no sign is appended to tree and two-tree parameters. The method is illustrated with a transistor amplifier."
"A gyrator circuit containing only three transistors has been designed by providing an active feedback path such that the circuit behaves like a two-way feedback system with transfer immittance parameters that are equal in magnitude and opposite in phase. At the same time, very low input and output immittances are obtained by this arrangement so that the need for additional negative resistance circuits or negative impedance converters (NIC) to neutralize the residual input and output impedances is obviated. Experimental data exhibit evidence of the excellent performance of the circuit as a gyrator, impedance inverter, and isolator over wide ranges of load and, frequencies that are well below the microwave region. From a theoretical analysis of the circuit, design equations are derived and their application demonstrated by actual design of the gyrator circuit to realize specified open-circuit (o.c.) impedance parameters of the two-port network. These equations show how the network parameters can be individually varied; desired values of the gyration resistance are easily obtained by adjusting single passive elements. The gyrator is then cascaded in between two RC two-port networks to realize complex conjugate poles in such a way that the sensitivity of the poles due to variation in the gyration resistance is minimized. Experimental study of the frequency response of the filter and the sensitivity of the poles when the gyration resistance is varied gives very good results in agreement with theory."
"Consider a given network which contains a few elements, that for some reason require special attention: independent sources, nonlinear devices, time-varying elements, variable parameters, or even just simple resistors in a feedback path. Extract these special elements outside the given network to leave an n-port. It is assumed that the n-port is linear; it may contain, for example, RLCM type of elements, ideal transformers, and linear controlled sources. The proper representation of such an n-port is discussed. Specifically, the hybrid description is explicitly formulated. A simple rule for determining a set of independent variables for the hybrid description is given. It is shown that if the n-port consists of RLCM type of elements only, a hybrid matrix always exists. The necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of the inverse of such a hybrid matrix is also given. In view of the interest in the literature on the A matrix, it is shown that the A-matrix description is a special case of the hybrid description."
"In this paper integral restrictions on the time delay of linear phase, low-pass matching networks are derived. These networks operate between a resistive generator and a load involving parasitic elements. The restrictions relate the minimum group delay, size of the parasitic elements, and order of the matching network (number of elements of the system) with the level of the overall gain. This paper is limited to the case in which the load has a zero of transmission at infinity. The restrictions involve the Appell integral. In the case of unit gain at dc, this integral becomes the Riemann Zeta function. The restrictions are derived by assuming a Gaussian amplitude characteristic. The synthesis procedure is based on the fact that the Gaussian amplitudes are asymptotic forms of Bessel polynomials which were investigated by Thomson and Storch."
"A figure of merit is defined for pulse-forming networks which takes into account frequency response as well as time response, and a class of filters was found that is best in the sense of this criterion. The characteristics of these filters in the stop band and in parts of the time domain lead to a new approximation problem, which is stated in the frequency and time domain simultaneously. Numerical solutions have been obtained for the parameters of a large number of filters of different degree. The frequency response and the delay of these filters in the pass band are very unusual when compared with those of pulse-forming networks known so far. The parameters of some of these filters are given in the Appendix."
"The paper introduces two types of active transmission lines having two stable states of equilibrium. In these, a transition from one state to the other is transmitted along the line and the transition waveforms are shaped during transmission. The properties of the lines have been investigated theoretically, using computers, and experimentally by using lumped constant elements and tunnel diodes."
"By means of the theory of Galois fields and formal series, it is possible to develop an operational calculus for the finite sequence space of finite fields and rings, where group laws are moduloksum and product; whetherkis prime or not. The sequences that can be treated are ultimately periodic. Elementary properties of this calculus are given and application to linear sequential systems is made possible by the introduction of transfer functions. Examples are described where the proposed calculus can be used to advantage."
"In this paper systematic procedures are developed for generating monostable circuits and bistable circuits with the counting property from a given dc bistable configuration. Essential to the synthesis is the controlled-resistance model, which represents those characteristics of three-terminal active devices necessary for the stable-state realization of switching circuits. In addition, the synthesis methods make use of a new, simplified form of the total dcI, Vcharacteristics of a complete bistable configuration viewed at any node pair. Criteria are developed for systematically determining all possible locations for the necessary energy storage elements of monostable and counting bistable circuits. Basic means of triggering these circuits are discussed. The procedures developed lead to existing and new circuits employing conventional (bipolar) and field-effect transistors. Some of these circuits are well suited to integrated realization. Experimental verification of the synthesis procedures is presented."
"Determination of the necessary and sufficient conditions that a matrix be the short-circuit admittance matrix of a resistor n-port without transformers is a classic problem in network theory. This paper presents a new procedure for determining the realizability of ann-port onn + 1terminals. This technique has the advantage of being considerably simpler than any previous technique; in fact, it proceeds almost by inspection. Furthermore, it completely eliminates the Gould algorithm used by Cederbaum, and it avoids the \"tree growing\" process of Guillemin, Biorci, and Civalleri. It is entirely algebraic in nature. The only restriction is that the given matrix have no zero elements. The method is applied to a tenth-order matrix to illustrate its simplicity. The method is based on a new equation relating the short-circuit admittance matrix to the inverse of the connection matrix of port voltages. A simple standard form for the short-circuit admittance matrix which leads to a unique solution of the equation for the connection matrix is given. The realizability is then completed by checking the result of a congruence transformation for hyperdimonance. A new method of obtaining tip ports is also included. This is applied to the realization of a linear tree, and it is shown that the usual permutation into linearly tapered form may be completely avoided."
"A new complex normalization procedure for scattering matrices is reviewed and an existence theorem is presented for determining whether a given matrix is the scattering matrix of a passive system with a known complex normalization. The new technique is applied to the problem of impedance transformation using lossless networks (compatible impedances), and the technique is shown to lead to the problem's complete solution. Examples which -illustrate the procedure are given."
"A new set of necessary conditions are presented for an nth-order square symmetric matrix Y with real entries to be then-port admittance matrix of a network containing positive resistors and(n + 2)nodes. The so called \"supremacy\" conditions represent a symmetric set of inequalities among products of pairs of elements in a matrix S obtained in a simple manner as a linear combination of entries in Y. The conditions are derived by augmenting the given matrix Y with an additional port to form a connected port structure, transforming the port structure until it is linear, applying the \"uniform tapering conditions\" and then eliminating the augmenting port. Extensions are given to the case ofn + pnodes with2 <P \\leq n."
"The n-station communication net, when used as a channel in a larger net, can be used inn^{2} - ndifferent ways. These ways are considered in an interesting series of papers concerning the relations among then^{2}- nutilizations. The present paper continues the series by completely solving this terminal capacity realizability problem in the domain of generalized nets which admit negative channel capacities. The procedure is then to attack the problem of equivalence between (generalized) nets and communication nets. Although the equivalence theory developed here is not yet complete, the present work shows it to be a promising avenue for further exploration; and the incomplete theory itself has already produced one important new result in the theory of communication nets proper: a necessary and sufficient realizability condition for terminal capacity specifications which demand the maximum possible number of distinct terminal capacities."
"Since Kirchhoff's current-law prohibits the use of \"nodes,\" and Kirchhoff's voltage-law prohibits the use of the \"planes over the meshes,\" the topological theory of electric networks must be based upon the utilization of \"branches\" only (1-network) and their surroundings. A large number of visible and invisible multidimensionalp-networks surrounding the branches can be introduced, that collectively form neither a graph nor a polyhedron, but a nonRiemannian space. All the parameters of Maxwell's field equations propagate in this space. Thus the four rectangular connection-matricesC_{0}, C_{c}, A^{°}, andA^{c}of eachp-network form the building-blocks of an asymmetric \"affine connection\"\\Gamma_{\\beta\\gamma}^{\\alpha}. It defines the \"covariant\" space-derivatives, that replace in networks the familiar gradient, divergence, and curl concepts of fields."
"Two alternate statements of a fundamental theorem on existence of state models and their solutions for systems of multi-terminal, linear, stationary components are presented in terms of the system structure, i.e., the component characteristics and their topology. The theorems, along with their proof, establish an explicit procedure for 1) identifying an upper bound on the order of the system state vector, 2) identifying the components in the state vector, 3) generating the system state model, and 4) developing state models of hierarchies of system components, i.e., the solution of large-scale systems by \"tearing and reconstruction.\" Six corollaries to the main theorem simplify its application for many of the systems encountered in practice."
"The regenerative frequency divider provides an output sinusoid whose frequency is(1/k)times that of an input sinusoid, wherekis an integer. A simple mathematical model of such a divider is proposed, and its approach to the steady state is analyzed for an input of constant amplitude and phase. Two types are considered. In the first the steady-state input-output characteristic is double-valued for input amplitudes greater than a certain threshold; in the second it is single-valued. In both, the output decays to zero if the input amplitude is less than the threshold, but in the first type of divider additional conditions on the initial values of the output signal must hold in order for the output not to decay to zero when the threshold on the input amplitude is exceeded. An appendix deals with the effect of a memoryless nonlinearity on a quasi-harmonic (narrow-band) signal."
"The class of lumped negative-parameter circuits, each containing the three elements R, L, and C, one element of which is piecewise linear and negative over a finite domain, is studied from an abstract model point of view. The principal result obtained is the identification of the three essentially different model circuits which remain after redundant circuits and those which are dynamically defective have been removed from consideration. One of the remaining circuits and its dual are the models used to represent all known negative-resistance devices. The other two are a negativecapacitance and a negative-inductance circuit, respectively. The potential realizability of actual devices representable by the latter two models is suggested by the correspondence between nondefective negative-resistance models as identified in this paper and existing negative-resistance devices. Representative phase-plane trajectories and other parametric plots of circuit variables obtained from analog computer simulations of the three basic models verify their physical realizability as aggregations of analog computer components."
"This paper deals with the relations between the structure matrices of electric networks which are n-port equivalent to a given network composed of passive linear time-invariant bilateral two-terminal elements, whose associated linear graph is connected and has no self-loops. Then-ports are defined as (i) ports created by cutting designated links of a cotree, or (ii) ports created by connecting to designated branches of a tree. Matrix representations for the electromagnetic, topological, and port structures of networks are described. It is found that the structures of equivalent networks can be formally represented by means of a pair of square matrices, one of which describes the change of electromagnetic structure, and the other the change of topological and port structures. The principal result of the paper is the determination of necessary and sufficient conditions on these matrices for n-port immittance equivalence. This result opens the possibility of directly specifying the electromagnetic, topological, or port structures of an equivalent network, and then formally solving for the remaining information. This is in contrast to existing methods, based on W. Cauer's linear transformation of port variables, in which the effect on the three structures is \"mixed\" in a single matrix of transformation."
"This paper presents necessary and sufficient conditions for a function to be the driving point impedance of a network composed of uniform RC lines all having the same RC product connected in an arbitrary manner. Foster type realizations are developed for an impedance function satisfying these conditions. Analogous to the vector approach for thesplane analysis of lumped circuits, a method for determining the frequency response of driving point impedance and transfer functions in the P = cosh x1s.R- plane is considered. A transfer function synthesis procedure based upon a ladder realization is developed which is capable of realizing transmission zeros along the real axis of thePplane between+1and- \\infty. By locating a zero atP = -11.6using this procedure, a zero can be obtained on thej \\omegaaxis of thesplane. The use of lattice networks and negative immittance converters for obtaining complex conjugatePplane poles and zeros is also discussed. Finally, it is pointed out that the foregoing work is applicable to three terminal networks that are both symmetrical and reciprocal. These networks may consist of lumped as well as distributed elements."
"In this paper the poles and zeros of the two-port short-circuit admittance parameters of a class of tapered distributed RC networks are discussed. They are shown to be the zeros of an orthogonal set of solutions of the network differential equation. When the differential equation is written in Normal Form, it is possible to define a class of tapered networks which have closed form solutions and similar pole-zero patterns. This class is shown to include the uniform, exponentially-tapered, hyperbolic, square and trigonometric-tapered distributed RC networks."
"This paper presents some of the salient features of ann + 2terminal, n-port, network synthesis procedure which is capable of producing various equivalent realizations having different element branch topologies on appropriate port-tree structures. The method is based onn + 1terminal synthesis techniques and on the concept of paralleling three networks. One network provides the necessary intersubtree transmission properties but contains both positive and negative elements, the second network provides no intersubtree transmission but introduces parasitics among the ports of a given subtree, and the third network completes the requirements of the subtree. The method is basic, simple to apply, and is in the state of development which urges its generalization."
"Realizability conditions and synthesis procedures are given for a class of distributed RC networks consisting of a cascade connection of two-port RC networks (unit elements), series shortcircuited stubs, and shunt open-circuited stubs. Each element of the network is a distributed RC section where\\sqrt{RC}is an integral multiple of some common minimum factor, (i.e., commensurate lengths). Necessary conditions have been found for realization of any shortor open-circuit immittance parameter, together with sufficient conditions for the simultaneous realization of any two such parameters. A nontrivial example of the synthesis procedure is given."
"This paper describes some novel circuit design techniques for linear integrated circuits. These techniques make use of elements which can be constructed easily in monolithic form to avoid processing difficulties or substantial yield losses in manufacturing. Methods are shown which eliminate the need for the wide variety of components and tight component tolerances usually required with discrete designs, which substitute parts which can be made simply, and which make use of special characteristics obtainable with monolithic construction."
"The synthesis of variable active networks is investigated. The networks studied have a frequency or time response that is a function of an independent variable, which is assumed to vary sufficiently slowly with time that the systems can be considered to be time-invariant. The only variable elements considered are controlled sources. The sufficiency of fixed passive and variable active elements is demonstrated for transfer functions that can be realized as transfer functions of lumped passive networks (for any fixed value of the variable parameter). These functions are assumed to be rational insfor fixedx, the independent variable, but arbitrary functions ofx. It is shown that the fixed passive network need only be an RC network with, at most,m + 3ports, wheremis the degree of the denominator polynomial ins. The only other requirement of the RC network is that the numerators of the transfer impedances from the input port to the remainingm + 2ports be linearly independent polynomials ins. In addition, it is shown that the number of controlled sources can be reduced from2m + 2in a variety of situations by a particular choice of the RC network."
"A method for obtaining the dynamic equations for a broad class of driven nonlinear networks is presented. The parametric approach to element value characterization leads to a mathematical description for any unicursal network element. The parametric representation allows the mathematical description of any RLC network which contains such elements and independent sources by means of a set of coupled algebraic-differential equations. The conditions under which these governing equations can be reformulated in the mathematically convenient normal form are given with the explicit means for doing so. Finally, simple methods are presented for revising the original network model so that the normal form exists over the entire dynamic space under mild restrictions."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents of the March 1965 issue of IEEE Transactions on Communication Technology."
"Following a brief consideration of multistage switching arrays in general, with particular emphasis on the advantages of 3-stage switching systems, this paper discusses the blocking properties of \"folded\" vs. \"nonfolded\" 3-stage switching arrays. Conditions under which a \"folded\" array will be nonblocking are stipulated. A comprehensive series of formulas are given for determining the internal blocking of any \"folded\" 3-stage array which does not satisfy the conditions for nonblocking. Included also are tables (based on certain of these formulas) for quickly finding the blocking in any \"symmetrical\" 3-stage \"folded\" array, and for determining the \"dimensions\" of symmetrical arrays required to carry any given density of traffic at any given maximum allowable blocking. Additional information and formulas are included, covering the use of \"multiple-linkage\" in special arrays intended for register access. The derivation of certain of these blocking formulas is given in the Appendix. It should be noted that the formulas given in this paper are all based on the assumption that the distribution of telephone traffic offered to the arrays will conform to the Exponential Binomial Probability Distribution (Bernoulli); this is the usual assumption made in American practice."
"In this paper, a frequency shift keying (FSK) system that adapts to unknown signal arrival times is defined and analyzed. The adaptive receiver extracts information concerning the signal arrival times directly from the information bearing signals and uses these measurements in a structure known to be optimum for the case of perfect measurements. The system error rate is derived and plotted as a function of the received SNR, the size of the signal alphabet, and the quality of the delay measurements."
"The investigation reported in this paper describes the generation and detection, with a conventional discriminator, of narrow-band SSB FM, and presents the threshold characteristics of the system. The generation and detection of wide-band SSB FM is also reported. The narrow-band signal is easily detected with a limiter discriminator and offers improved signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) over conventional FM for modulation indexes less than approximately 0.25. The wide-band signal is generated by an exponential frequency multiplier which multiplies the frequency and modulation index of the narrow-band signal. This signal is detected as an AM signal and the detected envelope is passed through a logarithmic transfer device to recover the original signal. Since \"single-sideband frequency modulation\" is not an appropriate description of this special case, the authors have called it \"Single-Sided Wide-band Analog Modulation\" (SSWAM)."
"Computer and switching control systems in use today typically require some type of memory for system operation. The memory, or data store for the system, serves to hold data in storage until it is needed by a cycle of system operation. Relays, flip-flops, punched cards, magnetic tapes, discs, and drums, ferrite cores, and matrices represent some of the devices available for this purpose. This paper describes a new magnetic drum memory that has been developed as a low-cost storage device which does not require ancillary amplification for either input or output functions for switching and control systems. This memory device has some features that are characteristic of a digital computer memory, but it does not have the latter's high cost. The new memory device can be used either as a general-purpose bit store, or as the main storage device in switching/control systems."
"The purpose of this paper is twofold. From the viewpoint of communications engineering, it presents a model of certain random perturbations that appear to come in clusters, or bursts. This will be achieved by introducing the concept of \"self-similar stochastic point process in continuous time.\" The resulting mechanism presents fascinating peculiarities from the mathematical viewpoint. In order to make them more palatable as well as to help in the search for further developments, the basic concept of \"conditional stationarity\" will be discussed in greater detail than would be strictly necessary from the viewpoint of the immediate engineering problem of errors of transmission. This work is related to an earlier \"new model\" due to J. M. Berger and the author; the logical structure of the theory has been further streamlined and a number of fresh consequences have been derived; the empirical fit has been further improved, while recourse to ad hoc corrective terms was made unnecessary."
"To most IEEE members who have identified themselves with a particular area of professional activity by joining one of the Groups of the Institute, the Transactions are probably the most visible bond with their colleagues in the field. In the first year of merged existence, the Com Tech Group has changed its chemistry from a double to a single, potentially stronger, bond. As of January 1, 1965, and after many years of publication, the bi-monthly publication, \"Communication and Electronics,\" has combined with the somewhat younger \"Transactions\" of the (former) Communication Systems Group and will from now on appear as a quarterly under the name, \"Transactions on Communication Technology.\" The publication and its Editor are committed to a tradition of the highest standards and will continue a policy aimed at reflecting the great contemporary advances in the field of Communication Engineering. To achieve this end, the Group has adopted procedures which give to the various Technical Committees a strong voice in securing and reviewing papers."
"Sonic wire delay lines are used for the storage functions and transistor switching circuits for the logic functions comprising the common control of this electronic telephone switching system. Because only short-term storage of transient information (identity of the two parties during a telephone conversation) is required, sonic delay lines are uniquely suitable as storage elements. The use of modern high-speed transistors results in simple and reliable saturated-mode switching circuits operating at a clock frequency of 1 Mc/s."
"The United States Army has been actively considering deficiencies in the present communication system since the Korean conflict. In 1954 the concept of a Universal Integrated Communications System (UNICOM) was evolved. The fundamental objective of UNICOM is the achievement of an integrated, world-wide switching system, flexible in structure, and designed to meet the needs of substantially all military users. UNICOM is being developed around a concept that is highly flexible in nature. The Central Processor, a high-speed, digital, special-purpose communication computer, controls the message switch, the digital circuit switch, and the analog switch of the engineering test model now under development."
"When the change is made from tubes to transistors, the repeaters can be buried in the ground, which makes temperature control possible such that after about ten temperature-controlled repeaters, a pilot-controlled repeater will be used. Although a system with buried repeaters makes it difficult to locate a fault, this can be done by a pulsed carrier operating above the useful band and returning to the input point at each repeater via special filters connecting both directions. When the power-feeding circuit is interrupted, the origin of the fault can then be tracked down by resistance measurement. Transistor repeaters require efficient protection with respect to induced extraneous voltages, e.g., by gas-discharge tubes and diodes."
"Of the many possible solutions being studied in the search for a new switching system concept, the \"quasi-electronic\" approach appears promising. It is characterized by the exclusive use of electronic components in combination with sealed dry reed switches, mainly used as crosspoint elements. This crosspoint avoids the transmission problems inherent with full-electronic crosspoints. This paper discusses the relations between switching plant and interoffice as well as subscriber line network, and possibilities of introducing new features into such a system. A system, coded HE-60, developed along the lines of the quasielectronic principle is described. A trial office of this system was cut over in 1963 and has functioned within the world telephone network without failure until now."
"One of the appeals of Time-Division Multiplex (TDM) switching systems is the large amount of space saved by there being no need for a space-division switching network. Studies were made in an experimental exchange (Fig. 1) operated at the Central Laboratories of Siemens & Halske since 1962 to determine what conditions are important for a compacting effort. The most important factors are 1) The speed of the circulating memories. 2) The internal organization of the system."
"A unique experimental digital data modem has been developed that achieves a degree of co-channel interference and multipath discrimination rejection, which are important features when using the HF medium. It has been found feasible to incorporate these provisions in a compact unit which is compatible (with minor interface changes), with existing standard military and civilian transmitting and receiving equipment. The technique used employs pseudorandom data encoding and correlation detection. To minimize the synchronization requirement between transmitting and receiving terminals a \"programmable matched filter\" is used to perform the cross correlation process. Thus, timing may drift and propagation time vary over a time range equal to a teletype band interval without loss of synchronization. Multipath rejection is achieved by use of time discrimination of the various correlation pulses corresponding to the discrete propagation paths."
"This paper presents the results of a data transmission test in which a data set generating nine frequency-shift channels within the voice band was employed. The tests were conducted over a cross section of the various types of facilities found in the switched telephone network. Relationships between error performance and transmission characteristics were investigated. Also correlation between errors and noise impulses was examined on a real time basis. Results include a statistical analysis of: 1 ) a distribution of error probability among calls, 2) distribution of errors among the channels, 3) error density distribution within characters, 4) number of error-free characters between successive errors, 5) probability of error-free transmission, and 6) expected character transmission rate as a function of block size."
"Until recent years, exchanges of information over long distances were made by various means which can be classified in the order of the volume of information to be transmitted: 1) Written documents. 2) Speech in the form of analog signals. 3) Coded means (mainly telegraph and telex). 4) Analog means (television, facsimile). The last three fall within the field of electronics. This paper describes a transmission and switching method using digital signals which is able to transmit coded or analog information including speech. The method of transmitting information is a digital switching and transmission network using cable or radio circuits and, as a type of modulation for analog signals, Pulse Code Modulation (PCM). Such a system, presently in the course of development, is herein described."
"No. 1 ESS is a general purpose telephone switching machine for local, tandem, and toll application, both two and four wire. The need for flexibility leads to the use of stored program control. To meet the requirement of absolute dependability, an unusual system organization is used together with automatic duplicate switching and automatic trouble detection and diagnosis. These actions must not interfere with service. Matching and redundant coding are used to detect faults before they can interfere with service. Thus No. 1 ESS is designed as a real-time digital machine without down time. This dependability requirement differs in both kind and degree from that of a general purpose digital computer. The flexibility of stored program control makes possible the economical addition of new telephone services and will allow other services to be readily added in the future. In addition, variations in size, traffic, and features between offices can be handled largely by variations in stored translation tables. This leads to the use of highly standardized hardware and programs. The first installation of No. 1 ESS is operating in the laboratory. It now serves as a permanent program development vehicle after completing its initial function of hardware evaluation. The second installation is located at Succasunna, N. J., and is undergoing tests prior to being put into regular telephone service. The Succasunna office is also currently providing additional machine capacity for program development. Equipment for numerous other installations is now in manufacture."
"This paper outlines the design features, principles of operation, and performance characteristics of a voice transmission path employed in an electronic telephone switching system. The transmission path is two-wire, bidirectional, and incorporates PulseAmplitude Modulation (PAM) as a means of interconnecting the subscribers' line circuits. The system provides facility for 100 simultaneous conversations or \"links\" in the form of 100 discrete time positions. The techniques employed for supervising and signaling the subscriber's line are also described."
"Telephone subscriber-line plant consists largely of cable pairs which, for lengths in excess of 18 kilofeet (kf) (18 000 feet), require loading to provide acceptable transmission. Various loading systems have been used over the years to secure optimum transmission with the telephone instruments representing the state of the art at the time. The current trend in exchange plant is to place even the longest rural telephone circuits in buried cable. This implies the application of loading, together with a judicious control of bridged taps beyond the last loading coil. Tests were therefore made on 24-gauge, 22-gauge, and 19-gauge artificial cable pairs loaded to the H-88, D-88, and D-66 systems described herein with varying lengths of bridged tap and using variously weighted noise as a test signal, and variously weighted \"detectors.\" In this paper the test results are evaluated to show the relative \"advantages\" of the D-66, D-88, and H-88 loading schemes."
"This paper reports on a test of the Transitel Automatic Meter Reading System which was conducted at Owosso, Michigan, over a sixteen-month trial period. This test confirmed that the Automatic Meter Reading System for the reading of residential utility meters is technically feasible and thoroughly compatible with associated telephone company equipment and facilities. This conclusion was drawn from the following summaries: 1) At no time was there evidence that the system hardware as installed resulted in interference to the operation of or service offered by the utility or telephone company. 2) It was determined that the system, with minor changes, easily afforded by modern-day production techniques, should operate free from excessive maintenance problems. Having tested the technical feasibility of the Transitel Automatic Meter Reading System, it is the consensus of the parties to the test that the time is now appropriate for a detailed study of the economic aspects of installing and operating such a system."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents of the June 1965 issue of IEEE Transactions on Communication Technology."
"A method of superimposing a pseudorandom channelsounding signal by amplitude modulation upon a conventional FM information-bearing signal is described. The important feature of the technique is the method of combining the pseudorandom waveform with the FM signal so that one component of the AM channel-sounding spectrum is stationary and unaffected by the frequency modulation. Coherent detection and cross correlation are used at the receiver to recover the \"transfer function\" of the medium, while the FM information signal is recovered by conventional FM detection methods. The technique is considered most applicable to a two-directional tropospheric scatter link in which a low data-rate feedback channel is available to command changes in parameters of the transmitted signal, based on the analysis at the receiver of the instantaneous transfer function of the medium, to optimize channel transmission. Parameters of the transmitter which might be varied are power, deviation, data rate, carrier frequency, etc. (It is assumed that the bandwidth of the channel-sounding signal is considerably wider than the information modulation bandwidth.)"
"In the transmission of a signal between two points, a set of primary parameters is the ratio2Bof transmission bandwidth to signal bandwidth, the required signal-to-noise ratio P0, the ratio Pcof transmitted power-to-noise density, and some measure of system complexity. The constraint here imposed on system complexity is not to allow coding in the time domain beyond that which is incidental to expanding the base signal bandwidth. Typically, the original signal is first quantized intoMlevels whereM = \\sqrt{2P_{0} + 1}. TheM-ary digits are then transformed, intoM' ary digits, whereM'/log M' = 4B/log M. This is done to have the transmitted signal just fill the available transmission bandwidth. Transmission space is divided intoM' biorthogonal components, such as two quadrature channels in each ofM'/4noninterfering frequency channels. TheM' integer then transmitted is a pulse in the appropriate one of theM' phase-frequency channels, and is detected by a maximum likelihood device. The resulting coding scheme reduces to conventional modulation methods such as AM, FM, PM, and PCM for certain combinations of P0andB, but for all other cases requires lower Pc."
"An unusual signal with dual properties has been evolved such that the waveform has one of three possible frequencies in each digit time slot as well as four phases at the transition points between the digits. Such characteristics permit the recovery of the original data input either by noncoherent FM or by differentially coherent phase detection, depending upon the characteristics of the transmission medium. At the same time, the signal affords two-to-one bandwidth compression compared to binary systems. Expressions for the constraints imposed on the system and for power spectral distribution are developed. Finally, a simple and straightforward embodiment of the concept as well as certain empirical results are presented in detail."
"Presented is the performance analysis for four types of linear-modulated communication systems where the message to be transmitted comes from one of two classes of stochastic processes, and the additive channel noise is white and Gaussian. The two classes of stochastic processes which are used to modulate the transmitter are taken to be the \"maximally flat\" and \"asymptotically Gaussian\" processes. Demodulation is accomplished at the receiver by coherent frequency translation using a noisy replica of the carrier and filtering the result with one of two types of Wiener filters. These are commonly referred to as the zero-lag (realizable) and infinite-lag (nonrealizable) Wiener filters. The four types of modulation considered are: linear-modulation, double-sideband (DSB); linear-modulation, double-sideband, suppressed carrier (DSB/SC); linear-modulation, single-sideband (SSB); and linear-modulation, single-sideband, suppressed carrier (SSB/SC)."
"In this paper experimental data obtained in evaluating the performance of an angle diversity system are presented and discussed. Data were collected at 8 Gc over a 170-miie tropospheric scatter system using large antennas equipped with multiple feeds. Tests were conducted during the period June, 1962, through February, 1963. The following are discussed. 1) The relative performance of a dual angle diversity system compared to a dual space diversity system. 2) The relative performance of the experimental system, operating inn-fold angle diversity, compared to a theoreticaln-fold diversity system. 3) Variations in the method of obtaining angle diversity in terms of operating one or more transmitters at a single frequency, or multiple transmitters (and receivers) at different, but closely spaced frequencies. 4) The general characteristics of tropospheric scatter propagation at 8 Gc. The analysis of the experimental results shows that, withn-fold angle diversity operation, diversity improvement comparable to that obtained by the use ofn-space diversity channels (which would requirenantennas) is possible. It is shown that successful operation is achieved with a single, narrow, transmitting beam illuminating the troposphere, and a group of equally narrow receiving beams, all operating at the same frequency, receiving energy from this region of the troposphere. Significantly, the power loss in those receiving beams that are not directly intercepting the narrow transmitter beam is small. This is attributed to \"beam broadening.\" In addition to the measured performance, results of some theoretical studies showing expected performance under angle diversity conditions are included."
"Splitt's correspondence (ibid., vol CS-11, Dec 1963, pp 494-496), which contained results on error probabilities for noncoherent N-ary frequency and time-shift keying systems, has spurred the present author to communicate asymptotic results which apply to rather general expressions derived in for the slowly varying Rician channel. This channel is known to occm in several physical situations, e.g., high-frequency teletype and tropospheric scatter links."
"The purpose of this correspondence is to describe some results of a recent test of a forward error control system over operational HF radio circuits. This system employed simple algebraic block codes in conjunction with bit interlacing. In the system tested, symbol separation amounted to approximately one second, thereby allowing single bursts of two seconds to be corrected. Of course, many bursts of shorter duration are also correctable. Tests were conducted using two tone channels on a DCS HF link operating between NAVCOM centers located at Rtockton, Calif. and Cheltenham, Md. The basic test configuration is shown."
"The advent of transistorized circuit elements and digital techniques has made it possible to develop a dormant method for the improvement of record data communications which is far more effective and economical than alternate proposals in the last decade. PEP should go a long way in satisfying the requirements for accurate transmission of press broadcasts, shore-to-ship transmissions and ground-to-air transmission where other means such as ARQ are hardly applicable since a poor or no return circuit is available during the required transmission time. The logic of the PEP system cannot be contradicted since it fits the means for correction of the time variant character of most disturbances and the criterion for operation is based on the direct measlwement of distortion. This is a radical departure in diversity receiving techniques but more direct and conclusive in its action. As an error protection system, the dependence solely upon bit distortion assessment enables the transmission of any unprocessed data serial bit stream. Thus crypto, 5, 7, 8, 10 unit character coding or digital voice and facsimile can all be handled with equal facility without coding for error correction."
"A formula is given for the mean rate at which a point moving randomly in ann-dimensional space crosses an arbitrary hypersurface. It is applied to evaluating false-alarm rates of systems of sensors arranged in coincidence or in parallel. Detection probabilities to permit a comparison of these arrangements are calculated for systems with identical sensors emitting independent Gaussian noise voltages and receiving signals of equal strength. A system that adds properly weighted outputs of the sensors is then best. At extreme SNR the parallel system is next best, but because of the high thresholds it requires to maintain a preassigned false-alarm rate, it is inferior to coincidence systems at moderate SNRs."
"This paper presents a discussion of four QPPM (quantized pulse position modulation) voice communication systems that make use of the ideas of Wald's sequential decision theory. The \"double-threshold, speech statistics\" system and the \"doublethreshold, largest of S\" system are applicable to the situation of interference consisting of narrow-band Gaussian noise. The \"fourthreshold, speech statistics\" system and the \"four-threshold, nearest to reference\" system are for interference by narrow-band Gaussian noise and an impulse-like noise. The systems receive their titles from the way information in the null zone is used. They are not represented as being optimum in any sense. The interest in them lies in the fact that they represent a novel application of the ideas of sequential decision theory."
"Cyclic codes have been extensively studied for burst error detection. These codes involve modulo two algebra and are implemented by shift registers. Arithmetic-burst-error detecting codes are presented here which are easily implemented by standard arithmetic computer instructions. Unlike cyclic codes that have a probability of undetected error bursts independent of the burst length and polynomial generator, the probability of undetected burst errors varies with the code generator and the burst length. However, it is conjectured that the fraction of undetected error bursts is of the same order as that for cyclic codes. This is proved for asymmetric channels. Single, double, triple, and double burst error-detecting arithmetic codes are constructed."
"An electronic register sender that uses electronic/ electromechanical interfaces to receive dialed information via special relay sets positioned between the linefinders and first selectors of a step-by-step telephone system is described. These interfaces are connected in turn via time-divided highways to a common control circuit. The common control has a recirculating memory that stores the information for all interfaces and has access to a translator. It provides for classes of service, extended area service (EAS) and direct distance dialing (DDD) calls, and can be added to existing systems."
"D.L. Hofmockel of the Bell Telephone Labs. has kindly pointed out to the author that in the article \"Analysis of Correlator Signal-to-Noise Characteristics\" by D. K. Cheng and B.R. Mayo, equation (18) does not agree under all conditions with the curves plotted in Fig. 4. Further checking shows that an error was introduced into (15) and thereby into (18) after they were used to compute the data for Fig. 4. Figure 4 is correct and the correct version of (18) is provided."
"A form widely used to represent signal waveforms and samde functions of random processes is given such that one integral component is the Hilbert transform of the random process. The author derives a form representing the random process so that the sidebands above and below ωc have been separated in order that the low-frequency coefficients may be written in terms of Hilbert transform pairs."
"A phase-shift-keying (PSK) satellite communication system is considered in which 1) clutter (other users and/or jamming) is added to the desired signal on the up-link, 2) the repeater contains a hard-limiter, 3) thermal noise is added on the down-link, 4) the receiver consists of a synchronous detector followed by an infinite clipper, and 5) the output of the clipper is sampled at the Nyquist rate, and the decision is based upon whether the majority of the samples are positive or negative. The error probability of this system is given by a binomial distribution, the parameters of which are determined by the clutter and noise statistics. Explicit results are obtained for the case where the down-link noise may be neglected and the clutter is Gaussian. It is shown that the video clipper results in a degradation of performance of at most 2 dB relative to an ideal linear system and only about 1 dB relative to a system in which a limiting repeater is employed without clipping on the ground. For the case of strong clutter and strong noise, the degradation relative to an ideal linear system is shown to be 3 dB. The use of infinite clipping provides a two-fold advantage: 1) The error analysis can be performed at all signal-to-clutter and signal-to-noise ratios, not only in an asymptotic limit; 2) Digital signal processing of large time-bandwidth product signals is facilitated. (Infinite clipping corresponds to one-bit quantization.)"
"The traffic aspects of two communications systems are considered. The first case uses a single wide-band facility to simultaneously carry traffic of different bandwidths (for example, a super group to carry single trunk calls and calls requiring a channel group). Both types of callers have full access to the facility, but in order to equalize their grades-of-service the wide-band traffic may be given the advantage of queuing when it cannot gain access. The economy which results from this combined operation must be balanced with the cost of the queuing facility. The second case, facility or group switching, employs the switching of trunk groups to meet individual traffic requests. In this model there are two types of single trunk callers, one which is served on available single trunks and another whose requests are met by establishing temporary exclusive groups to meet subsequent demands of this second type of caller. The blocking probabilities, operating efficiencies, and traffic consequences are discussed, with the conclusion that facility switching must yield switching savings greater than the increased trunk costs (more trunks to meet operational inefficiencies) in order to produce net savings in a system to provide an equivalent grade-of-service. Of particular importance in both cases is the oscillatory form of the blocking probability curves, a characteristic that is endemic to these systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents of the Sept. 1965 issue of IEEE Transactions on Communication Technology."
"When communicating through an unknown or random channel, it often becomes advisable to utilize some of the transmitted energy to allow the receiver to measure certain channel parameters. In this paper, a set of transmitted signals are chosen of the form\\{x_{m}^{(i)}(t), x_{r}(t)\\}, t\\epsilon(0,T), wherei = 1, 2,...,l. Herex_{m}^{(i)}(t)represents the message or information portion of the signal andx_{r}(t)represents that portion which is transmitted for the purpose of identifying the channel. The random multipath channel model is assumed, and an optimum \"one-shot\" Bayesian receiver is derived under the Gaussian assumption for channel filter and additive noise. An expression for error probability is derived for a special case of binary phase reversal keying, assuming that the additive noise in the channel is white. Probability of error curves are plotted as a function of various system parameters for both the optimal and a simpler suboptimal receiver. The energy sharing problem between the message and reference portion of transmitted signal is also considered. The divergence criterion is utilized and shown to be an effective method for deriving the optimum trade-off."
"Because of recent changes in tarifs, many of the costs given in the much needed and informative subject correspondence by G.A. Barnard named above (ibid., vol. COM-12, pp. 228-230, December 1964) are not those now in effect. Moreover, some of the costs given there were computed incorrectly or from inapplicable tariffs. Rates currently charged are given here in Table I. Costs of both a 250-mile and a 1000-mile channel derived from these rates are given here in Table II as a function of a bandwidth. These tables inch1de \"local channel\" and \"channel terminal\" costs but not other charges which are often part of the~cost~of communication services, for example, construction and installation charges, special signaling or control circuits, special input-output equipment, or extensions. Rates shown here are on a monthly basis. Rates for \"occasional\" or \"one-time\" use are higher. Where rates are shown on an hourly basis, nonconsecutive hours are charged at higher rates."
"There is an error in the above-named paper (ibid., vol. COM-13, pp. 109-116, March 1965). Figure 15 was printed over its own caption and also over the caption for Fig. 16. Figure 16 was not printed at all. The correct figures and their captions are shown."
"The switched services network (SSN) is a new private line telephone service to provide customer dialed connections between PBX's at widely separated and scattered locations. This service differs from the presently used tandem tie line switching in that the network switching will be accomplished by 4-wire and 2-wire common control switching machines strategically located in telephone central offices throughout the country. This paper will describe the design of these networks and discuss the transmission objectives which have been developed to obtain a high degree of customer satisfaction on calls over the networks. As in any telephone transmission design problem, the major considerations are overall loss, echo, stability, noise, and the lossfrequency characteristics. Impulse noise and envelope delay characteristics are important considerations especially when data is to be transmitted over the network."
"Digital transmission lines consisting of cable media and regularly spaced self-timed reconstructive repeaters are being considered for the transmission of binary digital information, such as arbitrary combinations of digitized speech, television, and data. For transmission over the line, the binary information is coded into a sequence of symbols. The transmission code is referred to as the pulse transmission plan. Among the significant practical problems which must be considered in choosing the pulse transmission plan are: 1) minimization of performance dependence on source statistics, 2) repeater timing jitter performance, 3) dc wander of the pulse stream, and 4) in-service performance monitoring. A new class of selected ternary pulse transmission plans has been devised to combat these problems. Emphasis in this paper is placed upon a member of this class, paired selected ternary (PST), in which the binary sequence to be transmitted is framed into pairs and translated into appropriately selected pairs of three level pulses."
"The problems of transoceanic transmission of large volumes of information have been raised increasingly over the past few years. Lately, the need for transoceanic digital communications has been of interest. This paper discusses the significance of these trends and examines the technical prospects for handling large volumes of digital traffic using submarine cables. Concentrating on transatlantic traffic, an argument is built up for an all-digital cable by the year 1970. Submarine cable technology is reviewed briefly and several approaches to transoceanic digital transmission are discussed, using known and estimated cable technology. A final approach is described in detail using existing repeater and cable technology for the transmission of multilevel digital data at rates in excess of 1.5 mb/s."
"A novel printing method is used in a high-speed, fully electronic teleprinter system which is able to transmit, receive, and print-out telegraph and data messages at a maximum speed of 225 characters per second or 1800 bauds, i.e., 20 to 30 times faster than in ordinary teleprinters in use today. The system consists of 1) a photoelectric reader for punched tape and an electronic transmitter, 2) an electronic receiver and high-speed printer, and 3) the necessary equipment to transmit and receive the signals on telephone channels. Main emphasis in this paper is given to the nonpercussive printer, which generates the characters by electrolytical inking of ordinary, untreated teleprinter paper in a 5 by 7 mosaic form. The printing shows good contrast, is fast to wiping, light, and the influence of ordinary chemical fluids, and may be copied by all known office reproduction sets. The system may be used with advantage when: 1) large amounts of information have to be transmitted and printed out, 2) the communication channel is available only for limited time, e.g., in radio satellite communication, and 3) the transmission has to be finished in a short time. The system has been tested with good success on radio satellite communication loops."
"Atmospheric noise and fading are major sources of error in the transmission of digital data via ionospheric reflection. Using appropriate mathematical models of the fading and atmospheric noise, this paper derives analytical expressions for the binary error rate of FSK and PSK systems. It is demonstrated that the error rate depends on the atmospheric noise in the various diversity receivers only through a single composite noise variable equal to the sum of the detected noise powers of the outputs of identical diversity receiver filters. At large SNR's andLth order diversity the error rate is shown to be proportional to the reciprocal of the SNR raised to theLth power. Simple expressions are derived showing the system degradation resulting from the presence of atmospheric rather than Gaussian noise. A comparison of theoretical and measured error rates for the AN/FGC-29 and the AN/FGC-54 shows remarkably good agreement."
"The packaged N3 carrier terminal is the latest Bell System addition to its short-haul carrier family. Recent technological advances were used to advantage to produce a system possessed of refinements which were heretofore unavailable. This paper describes the packaged N3 carrier terminal and the plug-in units which comprise the carrier portion of the terminal. The packaging philosophy and the advantages derived both by the operating companies and the manufacturing shop are discussed."
"The design optimization of digital communication systems using selectively fading transmission media such as HF and troposcatter requires knowledge of the selective fading characteristics of the media. A minimal characterization is provided by the gross channel parameters of multipath spread and Doppler spread. This paper presents several techniques which will allow the simultaneous measurement of multipath and Doppler spread in real time with a minimum of equipment complexity. The techniques are first divided into two classes depending upon whether measurements are made on in-phase and quadrature components of received carriers or on envelopes of received carriers. A further subdivision is made according to two different techniques of multipath spread measurement, one of which, called the SSB method, uses two transmitted carriers while the other, called the FM method, uses a frequencymodulated carrier. The envelope measurements are the simplest and should provide considerable help in any large scale testing of the selective fading properties of the HF and troposcatter media."
"Digital data communication in the HF band is influenced adversely by multipath and Doppler smear which cause frequency-selective and time-selective fading, respectively. As a result of the selective fading, an increase in signal-to-noise ratio brings in diminishing returns as far as reduction in error probability is concerned. Careful attention to system design is necessary in an HF modem if its performance is not to be limited by selective fading effects. This paper determines the major error probability limitations caused by multipath and Doppler smear in the Kathryn modem, a new HF modem of considerable current interest. An analysis is also made of the effectiveness of two techniques for reducing these error probability limitations. Specifically, the effectiveness of time-guard bands in reducing the error probability caused by multipath smear and the effectiveness of delay compensation in reducing the decorrelation of the pilot tone caused by the combined effects of Doppler smear and a nonzero bandwidth pilot-tone filter are studied in detail. In addition, the error probability caused by synchronization error is evaluated. The effects of diversity combining are studied in all cases."
"The purpose of this correspondence is to report on some nxasurements of output SNR (signal-to-noise ratio or S/N), characteristics for a square-law detector extracting signals from non-Gaussian noise, specifically, impulsive noise. Non-Garlssian noise arises in varioas communication media such as the atmosphere, wire lines, and under water. In experimental and theoretical investigations of the effects of non-Gaussian noise on various communications systems, a simple correlator is often considered because it is possible to obtain theoretical predictions of the (S/N), for signal and additive non-Gaussian noise at the correlator input if an appropriate noise model is available for calculating the required fourth-order moment. Middleton (1962), in his analysis of correlator performance in non-Gaussian background noise, employed the so-called Poisson impulse noise model. His theoretical predictions reveal that impulsive noise always degrades the (S/N), as compared with Gaussian noise backgrounds having the same spectral distribution for a given input SNR. However, his theoretical formulas are rather difficult to check experimentally in their full generality and assess the relative importance of various parameters. We compare a study restricted to the case of a square-law detector with Middleton's results."
"Some interesting articles on automatic, transversal equalization, have appeared in recent months. This subject is considered highly important. One purpose of this correspondence is to point out some earlier, less widely circulated reports that discuss this subject in considerable detail and explain some additional, important considerations."
"The reliability of a probabilistic communication network is considered. A probabilistic communication network is a network in which each branch is given a probability that the specific branch can perform its purpose successfully. This probability is called the reliability of this branch. The idea of the overall reliability of the simultaneous communication among all (or part of) the stations of a given network is introduced, rather than the pairwise reliability between any two stations as was discussed in previous works along this line. The overall reliability of a communication network is defined as the probability that simultaneous communication can be secured among all the stations; two formulas are given to enumerate it in terms of the branch reliabilities. An approximation is developed to calculate the overall reliability through the incidence matrix of the network when all the branch reliabilities are very small. Also, a criterion to compare relative importance of the roles played by all the branches is established by defining a quantity \"load\" for each branch. Two efficient algorithms are derived to find a most reliable subnetwork with no redundant branches. In addition, an exhausting method is furnished for the case of seeking simultaneous communication among only part of the terminals of the network."
"The capabilities of the polybinary technique for transmission of digital data in absolutely band-limited channels are evaluated by analysis and experiment. Relative bit rates and probabilities of error per bit are used to compare the various polybinary systems with each other and with the more conventional multilevel techniques of data transmission. It is concluded that duobinary transmission can be used to advantage up to the ideal binary rate of 2 bits per cycle of bandwidth, but that no further advantage appears to result from higher orders of polybinary transmission."
"The objective of this note is to determine, for several example channels, how much the correspondence between reference and modulated carriers is degraded by an arbitrary offset in time-frequency (TF) space. The amount of this time-frequency offset is shown to determine the effective signal energy of the transmitted signals."
"A noncoherent frequency-shift-keying (NCFSK) modulation system is considered. The binary element error probability is computed when the additive noise is atmospheric (using empirical curves) and the fading obeys a gamma distribution. The fading is assumed to be flat over the frequency band occupied and slow in comparison to the baud rate. Curves displaying the probability of an element error as a function of signal-to-noise ratio are given, and a direct comparison is made with the corresponding results for idealized Gaussian noise. It is concluded that, for certain atmospheric noise conditions and fading distributions, atmospheric noise is not as harmful as Gaussian noise. However, in other cases, the probability of an error occurring in a system corrupted by atmospheric noise may be many times that of the same system affected by Gaussian noise."
"The N3 carrier system is a compandored 24-channel, single sideband system utilizingN-repeatered lines of existing design. This paper includes a general description of the system organization, a discussion of system features, and gives expected performance values as well as objectives of some significant system transmission parameters. Features of special interest include a common carrier supply, frequency-correction units to eliminate frequency shift introduced by the repeatered line, and automatic carrier alarm provisions. Incorporating modern solid-state circuit designs with liberal use of negative feedback, the newly developed N3 carrier terminal provides a new standard of short-haul performance capable of meeting today's intertoll transmission objectives."
"This paper discusses the problems and solutions of communications handover in a medium altitude multisatellite system. Various methods of handover are presented together with a description of the geometric boundaries of the basic problem. The effect of variable path delay on voice, teletype, and data transmissions is discussed. The paper then proceeds to formulate the specific design of an instantaneous handover system based on digital range measurement at each site, applicable to medium altitude satellite systems using digital data rates of 2400 bits per second. Expansion of the system to accommodate higher rates is shown to be relatively straightforward."
"Narsingh Deo's comments suggests an alternative metric of survivability (pairs of stations in communications) to the one Paul Baran, the original author, chose to use in a recent paper on survivable communications (number of stations in communications with all, see ibid., vol. CS-12. pp. 1-9, March 1964). Deo's point (ibid., vol. COM-12, pp. 227-228, December 1964) is well stated and the original author would like to add to Deo's remarks."
"A theoretical analysis of the suppression of frequency modulation in parallel signal channels by the use of a Mix-On-Self (MOS) loop is presented here. The analysis includes the derivation of formulas which enable the prediction of FM suppression in both the reference and adjacent signal channels as a function of modulation frequency, modulation time delay in the loop bandpass filters, and modulation time delay between the parallel channels. Also included are experimental data demonstrating the use of an MOS loop and verifying the theoretical predictions for FM suppression in such a loop."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The invention of SSB-FM (single-sideband frequency modulation) is usually attributed to E. Bedrosian. I wish to point out, without detracting in any way from Bedrosian's significant contributions to communication theory and practice, that SSB-FM is fully covered by US Patent 3054073, which is in the name of K.H. Powers and is assigned to the Radio Corporation of America (RCA). The patent was issued about one month before Bedrosian's 1962 paper was published [E. Bedrosian, \"The analytic signa] representation of modulated waveforms,\" Proc. IRE, vol. 50. pp. 2071-2076, October 1962]. Turning now to Glorioso's and Brazeal's paper [R.M. Glorioso and E.H. Brazeal, Jr., \"Experiments in 'SSB FM' communication eyetems,\" ibid., vol. COM-13, pp. 109-116, March 1965], the author suggests that their Fig. 15 and the conclusions based upon it must be interpreted cautiously. Some months ago the author generated SSB-FM waves on a Fourier synthesizer and envelope-detected them amidst noise. While this work was done for another purpose, and while he did not use the postdetection logarithmic circuit employed by Glorioso and Brazeal, his records lead to conclusions different from theirs. Specifically, he questions their Fig. 15 for small values of input S/N. The difficulty here, however, may lie in definitions of, and measurement techniques for, S/N. More generally, he suggests that S/N is not a good criterion for assessing SSB-FM performance near threshold."
"Not infrequently, it is desirable to initiate phase coherent communications between terminals mutually unaware of the other's location. A method is proposed which provides automatic synchronization based on strictly geometric considerations, subject to the condition that each terminal is cognizant of its own position in space with respect to a common coordinate system. The method consists of constraining the transmitter to insert time (or phase) delays in each emitted signal as a function of its position and direction of transmission. Similarly, the receiver inserts a delay dependent upon position and look angle. These delays are measured with respect to an imaginary radiation source (usually defined as the origin of the common frame of reference). With proper delays at both terminals the signal arrives at the receiver with an exactly anticipated time (or phase) relationship. Equations are derived expressing the delays to be inserted for communication in two and three dimensions. To implement the automatic synchronization system, either an omnidirectional antenna pattern or a narrow-beam, scanning antenna is prescribed. For the latter case a means is required to aid the transmitter and receiver in establishing expeditiously their common line; an auxiliary synchronization scheme is suggested guaranteeing that any two antennas, one transmitting and one receiving, will confront each other once every scan period. None of the concepts proposed requires an extension of state-of-the-art communication techniques."
"This bibliography includes books, periodicals, proceedings, and technical reports. All types of communications are covered, including voice, teletype, and general data transmission. The study objectives include both the efficient use of present facilities and the optimal design of additional facilities. The parameters of interest are message delay, error rates, routing controi, and cost."
"The Contributors' section contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the co-authors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"The following phenomena are discussed in relation to experimental observations on a number of frequency division schemes: \"division\" of a wave containing several frequencies; phase ambiguity; and strobing. Phase ambiguity is believed to be a fundamental limitation, and the results of a number of previous experiments are attributed to its effects."
"A new system for remotely monitoring the air or gas pressure in communications cable is described. The pressure readings are automatically recorded at a central location, thereby eliminating the need for manual measurements in the field. The system consists of remote stations, installed in the field along the cable route, which connect to the terminal station located at a central facility. A unique feature of this system is that only a single cable pair is required for monitoring 40 or more remote stations. Also described are the technical operation and features of this new system and its advantages over the alarm systems in common use today."
"This paper reports results of a study to determine how rapidly performance of a matched filter receiver degrades, when operating in a non-Guassian noise environment."
"Recently, it has been reported that the Hakimi Theorem, quoted as Theorem 1 in the above named-paper (ibid., vol. CS-12 pp. 185-190, June 1964), does not hold in the general case. The theorem, however, is still true in so-called bi-path networks discussed by D.T. Tang (1964). In case of bi-path networks, the argument in the original paper is sound. However, in general networks, some modifxation must be made. In that case, a more fundamental relation can be readily derived from the definition of branch capacity. The commentor derives a new expression that should be used in place of (6) in the original paper Consequently, Theorem 2 of the original work should be changed as noted herein. A more detailed treatment of the problem is found in Ling et al. (Inst. Elect. Commun. Engrs. Japan, vol. 48, pp. 40-48, January 1965 (in Japanese), to be translated into English and published by the IEEE in Electronics and Communzeataons an Japan)."
"The fundamental signal design considerations for space communication and tracking systems are discussed. The signal design principles are illustrated by application to the characterization and design of precision tracking signals in view of the fact that meeting the requirements of precision tracking is a prerequisite for the realization of an integrated space system. Tracking signals are characterized in terms of the properties of their autocorrelation functions and are classified as harmonic and nonharmonic. Criteria for comparing tracking systems are established and systems based on tracking signals representative of sidetone, and pseudorandom coded sequences are compared. A third class of signals is defined which combines the desirable features of both types."
"Theoretical and practical aspects of the design of a binary FM signal originating from a single frequency source are presented. Such a technique permits a high degree of frequency and phase stability which cannot be achieved with conventional methods. The line frequencies are inherently locked to the bit speed, are orthogonal to each other, and always have a predetermined phase at the bit transition points. Consequently, the intersymbol interference is negligible and the original message can be recovered by noncoherent FM or a coherent process using either differential or absolute reference. There is no need to maintain such an absolute reference at the receiver, since the reference forms an inherent part of the transmitted signal and is easily separable. Three simple and practical embodiments of the system are presented; either method generates the desired signal and reconstructs the original data input. Finally, the experimental model is discussed and certain empirical results presented."
"In a typical satellite communication system, several modulated carriers pass through a transponder simultaneously. If limiting action is present, signal suppression may occur, and cross products are produced. An equation is derived for the power spectrum of the output of a hard limiter when the input consists ofnangle modulated sinusoids plus random noise. Based upon this equation, the magnitude of any term can be determined; numerical results are presented for the magnitudes of the signals, suppression, and crossproducts for a large number of cases. When the signals are demodulated at a ground station, the crossproduct terms falling near the desired signal cause distortion. A method for computing this distortion and some numerical results are presented."
"Character loss in a conceptual computer at its input terminals is analyzed. This is first done within the classical framework in which a system must be designed to allow no loss whatsoever. The problem is then treated where a system can allow some degree of loss. To this end, a generalized mathematical model for character schemes is constructed. It is then shown that, in this framework, character arrivals can be approximated by a Poisson source, allowing the problem to be reformulated as a question in queuing theory. As such, one can solve the problem as a limiting case of a problem which has already been solved. Finally, the resulting formulas for loss are approximated by formulas which can easily be applied. Certain conclusions may readily be drawn. One is that a vastly enlarged system may be designed if one allows some trivial amount of loss. Another is that various schemes for avoiding loss, which have been used in industry, have often been unnecessary."
"The minimum bandwidth pulse for a given rms value and peak amplitude is found using the Pontryagin Maximum Principle for bounded phase space. The solution is obtained by actually solving the equations of the maximum principle rather than by a verification of a solution arrived at by other means. The resulting optimal pulse shape can be used for comparisons with more easily generated pulses, and may be considered to be the optimal modification of a rectangular pulse from the point of view of minimum bandwidth. Pulses of this sort are useful in pulse communication systems."
"Frequency shift keying is effective in communicating through dispersive or multipath fading channels, but it often cannot provide a sufficiently high data rate. Nonorthogonal coding can be used to obtain an increased data rate without an increased bandwidth. A reasonable increase in energy per bit is required to maintain a given error rate. Several nonorthogonal coding techniques are presented and discussed."
"The problem of transmitting an analog message over a channel corrupted by additive Gaussian noise using angle modulation of a sinusoidal carrier is considered. The problem is formulated as a continuous estimation problem, where the desired output is a waveform that is the maximum a posteriori estimate of the transmitted message. The resulting structure is a nonrealizable, nonlinear system. We next find a demodulator structure that is realizable with delay, whose performance approximates the optimum system. Keeping the demodulator structure optimum, the transmitted signal is now optimized to obtain the best overall system. Two types of system constraints are considered. The demodulator is constrained to be above threshold, and the rms transmitted bandwidth is constrained. The modulator consists of a linear preemphasis network followed by a no-memory angle modulator. We find the linear network which causes the overall system to be optimum. Finally, we compare the optimum system to a phase modulation system using an optimum demodulator and properly chosen modulation index. For the class of message spectra, the difference is small."
"A new method of acquisition of pseudonoise signals is described. This method is based on sequential estimation of the present state of an incoming pseudonoise signal by examining a small number of input bits. Performance of the sequential estimation system is compared with the stepping correlation system, and significant improvement of acquisition time is shown for signal-to-noise ratios down to approximately -15 dB. The system also automatically gives shorter acquisition times for improved signal-to-noise ratios. Experimental results are included which verify the analytical results. In particular an average acquisition time of 74 ms is demonstrated for a -10 dB signal-to-noise ratio using a pseudonoise signal suitable for high accuracy range measurement to 3300 km unambiguous range."
"The design and implementation of the IBM 2910 Automatic Intercept Switch, which can interface telephone company plant equipment with an IBM 7770 Audio Response Unit, is described here in detail. These units are part of a mechanized telephone intercept system that was put into service in St. Louis, Mo., in February, 1965."
"A mechanized telephone intercept system, such as that which was put into service in St. Louis, Mo., in February, 1965, is described. When fully loaded, this system will serve some 600 000 main telephones in Metropolitan St. Louis. The system includes an IBM 2910 Automatic Intercept Switch, IBM 7770 Audio Response Units, and an IBM 1440 Data Processing System. The types of calls handled, telephone traffic, reliability, programming, and costs are discussed."
"This paper describes an electronically-steerable antenna suitable for the ground terminal of an active medium-orbit satellite communications system. A unique phased array antenna design permits the implementation of a practical ground terminal with components that are well within the state-of-the-art. The array terminal is capable of performing the functions of acquiring and tracking a number of satellites simultaneously, for establishing simultaneous and practically uninterrupted communications with a number of other ground terminals, and it is suitable for portable ground or shipborne terminals."
"Selective calling radio systems based upon binary pulse coding have not been considered practical because of vulnerability to pulsive urban noises. By adopting a new decoding method which is able to discriminate code length and a suitable integration system, and by increasing the Hamming distance of codes, a new system has succeeded in drastically reducing the probability of WRONG CALLs, and has made it possible to achieve highly efficient selective calling under severe noise situations. Analyses were made on the disturbances by impulse noises to PCM-FM signals, and it was found possible to evaluate the call rate as a function of the number of noise impulses per unit time. Experiments were carried out for a system with 1 048 576(220) subscribers. The minimum Hamming distance of codes was selected to be 2 bits, the integration format was 2/5, the code length was 21 bits, and receivers were made pocket-sized. The maximum rate of WRONG CALL is3.17 \\times 10^{-4}per second, and CALL capacity is 47 500 subscribers per hour under a noise situation which gives a CALL rate of 50 percent for a one-train code. The field intensity needed for a CALL rate of 90 percent is 35 dBμV/m with an ambient noise of 40 dBμV/m peak at 150 Mc/s."
"The impulse noise requirements of the Strategic Air Command's Project 465-L data circuits, together with the requirement for alternate voice operation of these circuits, provide an opportunity to study first-circuit random noise effects in N2 carrier systems. Due to the nature of these composite services, efforts are made to achieve a level of performance that should be completely acceptable to the \"military\" under all known environmental conditions. Toward this end, design and operating margins have been maximized so that, under normal conditions, noise thresholds are far below actual limits. First-circuit random noise effects in N2 carrier systems are studied with particular reference to their characteristics when measured using sine-wave calibrated Western Electric 6A impulse counters and using the three-level impulse counter technique. The noise \"floor\" in transistorized repeaters and terminals is investigated and, based on empirical results, simple graphs are provided for estimating the random component of impulse noise and steady noise -C message weighting as a function of carrier input level and percent modulation. The transient component of impulse noise is investigated, as well as the relative susceptibility of repeaters and terminals to these transients."
"The performance of multilevel narrow-band FM using conventional modulators and demodulators is evaluated. The parameters of the system are optimized, and it is shown that it is possible to achieve the same probability of error as with ideal n-ary phase modulation and comparison detection with only fractions of a dB of more average signal power at the detector. The system appears attractive in that it might be very simply instrumented."
"A new class of pulse-frequency modulated systems is presented in this paper. These systems referred to here as\\SigmaPFMhave many advantages over previously used schemes such as integral PFM. Most significant advantages are improved stability and simpler physical implementation of the modulator. The major part of this paper is concerned with the study of sustained oscillations using a specially developed quasi-describing function. One important feature of these kinds of PFM systems is that they often present a limit annulus and not a limit cycle, a feature which is common in most nonlinear discrete feedback systems. A few examples with experimental verification are presented and the limitations of the method are discussed."
"The Kalman-Bucy filter for continuous linear dynamic systems assumes all measurements contain \"white\" noise, i.e. noise with correlation times short compared to times of interest in the system. It is shown here that if correlation times are not short, or if some measurements are free of noise, the optimal filter is a modification of the Kalman-Bucy filter which, in general, contains differentiators as well as integrators. It is also shown for this case that the estimate and its covariance matrix are, in general, discontinuous at the time when measurements are begun. The case of random bias errors in the measurements is shown by example to be a limiting case of colored noise."
"By considering simultaneously theN-x(or theN-\\dot{x}), whereN=d\\dot{x}/dxand the\\dot{x}-xplanes, second order non-linear autonomous systems (not easily amendable to the existing methods) described by the differential equation\\ddot{x}=F(x, \\dot{x})can be studied. Changes in system behavior due to changes in initial conditions, nonlinear dampling and restoring forces can easily be studied. Simple and general as it is, the method presented here is believed to be novel."
"In certain applications such as prosthetics or manipulation in a hostile environment it is necessary to approach a selected target with an artificial arm. In this paper specific features of target approach in biological systems are outlined having in view the design of automata with similar performances. The theoretical basis for the design of servoarms is found in optimal control theory. A control law serving the above purpose is developed, the synthesis procedure for the optimal controller is presented as well as some experimental checks on a human operator."
"An analytical procedure for obtaining the root locus with positive and negative gain is described. Solutions of various systems consisting of rational polynomial and/or transcendental functions ofsare obtained. The root locus for a varying time constant is investigated. Accurate root locus curves can be plotted from the analytical solution. The gain or time constant is calculated for each point on the root locus. Application of the method is particularly suitable for obtaining the root locus of a characteristic equation containing a transcendental function or with a varying time constant for which the graphical method is difficult to apply."
"In this paper, the theory of the optimum control of an unknown linear plant is discussed. Rather than try to estimate the coeffcients of the plant, the future error as defined by a quadratic measure is estimated using a Bayesian estimator. In this manner, better system performance can be expected since the effect of estimation errors on the estimator is obtained. The optimum control signal is then obtained which minimizes the estimated future error. It is shown that it is a linear function of the present output of the system. In the final section, a necessary and sufficient condition is obtained for the convergence of this procedure to the optimum system obtained with known coefficients."
"When one attempts to design self-optimizing or adaptive control systems for plants with unknown dynamic characteristics, a major problem is that, due to the unknown initial conditions on the plant, the plant dynamics may inadvertently be identified in terms of an operator which is not unique. Since erroneous results are obtained when optimization is performed in terms of a nonunique operator, a means of characterizing a plant in terms of a unique steady-state operator, is described. This paper considers the problem for discrete-time plants and shows that the entire operator need not be identified but only certain essential characteristics of the operator. A general procedure for performing the identification and some simplifications which are applicable in special cases are described."
"Three impulse modulation techniques, each of which provides precision control of spacecraft attitude together with excellent fuel economy during limit cycle operation, are evaluated comparatively in terms of compatibility with sensor noise and with maneuver (plus damping) requirements. Analog computation is used to efficiently simulate sensor noise and controller nonlinearities. Typical response plots demonstrate performance variations (attitude accuracy, rates, fuel economy, jet duty cycle, etc.) as functions of switching hysteresis, sensor noise spectrum, filter parameters and controller parameters. Based on analog results and theoretical correlation, design guides are evolved for selecting control system parameters and minimizing jet fuel usage in terms of mission performance requirements and sensor noise characteristics."
"The sensitivity of a control system is usually taken to be the normalized variation of some desired characteristic with the variation of plant or controller parameters. Rather than the usual absolute sensitivity described above, a new definition of relative sensitivity is introduced for the optimal control problem, wherein the system performance is always compared with its optimum under the given circumstances. The implications of the relative sensitivity and its relevance to optimal system design are discussed in detail. Moreover, a theoretical approach to the problem of system optimization when plant parameters are subject to change or are incompletely specified is presented."
"This paper deals with a generalization of the method of Zubov for the construction of Liapunov functionsV(x)useful in estimating the location of stability boundaries. For a system\\dot{x}=f(x), V(x)is taken as the solution of(\\nablaV)' f(x)=-h(x)g(V)whereh(x)is positive semi-definite and not identically zero on a non-trivial trajectory andg(V)exhibits the significant behavior of the system. For a second order system having (with time reversed) an unstable limit cycle analytic in a parameter ε, a suitableg(V)would beg(V) = V(1-V)\\dotVsatisfying the above partial differential equation may be developed as a power series in e and the position of the limit cycle can be estimated fromV = 1. As an example of the procedure, the method is applied to van der Pol's equation and the position of the limit cycle is estimated to order ε2."
"A new method for analysis and design of control systems is presented. The method is based upon a set of simultaneous algebraic equations; the roots and the parameters of the compensator are calculated simultaneously. The method is a direct synthesis, no trial and error is needed. Since analytical expressions are derived, the method is well-suited for implementation by digital computer. Several examples of different compensators are presented and the general expressions for some specific cases have been derived."
"In a great many control systems, error is primarily caused by transient load torques, often the result of static friction. To keep the error due to transient load torques small a high output inertia, and high values of gain crossover frequencies are required in the control loops. Integral networks that increase the static stiffness of the control system generally have negligible effect against transient load torques. The maximum error produced by a step of torque is approximately as follows for a rate feedback system:\\theta_{e} = \\frac{T}{J \\omega_{c}\\omega_{r}}(1) whereTis the magnitude of the step of torque,Jis the output intertia, ωc, is the gain-crossover frequency of the position loop, and\\omega{r}is the gain-crossover frequency of the rate loop. Thus, if the error is to be kept within a given bound\\theta_{e}, the maximum allowable friction torque Tfis given byT_{f} \\leq \\theta_{e}J\\omega_{c}\\omega_{r}(2) Structural compliance is a severe limitation upon the allowable values of gain-crossover frequency. The maximum value of rate loop gain-crossover frequency ωrin practice is usually about half the natural frequency of the structure ωn. The position loop gain-cross-over frequency is usually at least a factor of three below that of the rate loop. Therefore one can assume that\\omega_{r} \\leq \\frac{\\omega_{n}}{2}(3)\\omega_{c} \\leq \\frac{\\omega_{r}}{3} \\leq \\frac{\\omega_{n}}{6}(4) Substituting (3) and (4) into (2) givesT_{f} \\leq (1/12)J\\omega_{n}^{2}\\theta_{e}(5) Equation (5) shows that regardless of the type of control system used, there is a maximum possible value of friction torque that is related only to the allowable error, the output inertia, and the structural natural frequency. Although this limitation is derived in terms of a specific servo configuration, it also holds approximately for other configurations, and cannot be improved by integral networks."
"The convex variational programming problem has been found of practical importance to power system scheduling and control. Convex variational programming problems are closely related to the convex programming problems treated by Kuhn and Tucker [8]. Among their positive attributes are the absence of difficulties with weak relative minima and with saddle-point or conjugate-point conditions. As a result it is feasible to develop dual-variational problems and to provide estimates for bracketing the extreme value of the functional of the variational problem when gradient or successive approximations methods are employed for determination of near optimal control schedules. This paper develops necessary and sufficient conditions for the optimal control schedule and a means for numerically determining bounds to the extreme value of the functional. Applications are given to the problem of hydrothermal power system coordination."
"This paper shows a method for using describing functions in a control system with multiple nonlinearities. The linear system resulting after the proper describing functions have been inserted is analyzed using an \"input dependent root locus\" which is a modified root locus technique. The rules for construction of the input dependent locus and a proof of its applicability are given along with examples which illustrate the method. The technique shows the existence of limit cycles, their amplitude and frequency when they exist, and the stability of the limit cycle."
"Adaptive control systems can be classified according to the response time of the adaptive loop Tarelative to that of the main servo loop Tm. The response time Tacannot be smaller than the time needed for making the required measurement on which the adjustments are based. In a slow adaptive system,T_{a}\\ggT_{m}, and the adjustments are made according to the estimated situation (statistical parameters of the inputs changing plant parameters, etc.) or the estimated performance (error, cost, intermediate parameters etc.). IfT_{a}\\llT_{m}, usually a reference model is chosen and the system is forced to conform to the reference model. Sometimes the reference model is dimensionless so that the fastest response can be obtained. In both cases,T_{a}\\ggT_{m}andT_{a}\\llT_{m}, the system can be analyzed by introducing suitable approximations. The condition of stability for the adaptive loop is derived in general terms. IfT_{a}\\approxT_{m}, both analysis and synthesis become difficult. The concept of \"dual control\" is introduced, but not developed in the paper."
"In many adaptive servomechanisms, a gain is varied as a function of some noisy measured quantitity. If the measured quantity (or another quantity depending on it) is an input to the variable gain, then the noise in the gain will be correlated with the noise in its input producing rectification and an undesired (dc) component in the output. This effect is analyzed and analytic bounds for the magnitude of the bias are computed for some typical cases. An example is also worked out in detail."
"The principle of invariance, first discussed by Kulebakin [2] for systems subject to external disturbances, is extended to the problem of building systems that are insensitive to plant-parameter variations. Through the use of nonlinear signal comparators and plant models, several classes of systems that are relatively insensitive to large parameter variations have been devised. These feedback configurations implicitly identify major parameter changes and modulate the plant drive to compensate for these changes. The control of nonminimum phase plants and systems with noisy output transducers may be improved with these schemes."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper gives a method for the analysis and synthesis of a controller to track a time-varying optimum operating point. In particular, the maximization of the average of a quadratic performance index of a general system is considered where not only the location of the maximum is time-varying, but also the shape of the performance index function. The optimization problem is reduced to that of a mean-weighted square error minimization one and Wiener filtering is employed. The controller, or filter, consists of linear integrators in conjunction with linear time invariant filters and instantaneous multipliers. Thus, an analogue computer can be easily adapted to control the system."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A linear control system with two variable parameters is considered in this paper. Identification of the state of the basic system is achieved by a high frequency sinusoidal test signal. The magnitude and phase angle of the perturbed output signal are used in two adaptive loops to detect changes in system gain and the location of a nondominant pole. A simple approach to the prediction of interloop coupling is presented. The results of simulating this adaptive system on an analog computer are given."
"A technique for the estimation of the state of a general class of nonlinear systems is discussed. The technique involves linear optimal estimation of the state of a linear approximation to the nonlinear system. The linear approximation to the nonlinear system is derived solely from the nonlinear differential equations and the noise-corrupted observations of some of the components of the state vector of the nonlinear system. An example of optimal estimation of the current position and velocity of a low earth-orbit satellite, using range, elevation and azimuth observations from a ground tracking station, is discussed. Numerical results from a digital simulation of the example are presented."
"A new approach to the synthesis of linear multivariable control systems is presented. The main result demonstrates how a multivariable cross-coupled process within a closed loop may be transformed such that single-variable synthesis tools may be used to design the controller. Cross-coupled processes may be represented by a matrix equation. The new approach uses elementary transformations to diagonalize the polynomial matrix representing the open-loop process. This yieldsnuncoupled variables which describe the process. Closed-loop diagonalization is obtained by using a pro-multiplier matrix to relate the uncoupled variables to the physical variables of the process. This premultiplier matrix is a precontroller in the physical system. It allows synthesis to be carried out in the uncoupled coordinate system to get the physical coordinate system controller. The complete controller is designed using time or frequency single-variable synthesis techniques, and the uncoupled variables are handled one at a time during this phase. A second result follows from the main result. Disturbance inputs to the multivariable process are minimized just as they are in the single-variable case."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper considers the minimum time regulator problem for a linear time-invariant discrete system with input and state variable constraints. The state space techniques are used throughout. Conditions for controllability of the system are examined in detail and an algorithm for generating optimal controls is given such that computor implementation is possible for higher-order systems."
"This paper is concerned with the relationships between time and frequency domain descriptions of linear, time-invariant systems and with the evaluation of the effects of feedback on such systems. A new expression for the transfer function of a system described by a set of first-order differential equations is given; this expression not only relates the poles and zeros to the eigenvalues of matrices but also makes it possible to compute the transfer function without matrix inversion. The effects of state variable feedback on controllability, observability, and pole-zero configurations are discussed and the effects of feeding back the output and its derivatives are considered. The application of these ideas to an optimal control problem is sketched and methods of extending them to the multi-input, multi-output case are examined."
"This paper presents an approximate analysis of oscillating servo systems with random inputs. The power spectrum relations for these systems are established by extending the dual-input describing function method. The analysis shows that the system exhibits a quasi-linear mode of operation similar to that previously shown to exist for a sinusoidal input. Distortion components resulting from the closed loop system are examined, and conditions for quasi-linear operation (small distortion) are given in terms of signal level and bandwidth. Some analog computer results are presented to demonstrate the applicability of the quasi-linear theory to the random input case."
"This paper presents a new technique for generating an approximation to the minimum performance functionalVfor optimization of dynamic systems. Convergence of the technique is shown and the results from two example systems are given. The resultant approximationVis shown to be useful over a significant region in state space for 1) generating a near optimal control law, 2) determining regions of stability, and 3) defining useful bounds associated with the system performance."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe in detail a computational procedure for solving optimal control problems called state increment dynamic programming. This procedure has computational requirements which are considerably less than those of conventional dynamic programming, but it still retains the general applicability and other desirable features of the conventional method. In one example the reduction in high-speed memory requirement is from l0\\deg to about 100 locations. Similar reductions in computing time can also be obtained in some cases. The new procedure, like the conventional method, is based on iterative application of Bellman's principle of optimality. It differs from the conventional method in the choice of the time interval over which a given control is applied. Instead of using a fixed interval, the new procedure determines the time interval as the minimum time required for at least one of the state variables to change by one increment. As a result of this choice of interval, the next state for any given control is known to lie within a small neighborhood of the point at which control is applied. By using this result it is possible to compute optimal control in units, called \"blocks,\" that cover a relatively long time interval but a small distance along each state variable. By using only one or two high-speed memory locations per state in the block-an almost arbitrarily small number of locations-it is possible to compute optimal control throughout the block. Specialized computations near the boundaries of the block permit the optimal trajectories any desired degree of freedom in passing from block to block. This technique has been applied in a computer program which calculates minimum fuel trajectories for supersonic (Mach 3) aircraft under a variety of conditions and constraints. The basic program can be used both for a detailed evaluation of an aircraft design and for real-time control of an aircraft."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper presents a generalization of Hurwitz, Nyquist, and Mikhailov stability criteria for investigations of relative stability of linear-feedback systems. The generalization utilizes the Chebyshev functions, which greatly simplify the analysis procedure and make it convenient for computer applications. The use of the generalized stability criteria is illustrated by examples."
"Two theorems are introduced that relate to the approximation of minimum magnitude real and complex conjugate roots ofnth-order polynomials. These approximations are given in terms of all the coefficients of the polynomial. Tables of the accuracy of the approximations to the minimum magnitude real and complex conjugate roots are presented. Also presented, is an example of an application to a linear control system."
"It is shown that an adjoint to a discrete-time system having all the properties of the adjoint to a continuous-time system cannot be found."
"The problem of guiding one state of a linear dynamical system to a prescribed rms terminal accuracy in the presence of injection, measurement, as well as engine-mechanization errors with a minimum average effort, is considered. Orbit corrections are assumed to be mechanized in the form of discrete velocity increments whose areas are proportional to the predicted miss distance. Equations are derived for computing the feedback gains as a function of the correction times. It is then shown how the spacings between successive corrections can be optimized. This is done by outlining a computation procedure based on the theory of dynamic programming. The optimum solution includes the effect of the loss of information caused by the mechanization error. The results are applied to a simple but illustrative example that approximates the terminal phase of an interplanetary trip. A numerical study is made relating the number of corrections and the required amount of propellant for various terminal accuracies and mechanization errors with typical initial errors. The computer results make evident the improvement of the multiple correction strategy over the design of using only one correction, and seem to indicate that the improvement obtained using more than three to four corrections is negligible. Moreover, it shows that there is an optimum number of corrections for a given size of mechanization error."
"This paper is concerned with a graphical method for the determination of bandwidth and optimal feedback gains for linear systems employing a quadratic form performing index. Using a fundamental frequency-domain condition of optimality developed by R. E. Kalman [1], the gain and bandwidth estimates are found from a logarithmic amplitude vs. frequency plot of the optimal system return difference. The method can be extended to systems with multiple outputs. An attempt is made to provide some insight into the connection between classical and optimal design, and into the price of optimality in terms of bandwidth."
"Minimum time trajectories of a vehicle subject only to normal accelerations are studied. Optimum control of both the normal acceleration and normal acceleration rate are considered. Extremals are exhibited for either type of control, and the optimum is found for normal acceleration control. Extremals with unusual forms which are very far from time optimum are exhibited for both problems."
"The objective of this paper is to illustrate the limitations of the generalized Popov Theorem in establishing the stability of a loop containing a single nonlinearity, and to use the Liapunov Theory to give a new frequency domain stability criterion for such systems. The new criterion differs from Popov's in that less restrictive assumptions are made on the linear part, and stronger assumptions are made on the nonlinearity. In this paper, it is assumed that the nonlinearity is monotone increasing. The approach used here is quite general, however, and in a companion paper various other restrictions are considered."
"This paper presents a method for the improvement of a general class of two-adjustment, self-adaptive systems. The technique is based upon the use of existing, external signals. By the incorporation of an auxiliary adjustment prediction matrix, a hybrid scheduling and plant adaptive system is developed. This approach affords a relatively simple method for the possible improvement of a commonly discussed class of self-adaptive systems. It is shown that the over-all system's figure-of-merit can be improved with such a scheme."
"Simple practical circuits for on-line averaging of continuous quantities are given. The paper also explains why a simple averaging circuit such as a first-order exponential lag provides good averaging in spite of the fact that its impulse response is a very poor approximation to that of the ideal finite-time averaging circuit. It is concluded that an averaging circuit should be chosen on the basis of a step response."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new form of rate gyroscope based on interaction between standing sonic waves in solid media is described. One form of the device, using a solid, ring-shaped medium, is analyzed in order to establish the relationship between the modes of the two waves that must exist to produce sensitivity to angular rate. In addition, the analysis establishes estimates for the angular-rate sensitivity in terms of the basic instrument parameters. The theoretical feasibility of the proposed instrument has been confirmed by experiments conducted on a simple laboratory model. The results indicate that strain-induced and mass unbalance cross-coupling between the driving and sensing waves can produce uncertainty in the instrument output signal. These unwanted cross-coupling effects are the practical limitation on the instrument performance at the present time. Methods for their reduction and cancellation are discussed for the ring-shaped transducer. The problem of unwanted cross-coupling seems to be present in sonic gyroscopes, in general, and is not unique to solid media alone. In particular, some preliminary experiments with fluid devices show them to have similar cross-coupling problems. In conclusion, the major advantages over conventional rate gyroscopes of instruments based on interaction of sonic waves appear to be: low power consumption, long life, (potentially) high reliability, ruggedness, and low cost. These advantages must be weighed against the primary disadvantage of the lower precision that is available at the present state of the development."
"The requirements for insuring the stability of the loop formed when external feedback is applied to a two-degree-of-freedom gyro are determined. The method of analysis also suggests the means for increasing the damping of the nutation of a precessible two-degree-of-freedom gyro when it is used in a free mode."
"In the past, quadratic optimization problems have been examined from both the time and frequency-domain points of view but there has been little effort devoted to comparing these two approaches. The purpose of this paper is to spell out in detail how one can solve Kalman's regulator problem in the frequency domain and to compare the forms of the equations defining the optimal compensators obtained in this way with those obtained by Kalman. In particular, the equivalence between spectral factorization and solving for the steady-state solutions of a matrix Riccati equation is established, and the frequency-domain implications of optimality are examined."
"Control of a linear plant, with bounded control input, may be implemented by constructing a control law generator which produces the optimal control as a function of the state variables. If the plant parameters differ from their nominal values, then maintaining optimal control by changing the control law generator is inconvenient since the control law is usually nonlinear. It is shown that in certain cases optimal control can be maintained without changing the control law generator. This is accomplished by using a linear transformation of state variables as the input to the control law generator. The variations of the plant are compensated for by changing the linear transformation. The conditions under which this is possible are established in this paper. The advantage of this system is that a change in a linear function is easier to implement than a change in a nonlinear function. It is shown how this system can be incorporated into an adaptive system which compensates for plant variations."
"This study examines the effect of a transformation of variables upon the efficiency of a mathematical model in describing a real physical plant for purposes of optimal control, performance prediction, or both. The performance is defined by a generalized quadratic criterion of the minimum energy, minimal endpoint error type, and the plant to be controlled is assumed to be linear time-varying (at least in the small). The model is taken to be linear, but constant coefficient. It is shown that a \"suitable\" model may not exist if the plant is represented in the linear vector space most natural to physical reality, whereas such a model may exist if the plant behavior is mapped onto another linear vector space."
"This paper discusses optimal and suboptimal control policies which transfer second-order systems to the origin while minimizing some function of control effortf_{0}^{T}\\phi[u(t)]dt. The time of controlTis specified only to the extentT\\leq\\bar{T}, where\\bar{T}is the given upper bound on control time. Control systems with unequal negative real poles are considered. A computational scheme which yields the optimal control policies for these systems is developed, and suboptimal policies are then derived. The effects of suboptimal policies onf_{0}^{T}\\phi[u(t)]dtare also evaluated."
"Sensitivity methods of mathematical programming may be used for controlling a constrained sample-data process. This paper develops a controller for the economical dispatch of a group of hydroelectric power plants. The power plant and transmission system models are described, including the constraining relationships such as maximum and minimum plant ratings. A brief description of the gradient method employed for determining optimum schedules is offered, as well as a description of the technique for generating the matrix of feedback coefficients for the system state variables. The condition of indeterminacy (degeneracy) is described and discussed. Numerical examples of control simulation are offered."
"This paper describes a method of analyzing large, multiple-loop control systems which can be represented by simultaneous, linear, first-order, differential equations. The eigenvalues of the system are found using the QR transform. Next, the sensitivities of these eigenvalues to the system's parameters are found from the normal and transposed eigenvectors of the system. Results from a 51st-order system to which this method has been applied are given as an example."
"A method of self-optimization using system models to compute error-criterion gradients in a parameter space is extended to time-varying systems. When the parameters are permitted to vary only slowly, the gradient computer is similar to that used for stationary systems of fixed configuration. When the parameters vary more rapidly, it is found that only the gradient with respect to the plant input function is meaningful. This influence function is obtained as the output from a model which can be defined whether or not a state-variable representation for the plant is known; a procedure for computing optimal control functions in a variety of linear and nonlinear systems is thus obtained."
"In this paper, the theory of games and statistical decisions is applied to the problem of synthesizing a controller for a linear discrete time plant in the presence of uncertainty about the value of certain process parameters. Particular care is taken to describe how these unknown parameters complicate the choice of the properties of an optimal control rule. The theory is illustrated by the study of the characteristics of a second-order system."
"Several aspects of the system sensitivity problem are discussed from a function-space viewpoint. The development shows that sensitivity problems in free and forced responses of discrete, continuous, and composite systems can be treated within a common framework. The principal objective of the article is to focus attention on the ingredients required by a sensitivity measure of general applicability."
"By utilizing multidimensionalZtransforms and the discrete form of the Volterra series it is shown how to analyze a large class of nonlinear sampled-data systems and nonlinear difference equations, presenting the solution in terms of the kernels of the Volterra series. The method is shown to be just as applicable when the discrete system is not quiescent with the interaction between the initial conditions and the driving function evidenced by means of the transition matrix. Several illustrative examples are given, and applications of the method are suggested."
"The tendency of many human operators to respond in a bang-bang fashion when controlling some high-order systems is investigated. A three-mode switch is compared with a linear control stick and shown to permit better manual control of some systems with more lag than double integration. In experiments requiring stabilization of a moving base flight simulator programmed as an unstable system (undamped inverted pendulum), operators use the linear control stick in a bang-bang fashion. In place of quasi-linear models for these situations, a simple on-off model for the human is suggested, and the switching lines and error trajectories in the phase plane are presented. The ability to control an unstable system with visual and motion cues is compared."
"A local-sufficiency condition for optimality based on the second variation is derived. The condition is applied to the familiar-linear system and quadratic-criteria case."
"The control problem treated here may be stated as follows: Given\\dot{x} = A(t)x+b(t)u(t)and an initial conditionx(0)find a control functionu(t)such that|u(t)|\\leq 1for0 \\leq t\\leq Tand such that the inner product[x(T), x(T)]is a minimum. A theoretical basis for describing iterative procedures used for computing the solution to this problem is developed. A new computational procedure which does not require storing the control function from one iteration to the next is specified. The hybrid computer mechanization of this procedure is described and analog computer results illustrating the practicality of the method are presented."
"More results are given about a new method of Process Identification. This method, called \"Modulating Functions Method\" had been described in a previous paper by the same authors [5]. It essentially consists of extracting unknown coefficients by using definite integrals involving only recorded functions, and none of their derivatives. New formulas concern time-varying coefficients and pure delays."
"Sufficient conditions for stability are obtained for feedback systems containing a single time-varying nonlinear element whose input-output characteristic lies within a finite sector. An improved frequency-domain criterion is developed. This criterion utilizes information related to the rate at which the output of the nonlinearity varies with time. Examples are provided to demonstrate the particular advantages of the improved criterion."
"This paper presents a method for determining the transfer function coefficients of a system from its frequency response. The method is based on Bush's transfer function decomposition technique and Chen-Shen's response conversion formulas. It involves no prejudgment and therefore has no cumulative error."
"The delay time and the group delay time are often used as measures of the delay. The former is defined as the time required for the indicial response to reach 50 percent of the final value, and can be decided quite easily if the indicial response is given. This is, however, not simply connected with the transfer function of the system or component under consideration. The latter, that is, the gradient of the phase to the angular frequency, is probably the most complete expression of the length of the delay, but is unwieldy since it is a function of the frequency. In this paper, the author defines the equivalent dead time as a new measure of the delay. This is expected to be very useful since it is simply connected with the transfer function and is not a function of the frequency."
"This paper presents an analytical procedure for sensitivity analysis of nonlinear control systems, which is based upon the Krylov-Bogoliubov asymptotical methods and the algebraic concept of the parameter plane analysis of nonlinear systems. In the sensitivity analysis, the effects on self-excited nonlinear oscillations of small amplitude perturbations are considered. The proposed analysis is useful to obtain information about the relative stability of sustained oscillations. The change in the amplitude and frequency of stable sustained oscillations due to small variations in system parameters can be evaluated by this method. The proposed analysis procedure is suitable for simulation on digital computers."
"An iterative technique is proposed to identify a linear system from samples of its input and output in the presence of noise by minimizing the mean-square error between system and model outputs. The model chosen has a transfer function which is a ratio of polynomials in z-1. Although the regression equations for the optimal set of coefficients are highly nonlinear and intractable, it is shown that the problem can be reduced to the repeated solution of a related linear problem. Computer simulation of a number of typical discrete systems is used to demonstrate the considerable improvement over the Kalman estimate which can be obtained in a few iterations. The procedure is found to be effective at signal-to-noise ratios less than unity, and with as few as 200 samples of the input and output records."
"The question of whether or not a givenk-dimensional subspaceVof Rnis reachable by trajectories of a linear control system is examined in this paper."
"When timing jitter is present in a sampled-data system, it is important to be able to calculate the error introduced by the jittered sampler. However, a detailed statistical description of the jitter is not usually available to allow the determination of jitter error and the optimum filters. This paper calculates bounds for such error. For single channel sampling, bounds are obtained for such cases where the jitter is independent from sample to sample and where the jitter is correlated. An error bound for a special case of band-pass sampling using two samplers is also derived. In all cases, the signal is assumed to be properly bandlimited, so that, in the absence of jitter, the system is free of error. The final expressions of the error bounds depend, regardless of other jitter statistics, only on the type and the variance of the jitter."
"A feedforward control scheme is synthesized for control of final product conversion in a train of continuous stirred-tank reactors. The control is achieved by temperature manipulation in the latter reactors and utilizes a continuous conversion measurement within the train. The control scheme is developed in terms of difference equations which are suitable for implementation on a digital control computer. As a specific example, the styrene-butadiene-rubber process is considered in detail and the control is evaluated by a digital computer simulation."
"A technique is described, involving integration by parts, for constructing Liapunov functions for a class of third- and fourth-order differential equations. The procedure makes use of a number of \"differential moments\"M_{n} = \\int\\min{t_{0}}\\max{t} (d^{n}x/dt^{n})L[x]dt, whereL[x] = 0is the differential equation under consideration. The moment equationsM_{n}=0 (n=0, 1, 2, ...)are manipulated to obtain a single expression[V(x,\\dot{x},\\ddot{x},... )]\\min{t_{0}}\\max{t} = \\int\\min{t_{0}}\\max{t} k(x,\\dot{x},\\ddot{x}...)dt. Conditions are applied to the functions involved inL[x]so as to makeVpositive definite andknegative semidefinite, in which caseV(x,\\dot{x},\\ddot{x} ... )will be a Liapunov function forL[x]=0."
"This paper considers the class of detection problems having two inputs containing a common (signal) component. If a complete statistical description of these inputs is available, then well-known parametric techniques yield optimum detectors. If less is known about the inputs, various nonparametric schemes can be utilized. It is usually assumed that the inputs are stationary, but it is often possible to consider nonstationary inputs which can be regarded as stationary during any given test interval (quasi-stationary). Under these conditions, adaptive procedures may be devised to estimate some parameter associated with the input processes, permitting adjustment of detection threshold. In this paper adaptive parametric detectors of this type are analyzed and compared to a nonparametric detector [polarity coincidence correlator (PCC)] under the assumption of quasi-stationary inputs. In addition an adaptive PCC is shown to be nonparametric for a wider class of input processes then the original PCC and is at least as efficient as the original PCC under the restricted input assumptions. Although the parametric detectors are superior when used with the input processes for which they were designed, the nonparametric detectors are easier to implement and can be markedly superior under departures from input assumptions."
"This work presents an adaptive approach to the problem of estimating a sampled, stochastic process described by an initially unknown parameter vector. Knowledge of this quantity completely specifies the statistics of the process, and consequently the optimal estimator must \"learn\" the value of the parameter vector. In order that construction of the optimal estimator be feasible it is necessary to consider only those processes whose parameter vector comes from a finite set of a priori known values. Fortunately, many practical problems may be represented or adequately approximated by such a model. The optimal estimator is found to be composed of a set of elemental estimators and a corresponding set of weighting coefficients, one pair for each possible value of the parameter vector. This structure is derived using properties of the conditional mean operator. For Gauss-Markov processes the elemental estimators are linear, dynamic systems, and evaluation of the weighting coefficients involves relatively simple, nonlinear calculations. The resulting system is optimum in the sense that it minimizes the expected value of a positive-definite, quadratic form in terms of the error (a generalized mean-square-error criterion). Because the system described in this work is optimal, it differs from previous attempts at adaptive estimation, all of which have used approximation techniques or sub-optimal, sequential, optimization procedures [12], [13], and [14]."
"The \"direct method\" of Liapunov is utilized to obtain an upper bound on dynamic (transient and steady-state) quantization error in digital control systems. If a linear digital control system is designed such that its motions (solutions) are uniformly asymptotically stable in-the-large, it is shown that its motions are uniformly bounded, in the sense of Liapunov, with the addition of quantization in the presence of any finite excitation. A quadratic form Liapunov function is used to evaluate an upper bound, on the domain of uniform boundedness of solutions, in the presence of quantization. The technique is unique, as compared to previous publications, in that an explicit analytical solution is available in general for a dynamic upperbound regardless of whether the system impulse response matrix is overdamped or underdamped."
"This paper describes a learning control system using a reinforcement technique. The controller is capable of controlling a plant that may be nonlinear and nonstationary. The only a priori information required by the controller is the order of the plant. The approach is to design a controller which partitions the control measurement space into sets called control situations and then learns the best control choice for each control situation. The control measurements are those indicating the state of the plant and environment. The learning is accomplished by reinforcement of the probability of choosing a particular control choice for a given control situation. The system was stimulated on an IBM 1710-GEDA hybrid computer facility. Experimental results obtained from the simulation are presented."
"A general formulation of recursive filtering in non-linear problems is presented. The time dependence of variables and parameters to be estimated is described by a set of nonlinear differential equations for which an exact explicit solution may not be available. Another source of nonlinearities may be the relationships between observations and the variables and parameters required for complete description of the observed process. These nonlinearities are handled by first-order perturbation theory plus iteration. The approach used to derive the filter equations is a simple extension of classical least squares or regression theory. Trajectory estimation examples are used to illustrate the techniques."
"Since the Information Dissemination Committee (IDC) was formed, paper processing procedures have gradually changed. IDC meetings are held four months prior to the publication of each Transactions issue to discuss reviews which have been obtained on each paper submitted in the previous four months. On the basis of the IDC discussions, papers are selected or rejected, with appropriate reasons, and the authors are notified accordingly. Thus there may be a three to six month delay between the time when an author submits his paper and the time when he is notified of its disposition. Actually, the schedule has been slightly modified from that stated in our editorial entitled \"Schedules\" which appeared on page 192 of the July, 1963, issue of these Transactions new schedule is presented. With this discussion, we hope that our reviewing procedures and policies have been somewhat clarified, and we hope that more papers will be prepared in the desired format to help hasten the publication process."
"In this paper it is shown that variational techniques can be applied to solve differential games. Conditions for capture and for optimality are derived for a class of optimal pursuit-evasion problems. Results are used to demonstrate that the well-known proportional navigation law is actually an optimal intercept strategy."
"In Part I of this paper a detailed analysis was made of the type of information Popov's Theorem gives about the stability of a closed-loop system containing a single instantaneous nonlinearity, and a new stability theorem, useful when the nonlinearity is monotone, was given. In this part a general approach for generating stability criteria is described and several specific results are obtained. In particular, an improved criterion valid whenfis an odd function is given, and criteria valid whenfis a power law nonlinearity are also developed. Several examples are included to illustrate the theory."
"An experiment is presented which demonstrates the stabilization of a distributed electromechanical interaction by means of feedback. A conducting elastic \"string,\" stressed by a transverse electric field, is shown to exhibit a threshold electric pressure for instability. The transverse displacements of the spring are sampled and these signals used to induce a feedback field which tends to retain the static equilibrium. Open loop measurements are used to determine the distributed parameters. The experimental and theoretical stability limits of a two station system are compared. Using two sampling stations, the electric pressure consistent with stability is increased by a factor of five. The experiment has implication for the stabilization of more complicated electrostatic levitation devices and for the stabilization of certain hydromagnetic equilibria."
"The problem of sensitivity of specified terminal conditions to parameter variations is examined for three types of optimal systems: 1) open loop control 2) closed loop (feedback) control 3) closed loop control for trajectories neighboring an optimal open loop control trajectory. A method is proposed and illustrated for including the specification of sensitivity in open loop design. This is in contrast to analyzing sensitivity after the design has been completed. Open loop controls have some disadvantages from a sensitivity viewpoint. First of all, placing a constraint on the sensitivity will generally result in degradation of the performance. Furthermore, it may not even be possible to constrain the sensitivity to certain parameters. Closed loop controls would be expected to have superior sensitivity properties. Indeed it is proved that for a class of linear feedback systems, there is a finite range of parameter variations which have no effect on the terminal conditions. Furthermore, any bounded changes in some parameters have no effect on the terminal conditions. The results for the linear feedback laws are also applicable to neighboring optimal control systems at least in the case of small parameter variations."
"Optimal control theory is used to design a second-order linear control system with step response that is, in a certain sense, the best possible. The damping ratio of this optimal system is compared with the value(1/\\sqrt{2})of damping ratio that is conventionally assumed to give good performance. For a special class of second-order controlled objects, the optimal system has damping ratio1/\\sqrt{2}."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A communcations system using a carrier at light frequencies requires a guiding medium to assure light propagation from transmitter to receiver. A periodic sequence of lenses can act as a waveguide if the lenses are properly spaced. Lenses made of a solid dielectric such as glass not only absorb some of the light in the dielectric medium itself but also inevitably scatter some of the light out of the beam at the interface between air and dielectric. Since many closely spaced lenses are required to guide the beam around intentional and accidental bends of the transmission path the loss of a lens-waveguide can become quite high. These losses can be avoided if instead of solid dielectrics gasses are used as lens material."
"A thermal gradient gas lens has been investigated experimentally for a variety of conditions and gases. The results in general show good agreement with the theory and indicate that these lenses may be useful in long distance optical transmission lines."
"Schlieren guides consisting of a suitable transverse profile of optical density in a gas may not only be used to continuously focus light beams of Hermite-Gaussian field distribution but also to guide such beams around bends."
"The electromagnetic fields in beam waveguides and Fabry-Perot resonators can be described in terms of axially propagating reiterative beam modes having a cross-sectional field distribution which can be reconstituted at periodoc intervals. In the resonator case, the period of iteration is one round trip of the beam between the two reflectors. The iteration is accomplished either by diffraction effected by Iimiting the beam cross-section or by transformation of the cross-sectional phase distribution of the beam. The first case applies to the iris-type beam waveguides and to Fabry-Perot resonators with plane reflectors and the second to lens-type beam waveguides and to resonators with spherical reflectors."
"Important characteristics of optical resonators and beam waveguides can be inferred from simple ray-optical considerations. The ray theory is susceptible to an extremely convenient algebraic formulation from which a formal analogy in terms of electrical networks is evident. Most of the available results for optical resonators and beam waveguides assume the medium within the structure to be homogeneous and isotropic. In laser applications of optical resonators the medium is certainly inhomogeneous and, furthermore, dispersive. A ray analysis is carried through for these complex cases, and yields some very interesting and general conclusions. In particular, the stability of the ray systems, i.e., discrimination between high and low-loss configurations, is discussed in terms of a generalization of Pierce's criterion. For simplicity, two-dimensional systems are considered; the extension to three dimensions follows directly."
"Rayleigh distance is the axial distance from a radiating aperture to a point at which the path difference between the axial ray and an edge ray is /spl lambda/ / 4. To a good approximation, R/sub r/ = D/sup 2/ / 2/spl lambda/."
"The interdigital filters described by Matthaei consist of resonators formed by coupled-line elements that are /spl lambda//4 long at midband, with alternate ends of the coupled-line elements grounded, and the opposite ends open-circuted. It will be shown in this paper that the coupled-line elements can be made shorter than /spl lambda//4 at midband provided that loading capacitances are added at the open-circuited element ends. In addition to making the filter more compact in one dimension, capacitive loading has the advantage of moving the second pass band (that is, the first spurious pass band) even farther from the first pass band. The shorter the resonators are at midband, the wider the upper stop band, since the second pass band cannot occur until the resonators are somewhat greater than /spl lambda//2 long. The capacitively loaded version retains the other advantages of the version without loading, that is, the relatively large spacings between coupled-line elements permit relatively relaxed manufacturing tolerances, the rates of cutoff and strength of the stop bands are enhanced by multiple-order poles at zero frequency and between the pass bands, and they can be fabricated using little or no dielectric. The wide separation between first and second pass bands should make this filter type useful in parametric amplifiers and in frequency multipliers, the latter application has been demonstrated by Cuccia."
"All-pass microwave networks can be realized by terminating the conjugate pair of arms of a wideband 3-db coupler in identical reactive networks. For transmission in one direction, an ideal circulator can be used with one arm terminated in the reactive network. When the reactive network is a length of waveguide, tapered so that the cutoff wavelength decreases with distance from the input port, characteristics well suited for the equalization of the dispersive characteristics of waveguide sections result. A single linear tapered guide, in particular, is shown to be capable of reducing the time delay variation a length of waveguide to less than 2 percent over the full operating frequency band of the waveguide. A family of design curves is presented giving the slope of the taper for a prescribed degree of equalization over a specified frequency range."
"The filters to be described are called \"trapped-mode filters\" because for their desired resonator mode the energy is trapped within the resonator structure to give a high-Q resonance. However, the side walls of the resonator are partially open so unwanted modes will radiate out the side walls of the structure so as to completely kill or at least greatly dampen unwanted resonances. Thus one of the main objectives in using this type of resonator is to obtain bandpass filters which will give a low-loss pass band, with no other pass bands. Though the principles to be described can also be used with other forms of resonators, in this paper, the resonators described employ the circular TE/sub 011/-mode which has the advantage of providing a higher unloaded Q than would rectangular TE/sub 101/-mode resonators."
"Dielectric objects with free-space boundaries have for many years been known to exhibit resonances in various modes. Since practical applications of this phenomenon in microwave filters have not been made, a study program was instituted to explore the feasibility of dielectric resonators as filter elements, and to derive formulas and obtain experimental data useful for filter design."
"Most microwave TEM filters use stub loading of a transmission line or coupled resonant elements to achieve the desired bandpass or band stop characteristics. In many cases the stubs or resonant elements are of equal line length, and are spaced equally along a transmission line at quarter-wave intervals. The spacing between filter elements in these designs provides isolation from interaction with the fields of adjacent elements but otherwise does not contribute to the filtering characteristics. A theory is presented herein which includes the quarter-wave transmission line spacers, called \"unit elements,\" in an exact design of maximally flat and equal ripple bandpass or bandstop response filters. The theory is applicable to all microwave filter forms consisting entrely of a cascade of quarter-wave lines, quarter-wave stubs, and coupled quarter-wave lines. Each line length element characterized in the theory may be used to create a complex plane pole to augment the filter skirt response. Thus, the new theory is termed \"optimum multipole.\""
"The basic circuit criteria for designing efficient narrowband harmonic multipliers are well established. For the case of the shunt-connected diode, ideal falters are usually specified that pass desired harmonics, reject others by having an infinite input impedance, and provide zero impedance paths for idler harmonics. As the bandwidth of allowable input frequencies is increased, it is desirable to maintain these ideal conditions. The stopband input impedance of most filters is entirely reactive and must change continuously with frequency. Since the ideal filter conditions call for the input impedance to be either infinite or zero, the optimum conditions can be obtained only at discrete frequencies. As in any practical situation, the ideal conditions can be approximated but, in general, bandwidths in excess of 10 percent become difficult to achieve. A common procedure for obtaining wider bandwidths is to use bandpass filters that have sharp cutoff characteristics. This guarantees that the real part of the stopband input impedance is small, but does not provide the ideal input conditions required. In fact, for most designs, interaction between the filter input impedances results in undesirable loading of the varactor and is a bandwidth-limiting factor."
"Integration of a semiconductor diode within a microwave filter circuit may result in superior performance over separate components. This paper will consider several classes of devices which yield electrical and mechanical characteristics impossible to obtain by the separate treatment of individual components."
"At last year's Symposium, it was shown that dielectric-disc loading could greatly increase the useful bandwidth of circular waveguide. Figure 1 is a sketch of a circular waveguide containing spaced high-k dielectric discs which strongly load the TE/sub -11/ (dominant) mode, but have little effect on the TM/sub -01/ mode which normally limits the single-mode bandwidth. Figure 2 shows the frequency range over which modes can propagate for disc loading and for uniform loading. Disc loading offers a much greater ratio of single-mode bandwidth, whose upper limit is then determined by the TE /sub -21/ cutoff. This wider frequency band is useful in the design of various components, particularly the polarization converter to be described."
"The state-of-the art of cw microwave soild state power sources is still rapidly advancing. Progress during the past year to be discussed includes: transistor amplifiers delivering more than 10w at 400 mc and more than 1w at 1 gc, transistor amplifier-multipliers and transistor oscillator-multipliers producing several watts at L-band frequencies (in these devices the transistor acts as both an amplifier or an oscillator, and as a frequency converter), transistor driven varactor harmonic generator chains producing over 1 watt at X-band frequencies and several watts at C- and S-band frequencies, varactor multipliers with efficiencies of 80 percent, compact and rugged sources capable of operating in missile and outer space environments, and electronically tuned sources with tuning characteristics superior to that of reflex klystrons."
"The high frequency transistor equivalent circuit applicable for our consideration is shown in Figure 1. Typical values of the parameters for a state-of-the-art silicon npn microwave transistor are given below: r'/sub b/= base spreading resistance /spl ap/ 10/spl Omega/ C/sub c/ = collector to base capacitance /spl ap/ 0.7 pf r/sub e/ = emitter resmtance /spl ap/ 26/ I/sub E/(ma)/spl Omega/ /spl ap/ 1.3/spl Omega/ at 20 ma C/sub se/ = emitter storage capacitance /spl ap/1/2/spl pi/f/subT/r/sub e/ /spl ap/ 60 pf typ., where f/sub T/ is the frequency at which the common emitter current gain is unity."
"The step recovery diode has been discussed in several papers. Recently, diodes have become availble with attractive combinations of short transition time, long lifetime, low series resistance, and high breakdown voltage. These parameters are all related to the efficiency and power handling capability of frequency multipliers using these diodes. SpeciaI frequency multipliers were constructed to explore the relations among the diode characteristics and the performance of multipliers. To make multipliers suitable for such study, the circuits were constructed to eliminate resonances except at the input and the output frequency even for high order multiplication. Diode current was measured by budding into the multiplier a current sampling resistor immediately adjacent to the diode. The value of the resistance is kept small, and the voltage developed across it is observed with a Hewlett-Packard sampling oscilloscope having a bandwidth of 5 gc. The output circuits of these multipliers were tunable cavities coupled to the diode so that operation could be observed at many different multiples of the input frequency."
"Low-level garnet limiters operating in the coincidence region have previously been reported at 4.2/spl deg/K. These devices, however, operate only within an octave frequency range, which is a function of the 4/spl pi/M/sub s/. For YIG at 4.2/spl deg/K, for example, this frequency range is 2.3 to 4.6 gc. This paper describes the application of impact ionization in bulk semiconductors to obtain low-level limiting, for which no such frequency limit exists in the microwave range."
"We have carried out an analysls and demonstrated experimentally mixing in the 8-millimeter region using non-linear effects in a bulk semiconductor. In a manner analogous to optical heterodyne mixers, it is not required that the element have instantaneous response to the individual RF cycle, but merely that the time constant be sufficiently short for the intermediate frequency output. The barrier capacitance, and small size inherent to point-contact and similar diodes is eliminated, so that this type of mixer will inherently operate at frequencies well into the submillimeter region. Furthermore, It can be easily matched over broad bandwidths."
"Until recently low noise figure mixer diodes for operation above 80 gc were very difficult to achieve and had short life times. This paper describes the procedures and results that evolved from a development program that eliminated these disadvantages. The three major areas to be investigated in developing a low noise figure diode were selection of an intermediate frequency for minimum crystal noise ratio, selection of a semiconductor material that gave low conversion loss, and mounting the diode such that package parasitics have a minimal effect. (The term low noise flgure in this discussion infers crystal noise figure, i.e.. the product of the conversion loss (Lc) and the noise ratio. It is assumed that tie noise figure of the IF amplifier, whether it be transistor, tunnel diode or TWT, will remain relatively constant through the low microwave frequencies. )"
"A parametric amplifier is a device which normally can be tuned only over relatively restricted frequency ranges. One of the basic reasons for this tuning difficulty is the fact that more than one frequenty range is of Importance: In addition to the signal frequency, a pump frequency and one or more sum or difference frequencies must be considered. For example, one could construct a tunable parametric amplifier by using a fixed-tuned broadband signal circuit, a tunable pump source, and a fixed-tuned difference or sum frequency circuit. Or, one could use a fixed-tuned broadband signal circuit, a fixed-tuned pump source, and a tunable difference or sum frequency circuit. A third approach would be to use tunable signal and sum or difference frequency circuits, together with a fixed frequency pump source."
"As a result of both a larger number of microwave functions performed by semiconductor devices and a larger number of functions required in modern systems, it has become highly desirable from both the system and the device standpoint, to fabricate multiple microwave semiconductor devices on a common substrate. The use of multiple devices in a single package has system and reliability advantages, but there is also offered the possibility of improved performance of the microwave components. This results from the elimination of packaging of each individual element and the abillty to pIace the package interface in a more advantageous position in the circuit."
"The advent of the ballistic missile threat has promoted interest in a complex form of RADAR commonly called a \"phased array. \" These RADARs, instead of using a single electrically large antenna such as a parabolic reflector, and mechanically moving it to point the beam, make use of many electrically small antennas (typically hundreds or thousands) and move the beam by varying the relative phasing of these antennas."
"This paper is concerned with the development of a new non-reciprocal, digital phase shifter which combines the rapid switching speeds offered by latching devices and the compactness of a strip transmission line structure. A four-bit. C-band model is described which offers a maximum of 3 percent phase deviation across an 8 percent frequency band with a corresponding figure of merit (degrees of phase shift/db loss) in excess of 500. In addition, the new phase shifter is much smaller than its waveguide counterpart, and is better suited for integration into a compact matrix which may contain many identical phase shifters."
"Recent phased array system requirements for fast switching, latching type phase shifters have prompted considerable interest in the non-reciprocal ferrite phase shifter using a toroidal geometry. The use of the toroidal geometry permits the ferrite to he permanently magnetized in the circumferential direction by passing a current pulse through the toroid. The basic ferrite and driving configuration are shown in Figure 1."
"Latching ferrites are rapidly advancing a new era of solid state devices. Fast switching, light weight, minimal drive requirements, no bulky external magnets are some of the significant characteristics of these devices. This paper deals with the application of latching ferrites to a novel approach for combining polarized input signals. Vertical, horizontal, right circularly polarized or left circularly polarized input signals are combined at a common output by selectively choosing the bit states of a four-bit latching ferrite switch. The heart of the device is a fast switching, low insertion loss, phase stable, temperature controlled, 90 degree latching bit shown in Figure 1."
"This paper describes an X-band latching three-port junction circulator with switching time less than one microsecond, wide bandwidth, and small size. It is particularly well suited for use as the switching element in differential time delay networks and other switching networks required in phased array antennas."
"In many large phase-phase array systems It is desirable to provide RF phase shifting at the input to rows, columns, or sub-arrays of element phase shifters in order to drastically reduce the complexity of the phase control system. The phase shifting may be provided by a high power phase shifter which must necessarily handle all the power that the row, column or sub-array radiates. To provide this high power phase shifting capability, a 115 kw peak, 600 watt average power C-band phase shifter has been developed. The unit is a Reggia-Spencer type of phase shifter capable of 360 degrees of continuous reciprocal phase shift. It is 2.4 by 2.1 by 8.2 inches, and weighs less than 1.5 pounds. This paper covers the design and development of the unit."
"This paper describes a technique for multichannel switching of high microwave power levels, based on an application of waveguide hybrid circuits such as the well known Butler matrix. It operates on the basic principle of dividing the high power input into a number of lower-power parts, then phase shifting these lower-power components to cause them to recombine into any one of the multiple output channels. The number of channels is any binary number, N=2/sup n/, and the total power which can be switched is equal to N times the power handling capability of the phasing components used."
"One of the more promising device configurations for digital ferrite phase shifters is that of a rectangular waveguide containing circumferentially magnetized ferrite toroids of suitable length. Such a structure is shown in Figure 1. A very similar structure, which is more readily amenable to theoretical analysis is shown in Figure 2. Here the ferrite toroid has been replaced by two oppositely magnetized slabs which extend over the complete height of the waveguide. The propagation of electromagnetic waves through waveguides of the type shown in Figure 2 has previously been analyzed by Lax et al, and by Von Aulock."
"The recent need for compact nonreciprocal devices in the UHF region has focused much attention on the three-port junction circulator. This device when polarized above the resonant magnetic field, can be constructed into a compact configuration capable of an electrical performance and size advantage heretofore unattainable with ferrite isolators, duplexers, etc."
"Since the feasibility of Y junction circulators was first reported in 1959, such circulators have been built to operate in frequency bands from 100 mc to the millimeter wavelength range. All of these circulators appear to operate on essentially the same principle. Using this approach the ferrite disc diameter is proportional to the wavelength, While junction circulators have been useful at microwave frequencies because of their simplicity and small size, such circulators at UHF and VHF frequencies have been expensive and inconveniently large because of the large ferrite volume required. This paper reports the development of a new type of circulator for the VHF and UHF bands. The approach utilizes the lumped element techniques which are natural and convenient for this frequency range and as a result the size of the circulator, and ferrite volume, do not increase with the wavelength. Lumped element circulators have also been developed recently in Japan by Konishi. Figure 1 illustrates the size reduction which has been obtained with the new technique."
"Recent advances in the field of high power ferrite devices have permitted the use of microwave duplexing techniques providing reliability and fail-safe protection previously impractical or impossible."
"The narrow ferrimagnetic linewidth exhibited by single crystal yttrium iron garnet forms the basis for several novel microwave devices. These may be divided into two main categories, namely, magnetically tunable filters and microwave limiters. Single crystal YIG spheres may be associated with additional microwave resonators to enhance one of these desired characteristics and to suppress the other."
"Oversize waveguide quasioptical techniques, which have been used in the past to develop many components have not been used to design nonreciprocal ferrite devices at wavelengths as low as 1 mm. These Faraday rotation devices include an isolator, four-port circulator, and modulator. Initial experiments have demonstrated the rotation phenomena and yielded information on ferrite properties at these small wavelengths. In this paper, devices will be described ad experimental data will be given. Previous work on millimeter Faraday rotation devices has been at longer wavelengths and used standard sized waveguide."
"The rapid variation of an impedance shunting a transmission line is a well known technique for switching microwave power. The application of a switching voltage to a ferroelectric material provides a convenient means for rapidly varying an impedance between significantly different states. A multistub transmission-reflection type switch actuated by a switching voltage of 1000 volts has been studied. The operation of the switch depends upon the ability of a ferroelectric variable capacitor to change its capacitance upon application of a switching voltage. A change in capacitance represented by a ratio of two to one results in substantial change in the input admittance (Y/sub n/) of the prototype network shunting the transmission line."
"Recent developments in the field of microwave acoustics have led to the realization of miniature solid state delay devices operating at microwave frequencies. These devices, capable of new functions in terms of length of delay and signal storage time, are finding numerous uses In altimeters, RADAR, and similar electronic systems. The units are particularly attractive in situations where size and weight are of prime importance."
"Microwave acoustic delay lines normally exhibit an output that shows a series of delayed pulses corresponding to a succession of passes through the delay medium. Such a train of multiple pass pulses can be used to advantage in many test equipment applications. In some applications, however, they are highly undesirable. In cw applications they are, of course, prohibited. While complete suppression of multiple passes is practically impossible, effective suppression of multiple pass signals, 30 db suppression, can be achieved in a number of ways."
"The feasibility of exploiting the relatively slow velocity of propagation of acoustic waves in order to delay an electromagnetic signal in the microwave frequency range has been clearly established. Several different approaches in the conversion of the electromagnetic energy to acoustic energy have been shown to be practical. One of these involves the use of a rod of single crystal yttrium iron garnet (YIG) which serves both as the delay medium and also as the transducer to convert the electromagnetic energy to acoustic energy, and vice-versa. A basic advantage of this type of delay line is the ability to vary delay time continuously over a large range by means of a magnetic biasing field. Though considerable progress has been reported in the field of magnetoacoustic delay lines of this type further advances are required in the reduction of insertion loss, increase in the delay time, and a more precise understanding of the phenomena involved. In pursuance of these objectives, experiments have been performed on a magnetoacoustic delay line intended for operation over the range of 200 to 1000 mc. Comprehensive data on insertion loss and VSWR is presented and analyzed. Also, results of bonding two single crystal YIG rods to achieve a longer delay are given."
"Antennas with wide bandwidths have been exploited for many applications. Log-periodic and spiral radiators are examples of structures that can be designed to cover any desired bandwidth. One of the most important uses for these antennas is as feed systems for focusing objectives, typified by the parabolic reflector."
"The paramagnetic material in a conventional TWM is uniformly distributed in a slow-wave structure located in a homogeneous DC magnetic field. The spin distribution-function has a Lorentzian shape which constitutes a fixed relationship between Gain (db) and 3 db bandwidth, namely, B/sub 3/ = B/sub m/ /spl radic/ 3/G/sub db/-3/. Applying an inhomogeneous DC magnetic field, we can overcome this limitation and make gain and bandwidth both independent variables."
"The characteristic impedance and the attenuation of transmission lines supporting a TEM mode can be determined by the following methods: 1 Resistive thin film method (analog computation). 2 Finite difference methods combined with relaxation technique (digital computation)."
"The arc loss of multimegawatt microwave gas discharge duplexers is the subject of this paper. It is shown that the discharge at these power levels can be considered as a Iossy conductor of freed surface area and varying thickness, given by the skin depth which varies with peak incident power. Since the skin depth is always smaller than the discharge container dimensions, the analysis is greatly simplified as compared with other treatments. These small skin depths are always realized in multimegawatt switching applications."
"A radiometer receiver using a superheterodyne circuit has been designed and constructed which detects thermal energy at 600 gc. The design is an extension to submillimeter wavelengths of principles used previously by workers at this laboratory in the design of millimeter wave radiometers. The radiometer was built on contract with U.S. Army Munitions Command, Frankford Arsenal, for field evaluation as a possible means for detection of ground military targets. This paper described the design and performance of the radiometer in viewing a thermal calibrator. Field experiments with the radiometer will be reported at a later time by personnel of the contracting agency."
"Many microwave oscillators operate in a vibrating environment and the effect of this vibration on performance must be known. Test data have shown the vibration in missiles and jet aircraft is not sinusoidal; indeed, the spectrum analysis of vibration shown in Figure 1 indicates that the vibration is better simulated by band limited random noise than by sinusoidal vibration. Diagnosis of trouble is easier to perform and understand if sinusoidal vibration is used. Therefore, it is desirable to predict the frequency modulation of an oscillator operating under random vibration, on the basis of tests made with sinusoidal vibration."
"Fabry-Parot, or open resonators are extremely useful in plasma diagnostics because of the excellent spatial resolution and sensitivity to small changes in electron density and collision frequency which can be achieved with them. Their application to diagnostics has been considered in detail."
"This paper discusses a simple method of measuring the phase shift of circuit components with very high accuracy. The method is substantially independent of loss in the circuit component. This is accomplished by using a systematic technique that eliminates errors due to the usual measuring system imperfections. The method uses a hybrid junction, a dual channel null detector circuit, and a high quality phase shift standard whose design is presented insome detail. Phase shift measurement accuracies of 1 degree have been reliably obtained on components with loss up to 40 db."
"The Stanford 2 mile linear electron accelerator, now under construction, will consist of a straight line array of two hundred and forty 24-megawatt klystron amplifiers, operating at 2856 mc, each feeding four 10-foot accelerator sections made of disk-loaded waveguide. A relativistic bunched electron beam injected at the beginning of the machine will be accelerated to energies up to 20 billion electron volts. The acceleration is achieved through the process of energy transfer from the electromagnetic waves launched by the klystrons in the accelerator sections to the electrons riding on this wave."
"Presents an index of the authors whose papers are published in the conference."
"Presents the front cover of the 1965 G-MTT Symposium."
"Start of Program and Digest."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents an image of the 1963 Microwave Prize Award Certificate presented to Dr. Leo Young."
"The Long Island Chapter of the IEEE Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques hosted the 1964 International Symposium held May 19-21, 1964, at the International Hotel, John F. Kennedy International Airport, Long Island, NY. The success of this meeting was attributed to the well planned program arranged by the members of the Symposium Steering Committee with the aid of their standing committees."
"An exact design procedure is presented for contiguous-band multichannel filters. The procedure is theoretically valid at all frequencies for filters which employ TEM-mode (transverse-electro-magnetic-mode), quarter-wave line networks. The design of diplexing is considered in detail with multichannel filters being realized as a cascade of suitable diplexers. Microwave complementary component filters are shown to fulfill the requirement for the design of diplexing and multichannel filters with theoretically perfect match at all frequencies. A design procedure using component networks with Chebyshev characteristics is given. This allows a narrow crossover region and high isolation to be obtained for a given network complexity at the cost of a slight increase in input-port VSWR (Voltage Standing-Wave Ratio). The design procedure makes use of published tables and does not require a detailed knowledge of synthesis techniques. Experimental results for two diplexing networks, one a complementary and the other a Chebyshev pair, are given in verification of the theory presented."
"The operation of symmetrical circulators is described in terms of the counter-rotating normal modes (fields varying as exp n/spl phi/) of the ferrite-loaded circuits. The rotating modes, which are split by the applied magnetic field, form a stationary pattern which can be rotated in space to isolate one of the ports of the circulator. A detailed field theory of the strip-line Y-junction circulator operating with n = 1 is presented. Experiments designed to confirm the validity of the rotating normal mode description of circulator action in the Y-junction circulator also are presented; these include measurements of mode frequencies and electric field patterns. The results of the field theory are used in a design procedure for quarter-wave coupled strip-line circulators. The results of the design procedure are shown to compare adequately with experimental circulators. Higher mode operation of strip-line circulators is described. The operation of waveguide cavity circulators is shown to depend on the rotating ferrite-loaded cavity modes."
"Operation of a microwave spark gap switch triggered with a short high-voltage pulse is described. C-band power of 1 MW peak and 4/spl mu/s pulse width was switched in less than 10 ns at 100 pps with less than 0.3 dB arc loss in air at atmospheric pressure. Use in a cavity resonator to give an efficient pulse compression circuit is described. Switch recovery and turn off data are given."
"The development of two types of broadband binary 180/spl deg/ diode phase modulators is disclosed. One type uses two waveguide paths with a diode switch in each arm to alternate between RF transmission paths. The phase modulation is obtained by an arrangement of E-plane and H-plane T junctions. The other type of phase modulator makes use of the reflection properties of a diode terminating a transmission line in conjunction with a 3-db coupler or circulator."
"A symmetrical three-port ring network composed of reciprocal T junctions and nonreciprocal phase shifters is analyzed theoretically to determine conditions under which it exhibits perfect circulation. All physically realizable T junctions are considered. It is found that many such junctions, combined with appropriate phase shifters specified by the theory, form perfect circulators. Among these are many cases for which the internal wave amplitudes are small and which require only very small amounts of nonreciprocal phase shift. Circulators designed in accordance with this model may offer appreciable advantages in insertion loss and bandwidth, as well as in mechanical characteristics such as size and weight, and in the possibility of adapting the design for special applications such as high-power capability, high-speed switching, etc. The nature of the model and the method of calculation are summarized."
"A narrow-band waveguide switch with power capability in excess of 8 watts has been designed in WR137 waveguide. j-i-n diodes are used in band elimination filter sections. the attenuation in the reject band is greater than 80 dB over a 10 Mc/s range, and the passband loss is less than 0.5 dB."
"Ferroelectric limiters capable of handling peak input power levels in excess of 25 kW with a small signal insertion loss of 0.5 dB have been built. The measured performance and a theoretical analysis have shown that excellent limiting characteristics can be obtained, and that saturation power output levels ranging from a few watts up to megawatts can be obtained with ferroelectric pellets that can be conveniently fabricated. The limited available material data indicates that ferroelectric limiters will offer their greatest advantage in the HF, VHF, and UHF bands. The theoretical analysis of the expected temperature rise within the ferroelectric pellet has shown that, by proper design, very-high-average power levels also can be handled. A recovery time of less than ten microseconds has been measured."
"A study is presented of theoretical and experimental results of E- and H-plane bends for high-power oversized rectangular waveguide having cross-section dimensions in the range between 1..5 and 2.5 free space wavelengths. It is expected that waveguides having these dimensions will be able to transmit 50 to 100 kW of average power at X-band without water cooling. The transmission of at least 5.0 MW of peak power at X-band without pressurization is also a design objective. Dimensions for bends having low-mode conversion loss were determined by numerical integration of the coupled transmission line equations. The dominant TE/sub 10//spl square/ mode and four spurious modes were considered in these calculations. The results obtained for both constant curvature and sinusoidally shaped E- and H-plane bends are presented. A compact H-plane constant curvature bend is described for which the ratio of centerline radius to waveguide width is equal to 1.48. The measured mode conversion loss to the TE/sub 20//spl square/, TE/sub 30//spl square/, and TE/sub 40//spl square/ modes for an experimental model having a width equal to 2.25 inches was less than -20 dB in the frequency range from 7.0 to 11.0 Gc/s."
"Recent developments in microwave delay techniques employing single-crystal yttrium iron gamet (YIG) are described. In particular, the operation of a two-port, electronically variable-delay device utilizing long-wavelength spin-wave propagation in single-crystal YIG is presented in detail. Specific advantages of this device are transmission-type operation, delay continuously variable from zero to several microseconds by means of magnetic field, and lack of critical dimensions or surface finishes. This form of delay, as well as those due to acoustic-wave and spin-wave/acoustic-wave propagation, have been observed at frequencies from 1 to 10 Gc/s. A comparison of the performances of these delay processes is made, with special attention to insertion loss, bandwidth, frequency limits, and variable-delay range."
"The system takes advantage of the fact that a phase-modulated carrier signal will produce equivalent frequency modulation, where the change of frequency is proportional to the time rate of change of the phase variation. A mirowave carrier frequency, FC, is shifted in a single sideband generator to a frequency, FC+FM. The upper sideband is transmitted through the phase modulating medium and then mixed with the original carrier frequency. The difference frequency FM contains the phase modulation information and, after preamplification, the signal is put through a wide-band limiter-discriminator of center frequency, FM. The discriminator output voltage will be directly proportional to the rate of phase change. To compensate for the time rate of change dependency, the discriminator output is followed by an integrating network (E/sub 0/~1/f) which will produce an output voltage proportional to the phase change only. Calibration is accomplished by imposing a known amount of phase modulation on the sideband modulating signal FM and observing the system output signal. This measuring scheme has been built in the 70 Gc/s band and is capable of following a wide range of phase changes over microsecond periods."
"The Wiener-Hopf technique is used to study the radiation from a parallel-plane waveguide embedded in a homogeneous anisotropic plasma in which the external magnetic field is perpendicular to the direction of propagation and parallel to the perfectly conducting planes of the guide. The incident field in the guide is a TEM wave, which propagates in the positive z direction. The parallel-plane guide terminates at z = 0, causing a reflected field in the waveguide, a radiation field, and a surface wave that is guided along the outer surface of one of the perfect conductors. Expressions are found for these field components, and the results are discussed for the different frequency ranges."
"The technique for interchanging generator and detector in the impedance measurement of microwave one-ports is a useful, known procedure often applied when low powers are indicated. The necessary and sufficient conditions for the validity of such measurements are examined critically and direct extensions of this technique to measurements of reciprocal two-ports are given. A completely separate analysis is necessary when such an interchange is made in the case of an interference bridge which is to be used for the determination of the scattering parameters of arbitrary (active or passive, and reciprocal or nonreciprocal) two-ports. This analysis, presented in detail, results in a new low-power-level version of a method of measuring arbitrary two-ports as outlined in an earlier paper. The measurement technique and the subsequent data analysis of the two versions are found to be identical, except that the two scattering parameters S/sub 12/ and S/sub 21/ appear in interchanged positions."
"A new type of power divider is described which provides two in-phase isolated outputs with a constant arbitrary power division over a wide bandwidth. The derivation of the formulas from which the unit may be deisgned and its performance predicted are given. The bandwidth characteristics of a two-third, one-third power divider are given along with experimental verification."
"The limited power gain of a parametric upper sideband up-converter may be enhanced arbitrarily by allowing additional dissipation of energy at the lower sideband. However, the input conductance of such a four-frequency device will be critically dependent upon the amount of lower sideband energy dissipated. In this paper, we shall consider a varactor diode-type four-frequency up-converter employing a single resonant circuit common to both the pump and the sidebands. The input conductance of this configuration is analyzed in terms of the relative deviation of the pump frequency from the resonance frequency of the common circuit. We show that the input conductance also is seriously affected by the presence of second harmonic capacitance variation such as may occur at high-pump levels. Numerical results have been plotted for a wide range of circuit parameters. Also presented in this paper are the experimental results of measurements performed on such an amplifier, showing good agreement with the theory."
"The design of certain log-periodic microwave circuit elements requires a knowledge of the characteristic impedances of a system of four-coupled strip transmission lines. The system of four strip conductors between parallel ground planes is capable of supporting four different TEM modes which have different characteristic impedances. In this paper, the characteristic impedances of the four modes are determined by a variational method. The variational solution is an upper bound to the exact characteristic impedance of the line. In general, the coplanar strip conductors are located at an arbitrary (but identical) displacement from the parallel ground planes. When the separation between the broadside-coupled strips is precisely one-half the spacing between the parallel ground planes, two of the mode impedances may be determined exactly by means of conformal mapping. The variational solutions are compared to the exact solutions for this special case. Because of the \"cell image\" principle which holds for the problem, the mode solutions presented here also apply to various single- and two-conductor strip transmission lines with arbitrary displacements. As a result, solutions for the following strip line configurations are available from the analysis: a single strip conductor in a trough, or between parallel ground planes; two coplanar strips between ground planes; two broadside-coupled strips in a trough, or between parallel ground planes. An extensive set of curves are presented which show the characteristic impedances of the four modes as a function of the relative dimensions of the strip transmission line."
"A new method of microwave power limiting is described. In contrast to limiters previously discussed, this type limits the power reflected from a ferrite-loaded microwave cavity, the limited output power being coupled into the load by means of a hybrid or a circulator. A characteristic feature of the limiter is that the limiting level may be adjusted over a wide range by a suitable choice of the volume of the ferrite sample. Furthermore, the level may with ease be continuously varied over a wide dynamic range merely by changing the position of the ferrite sample in the cavity. Experimental results are presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"This paper presents equations and design curves for a noninverting frequency converter which will enable the engineer to design efficient, high-level parametric devices using abrupt-junction varactors. In addition, the excellent intermodulation characteristic and extremely wide dynamic range (in excess of 140 dB) of the parametric frequency converters enables their use immediately as low-frequency downconverters or microwave upconverters without any deterioration of other parameters, such as noise figure, in system performance. It has been shown that these abrupt-junction diode devices possess the largest known dynamic range, in addition to being relatively spuria free with respect to intermodulation products produced by the diode nonlinearity, intermodulation distortion being generated in the device due only to gain saturation. The design curves also indicate the maximum conversion efficiency possible with a given abrupt-junction diode. An inflection point for 50 per cent converison efficiency occurs for all diodes. Any additional improvement in pump-to-sideband efficiency greater than 50 per cent gained by adjusting the diode and circuit performance, requires relatively large increases in the diode cutoff frequency and reduction in overall circuit losses. Other design curves include impedance variation with drive powers and the overall limiting output power capability for a given diode. A design example is presented to demonstrate the usefulness of the derived results and design curves. The experimental results obtained with this design have demonstrated a microwave, C band, tunable converter with almost 50 per cent conversion efficiency."
"The effect of a different value of series resistance associated with the varactor in its imbedding at each of the important frequencies present in a one-port parametric amplifier is analyzed. The modified equations for effective noise temperature, amplifier gain and pump power required thus obtained are compared to experimental values measured on a 4.8 Gc/s parametric amplifier. Finally a simple and precise method for adjusting the amplifier to get close correlation between the measured varactor parameters using Kurokawa's method at signal idler, and pump frequencies and the overall amplifier performance is presented."
"Current RADAR systems employing programmed multiple antenna feeds to orient the antenna beam electronically require large numbers of parallel channels operating simultaneously with nearly identical phase-delay characteristics. These channels include active devices such as microwave amplifiers for which phase-delay, as well as gain and power output, must be identical to accomplish high pointing accuracy and maximum power addition. When the system is required to operate over a wide frequency band, all channels must track in phase. This paper describes problems encountered in the development of a prototype transmitter requiring multiple channel phase-delay equality. A new medium power pulsed TWT is described and measurements of its electrical length are discussed. Computer programming which reduced the vast amount of phase information derived from this development is described."
"A transmission line is made of a symmetrical pair of strip conductors, or a single strip and a ground plane, on opposite faces of a sheet of dielectric material. There is computed, to a close approximation, the relations among the dielectric constant of the sheet, the effective dielectric constant of the sheet and the empty space, the shape ratio, and the wave resistance, for the entire range of possible values. These relations are summarized in a graphical chart covering the range of practical interest. The computation is based on conformal mapping of the dielectric boundary on coordinates such that its effect can be most closely evaluated by simple principles. All relations are approximated in terms of ordinary functions (exponential and hyperbolic). Of particular interest is the effective filling fraction of the dielectric material, which depends mainly on the shape ratio and only slightly on the dielectric constant. Explicit formulas are given for analysis or synthesis."
"This paper considers several aspects of the problem of obtaining solid-state microwave maser action at 77.4/spl deg/K. A maser cavity, designed to have a large filling factor, high unloaded Q, and tunability over a two per cent range is described. Using this cavity, a study was made of ruby as a maser material at 77.4/spl deg/K. An important result of this study is the determination of the optimum Cr/sup +++/ concentration for 77.4/spl deg/K maser action. A well-known broadbanding technique was applied to the maser to increase its gain-bandwidth product. Two high-Q microwave cavities spaced three-quarters wavelength apart were placed in front of the maser cavity to produce the broadbanding. The experimental results are given, and the usefulness of this technique as a method of improving maser performance is evaluated. The broadbanded maser had a midband gain of 14.5 dB and a bandwidth of 7.5 Mc/s at a signal frequency of 9.3 Gc/s. Approximately 31 watts of pump power at 23.4 Gc/s were required."
"This paper discusses the physical meaning and prop-erties of the waves defined by [Equation], [Equation] where V/sub i/, and Z/sub i/, are the voltage at and the current flowing into the ith port of a junction and Z/sub i/, is the impedance of the circuit connected to the ith port. The square of the magnitude of these waves is directly related to the exchangeable power of a source and the reflected power. For this reason, in this paper, they are called the power waves. For certain applications where the power relations are of main concern, the power waves are more suitable quantities than the conventional traveling waves. The lossless and reciprocal conditions as well as the frequency characteristics of the scattering matrix are presented. Then, the formula is given for a new scattering matrix when the Z/sub i/'s are changed. As an application, the condition under which an amplifier can be matched simultaneously at both input and output ports as well as the condition for the network to be unconditionally stable are given in terms of the scattering matrix components. Also a brief comparison is made between the traveling waves and the power waves."
"Techniques for the design of magnetically tunable band-stop filters using ferrimagnetic garnet resonators (such as yttrium-iron-garnet spheres) are presented. Design for prescribed response, starting from a low-pass lumped-element prototype filter is outlined. The filter structure consists of a strip line or waveguide with garnet spheres mounted at intervals of approximately a one-quarter-wavelength or three-quarters-wavelength, at the center of the tuning range. Tuning is achieved by varying a biasing magnetic field. Techniques for enhancing the coupling to the garnet-sphere resonators are discussed, and the results of four trial designs which verify the theory are presented. The band-stop filter techniques are shown to also provide a very simple means for measuring the ferrimagnetic resonance linewidth /spl Delta/H of garnet spheres."
"This paper discusses the stability problem, output power, saturation level, and noise figure of Esaki diode amplifiers, and describes design considerations of the broadband circulator type amplifier with a large negative conductance diode. An experimental amplifier with a diode which has a negative resistance of -25 ohms is also described. The amplifier has a 3 dB bandwidth of 20 per cent, 18 dB gain, and a 3.6 dB noise figure including 0.3 dB insertion loss of the circulator. The output level for which the gain is 1 dB lower than the small signal gain is -17 dBm. These experimental results are in fair agreement with those estimated theoreticaly."
"An adjustable microwave delay equalizer is described and the feasibility of using it to provide large amounts of delay over a wide band around 11.2 Gc/s is demonstrated. The equalizer is composed of a metallic rod slanted in a circular waveguide which is fed at one end with a shunt tee connection to incoming rectangular waveguide. An experimental model 1.5 m long provides a linear delay of the order of 45 ns over the 680-Mc/s band from 10.80 to 11.48 Gc/s. The bandwidth, center frequency, and shape of delay characteristic are all adjustable. A similar model can be used for equalization at other frequencies. Theoretical estimation shows that at 6 Gc/s a total delay of 24 ns over a band of 1.2 Gc/s may be achieved with a structure 1 m long."
"An iterative circuit, diode, transmission phase shifter is discussed, having a canonic form that consists, of a length of transmission line symmetrically loaded at its ends by small susceptances whose values are diode controllable. The spacing of the susceptances is chosen so that their reflections are nearly mutually canceling, (about a quarter wavelength if equal magnitude, opposite sign susceptances are used). A change of electrical length of the section of 23/spl deg/, in principle, is obtainable with a maximum input VSWR of 1.04. Eight section, experimental circuits yielded 180/spl deg/ total phase shift with less than one decibel of loss in the L and S bands and peak RF power capability to 15 kilowatts. Operation to 140 kilowatts peak power was achieved with reduced phase shift per section. The transmission phase shifter is believed to be well suited as a phase control element for beam steering of array antennas."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The impedance of the generalized strip transmission line is computed by variational methods. The use of an upper bound and lower bound approximation yields an average impedance as well as a known maximum error. The one-dielectric microstrip line is treated as a limiting case. Losses are considered. Results include those problems which have been solved elsewhere by conformal mapping techniques as special cases."
"The synthesis of a stepped equal-length transmission line structure to a given insertion loss function sometimes leads to a multiplicity of untrivially related solutions. The philosophy of synthesis is explored to understand this lack of uniqueness and a new statement of sufficiency and necessity of synthesis is developed based only on an insertion loss statement. The conditions are developed for nonuniqueness to occur and it is observed that these conditions are particularly prevalent in transmission line couplers. It is precisely the nonuniqueness of couplers that accounts for both the asymmetric and symmetric realizations. The symmetric coupler is generally the more difficult of the two to design and both exact and approximate methods of design are given in this case."
"Realizable band-pass (zero of transmission, i.e., infinite loss, at dc) equiripple gain functions are constructed which permit exact physical realization of systems consisting of cascaded lines and stubs. The problem of the realization of a prescribed load resistance is solved when a dc zero of transmission is present due to a shunt short-circuiting stub. The exact limits of realizable load resistance are given for equiripple band-pass gain functions and a straight-forward method is presented to synthesize any desired value of load between the predetermined limits. The basis of the synthesis technique is the choice of location of the shunt stub in the cascaded chain."
"The problem of the propagation of TM waves in a sinusoidally stratified dielectric medium is considered. The propagation characteristics are determined from the stability diagram of the resultant Hill's equation. Numerical results show that the stability diagrams for Hill's equation and those for Mathieu's equation are quite different. Consequently, the dispersion properties of TM waves and TE waves in this stratified medium are also different. Detailed dispersion characteristics of TM waves in an infinite stratified medium and in waveguides filled longitudinally with this stratified material are obtained."
"The two-slot transmission line, which is the dual of a two-strip line when both lines lie in a plane, is studied experimentally when the metal sheet into which it is cut is bent through angles up to 90/spl deg/. It is found that the bent two-slot line is substantially the dual of a similarly bent two-strip line including a complementary reactive junction network at the bend."
"This paper describes a new type of band-pass filter configuration for multiple-coupled-resonator magnetically tunable microwave filters. For two or more resonators, this configuration, which employs a coupling slot in the common side wall between two strip-transmission lines, results in the smallest possible air gap and, therefore, the least amount of leakage or fringing flux, and the smallest ampere-turns requirement on the bias magnet. Response curves including pass band insertion-loss, bandwidth, stop-band rejection, spurious response levels and bandwidths, VSWR, and the effect of temperature on these characteristics are presented for a two-resonator band-pass filter of the type employing YIG resonators and making use of a ferrite core electromagnet to obtain the bias field. Performance data are also given for an experimental side-wall-coupled three-resonator filter."
"The exact synthesis and design of a broad class of quarter-wave TEM mode filters is presented in a three-step procedure. The theory is applicable to all microwave filter forms consisting entirely of a cascade of quarter-wave lines, quarter-wave stubs, and coupled quarter-wave lines. The exact design of many conventional filter forms that heretofore could only be designed using approximate methods is possible using the techniques and functions described. General approximating functions that give the \"best\" transmission response in a Butterworth or Chebyshev sense are derived. The use of a maximum number of available singularities to augment the filter skirt response leads to a minimum element filter termed \"optimum multiple.\" An optimum multipole design insures the \"best\" possible response for the minimum element and all corresponding redundant element networks. The designer has the freedom of introducing sufficient redundancy to obtain a design that is practical to construct, but which still realizes the optimum response. Judicious choice of network form often results in improved performance and reduced size in comparison with many conventional filter forms. Design procedures are presented that allow the practical realization of distributed filter networks in the form of quarter-wave lines. A design example and experimental results are given to confirm the theory."
"Design theory is presented for strip-line multiplexer channel-separating units which have constant-resistance input impedances so that many units can be cascaded without reflection effects. Each channel unit consists of an interdigital band-pass filter and a band-stop filter which uses parallel-coupled resonators. In order to obtain the desired constant-resistance input impedance, both filters are designed from singly loaded, maximally flat, low-pass prototype filters. A trial design was worked out and constructed so as to have five per cent bandwidth for the separated channel. Excellent agreement between theory and experiment was obtained."
"Broadband circulators have been developed which operate below resonance and cover octave bandwidths in the frequency regions 0.6-8.0 Gc. The interrelationship of voltage standing-wave ratio (VSWR) and isolation between various ports is established without imposing symmetry. The fact that building a three-port circulator is essentially a matching process is used as a basis for a successful experimental development procedure. Empirically determined criteria for broadbanding are reported with particular emphasis placed on the discussion of optimizing saturation magnetization, linewidth, strip-transmission line parameters, and magnetic biasing field. The importance of having a ferrite with low dielectric loss tangent is also discussed. The empirical data are considered in light of theoretical work done in this laboratory and in light of the papers by Bosma."
"Generalized curves are presented which describe the characteristics of the 12 lowest cutoff-frequency modes of an electromagnetic wave propagating down an infinite lossless dielectric rod, surrounded by an infinite Iossless medium of lower dielectric constant. These curves were developed by a computer study particularly to analyze the optical mode patterns generated within the photosensitive portions of the cones of the retina. However, they should also be particularly useful in the study of fiber optics and dielectric microwave antennas."
"A very short carrier pulse propagating in waveguide is subject to dispersion which causes distortion of both the envelope and the carrier wave of the pulse. The results of a stationary phase analysis of the problem are presented and results of experimental work at X band are described. The spectral separation property of the dispersive line which enables it to operate as an elementary spectrum analyzer are discussed and experimental evidence demonstrating this property is presented."
"The Schroedinger perturbation theory is extended to the boundary value problems of guided electromagnetic waves in cylindrical structures containing inhomogeneous, anisotropic, dissipative media. A general variational principle, which reduces to existing restricted forms valid for nondissipative media, is also formulated. These approximation methods evolve in a unified manner from the eigenvalue formulation of Maxwell's equations wherein the wave numbers are the eigenvalues of a linear operator. The properties of the media are restricted only by the requirement that they be independent of the axial coordinate. Perturbation of the backward wave is considered and the condition for nonreciprocal waveguides is stated. Modification of the perturbation method for application to gyrotropic media is outlined and it is indicated that convergence of the perturbation terms is improved in those media, such as the plasma and semiconductor, which permit a Taylor expansion of the susceptibility tensor in powers of the external field. Two specific examples, whose exact solutions are known, are included to illustrate the application."
"A stepped phase-shift approach, employing semiconductor switching techniques in waveguide, is used to achieve frequency translation at microwave frequencies. Stepped phase shift is employed to approximate a continuous or ideal sawtooth phase shift. It has been shown by Fourier analysis that three is the minimum number of phase steps required to achieve frequency translation with suppression of the carrier and first symmetrical sideband. A tunable device using microwave switching diodes in a single port Y junction is described. The diodes progressively switch three lenths of waveguide into the circuit establishing three phase steps. A ferrite circulator is used to create a two port device and a modulator supplies proper diode biases and switching logic. Carrier suppression of greater than 30 dB and first symmetrical sideband suppression of greater than 20 dB was observed; other sideband amplitudes are predictable. A conversion efficiency of -6 dB including the circulator loss was measured and the bandwidth for 20 dB carrier suppression varies from almost one per cent to three per cent, depending on other suppression criteria."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The first portion of this paper related to an examination of the synthesis of cascade transmission line structures providing a polynomial insertion loss function phrased in terms of the cosine of an electrical length. Certain features of nonuniqueness of the synthesis were uncovered which, particularly in the case of couplers, lead to a flexibility in design. This portion of the paper includes a specific examination of couplers and concludes with some general comments on transmission line synthesis."
"Equations are developed for the scattering pattern of an arbitrary array of parallel wires. The wires are assumed to be infinitely long, perfectly conducting, and very small in diameter in comparison with the wavelength. The incident wave is assumed to be TM with respect to the wire axis, but it may have normal or oblique incidence on the wires. The solution includes the interaction effects among all the wires. The far-field scattering patterns are presented graphically for plane arrays, circular arrays, semicircular arrays, square arrays, and other configurations. If a sufficiently great number of wires is present, it is shown that the scattering pattern approaches that of a solid conducting cylinder of the same cross-section shape as the wire-grid array."
"In order to calculate the raditaion from plasmas placed in waveguides it is necessary to know the field produced by arbitrarily moving charged particles in a waveguide. In this paper modal expansions for the vector and scalar potentials due to arbitrarily moving charged particles in a waveguide are derived and provide the extension of the Lienard-Wiechert potentials to a waveguide environment. In addition, for a plasma filled waveguide, a modal expansion is given of the electric field directly in terms of mode coupling with the charge motion. Expressions for the spectral distribution of the radiation are given, both in general and for cyclotron radiation. Some specific results for the H/sub 10/ mode excited in a rectangular guide by cyclotron motion are also presented."
"The effectiveness of using magnetized ferrite toroids in circularly cylindrical guides operating in the TE/sub 01/ mode as elements of a digital phase shifter is investigated. The phase of such a device is controlled by reversing the magnetization of individual ferrite toroids. An analysis of the circularly cylindrical guide containing, coaxially, a ferrite tube is presented for circularly symmetric modes. Some results of computations to determine the optimum tube thickness, mean radius, and effect of frequency and changes in the fundamental constants of the material are included."
"A grid of many fine wires connected in parallel, which completely fills the waveguide cross section, is shown to be useful as a multimode waveguide bolometer. Two such grids with wires that are perpendicular to each other are capable of sampling the power in all modes of propagation below some upper frequency limit determined by the wire spacing. In one case the \"wires\" consisted of metallized glass fibers, and in a second case they consisted of Wollaston wire wrapped tround supporting glass fibers. The wire-grid configuration which evolved from the thin-film bolometer of the same effective area is more stable and reproducible than the latter."
"The impulse response is derived for a simple coupled-mode system in which two modes of propagation are passively coupled. It is found that if one mode is driven with an impulse, the response of the other mode consists of a sharply defined RF pulse, of constant maximum amplitude, whose length increases linearly with both time and distance of propagation. The energy of the coupled pulse is found to approach an equilibrium value as the time (or length) of interaction increases without limit."
"A simple waveguide system has been made for the instantaneous measurement of the magnitude of the reflection coefficient as a function of frequency for the 8.2-12.4 Gc band. Reflection coefficients in the range 1 to 0.001 can be measured on linear scales; above 0.01 the error is less than /spl plusmn/3 per cent, below 0.01 it is estimated to be in the order of /spl plusmn/5 per cent. By using a long line between the unknown impedance and the two wall-current detectors, which act as measuring probes, an audio-frequency voltage has been obtained which is linearly proportional to the amplitude of the unknown reflection coefficient. A third wall-current detector is used as a leveler. The principle is quite simple and can easily be applied for other frequencies or transmission lines."
"This paper contains a theoretical study of the guided waves in a moving isotropic medium. The normal modes which can exist in a circular or rectangular wave guides are found by solving the Maxwell-Minkowski Equations subject to the appropriate boundary conditions. By certain transformations of field vectors, it is possible to change the Maxwell-Minkowski Equations into familiar forms such that the method of vector potentials can be applied to derive complete expressions for the field vectors. The results demonstrate that expressions for the propagation constant and the transverse-wave impedance and admittance in stationary media are modified by terms independent of the guide geometry when the media are moving."
"The optical maser amplifier is treated from the transient analysis point of view using the Laplace transform method as opposed to the conventional sinusoidal steady-state analysis that sometimes leads to inconsistent results especially for the region beyond threshold. Firstly, the wave equations are expressed in terms of laplace transforms, and then the generalized solutions for both the transmission and the reflection mode of operation are derived taking the transient terms into account. Finallly, the inverse laplace transforms are obtained yielding the generalized solutions in terms of real-time functions. In order to emphasize the point of the argument and also to compare the results of the usual sinusoidal steady-state analysis, use is made of the simplest possible model of a one-dimensional system consisting of three media, air, active medium, and air. An incident coherent transverse electromagnetic wave, which falls normally on the surface of the system, is assumed. The generalized solutions derived agree,in the region below threshold, exactly with that of the sinusoidal steady-state analysis obtained previously by other investigators. However, for the region beyond critical threshold, the generalized solutions indicate that the device goes into a state of self-oscillation with oscillation frequencies that strictly coincide with those of the Fabry-Perot type resonator. Thus, the limitation of applicability of the conventional sinusoidal steady-state analysis is clarified. Some remarks are also given on the design problem of optical maser amplifiers in connection with the transient terms involved."
"Electromagnetic fields of a rectangular waveguide with an arbitrarily loaded slab are theoretically analyzed. Eigenvalues for the transmission modes are presented in the form of universal eigenvalue charts. Electric field distributions in the loaded waveguide are obtained theoretically, and they are compared with the results of measurements. Power attenuation is also discussed, and attenuation charts that give the lowest limitation for the attenuation are shown. As an example of application the attenuation characteristic of waveguide resistance attenuators are investigated, and a new interpretation is derived for the phenomena where the curves of attenuation characteristic have sharp peak points."
"Some topics of exchange-coupled spin waves and magnetostatic waves in narrow line width ferrimagnetic materials for electronically variable time delay of microwave signals in the microsecond realm are discussed. The excitation problem is treated by use of transmission-line analogs. A method of excitation of spin waves by microscopic geometries is suggested, and an estimate of its efficiency given. Results of experiments of magnetic wave excitation in axially magnetized YIG rods are presented. Here very strong excitation of signals with high dispersion and microsecond time delay that is a sensitive function of H/sub dc/ were found. These signals possess most of the characteristics predicted for Fletcher-Kittel waves. Other signals, with less dispersion and a much more slowly variable time delay, were also found."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"From the beginnings of microwave engineering until today, filter design has been a persistent and fruitful field for investigation. As this issue of the Transactions shows, interest in microwave filters remains acute, and probably is greater now than ever before."
"A review of recent and current work on microwave filters is presented, and an extensive bibliography of recent articles is appended. The review is largely qualitative and pictorial, rather than mathematical. Among the microwave filter topics discussed are band-pass filters with cascaded lifes or cavities; band-pass and band-stop filters with stubs and parallel-line coupling; low-pass and high-pass filters; the connection between dissipation loss, group delay, and power-handling capacity; delay equalizers; diplexers; directional filters; tunable filters, especially magnetically tunable filters; dielectric-resonator filters; filter techniques applied to semiconductor devices; the connection between filters and directional couplers; filters with open walls; and filters for millimeter waves and higher frequencies."
"There are several advantages to the use of band-stop filters, rather than band-pass filters, in many systems. This is shown to be particularly true when signals at high-power levels must be transmitted or rejected. A formula has been derived which expresses the external Q of each resonator in a band-stop filter in terms of the element values of the normalized low-pass prototype and the parameters of the frequency transformation. The peak power capacity of iris-coupled waveguide cavity filters and TEM filters using capacitively coupled inductive stubs is then determined in terms of the external Q of the first resonator and the dimensions of the resonator. Experimental results given for a waveguide band-stop filter show good agreement with theory."
"An exact general synthesis for the distributed stepped-impedance low-pass prototype filter is presented here. Tables of values of the step impedances of filters having Chebyshev equal-ripple characteristics are given for up to 21 elements over a wide range of bandwidths and ripple levels. The tables are usefuf for the design of short-line low-pass filters, direct-coupled cavity filters, stepped-impedance acoustic or optical filters, impedance transformers, and branched guide directional couplers, as described in the papers of L. Young."
"Exact synthesis procedures are derived for symmetrical three-section and five-section TEM-mode directional couplers. These synthesis procedures are based on the equivalence between the theory of directional couplers and stepped quarter-wavelength filters as previously described by Levy and Young. Explicit formulas for the parameters of three-section couplers are presented. A realizable insertion-loss function is derived for the five-section coupler resulting in an equal-ripple response. Although this function has an equal-ripple characteristic, it is not expressible in terms of Chebyshev polynomials. Results obtained for the five-section coupler show considerable improvement in bandwidth over a three-section coupler. For example, a five-section coupler of -3 /spl plus mn/ 0.5 dB has a bandwidth of 9.6:1 as compared with 5.8:1 for a three-section coupler of -3 /spl plus mn/0.5 dB. A five-section coupler of -10 /spl plus mn/ 0.5 dB was designed on this theoretical basis for the 555-4000 Mc band, and the measured shows good agreement with the theoretical coupling sponse, yielding a minimum directivity of 18.0 dB at 3.7 Gc."
"New equal-ripple polynomials were determined and applied to the synthesis of symmetrical TEM-mode coupled-transmission-line directional couplers (using exact methods). Tables of designs for symmetrical couplers of three, five, seven, and nine sections having mean couplings of -3.01, -6, -8.34, -10, and -20 dB, and having several equal-ripple tolerances in the coupling band are presented. Symmetrical maximally-flat directional-coupler designs having three, five, seven, and nine sections are also presented to complete the tables."
"An exact theory of interdigital line networks and related coupled structures is presented. The theory of parallel-coupled line arrays is reviewed briefly, and the derivation of exact equivalent circuits from the impedance matrix using modem network synthesis techniques is discussed. A simplified theory of equivalent coupled structures is introduced in order to avoid the lengthy analysis required when using the impedance matrix approach. Equivalent networks for the interdigital line are obtained by inspection, using a transformed capacitance matrix associated with the two-dimensional geometry of the conductors and ground planes. The techniques presented are simple to apply and allow a given transmission response to be obtained in a variety of line configurations. A practical design example and experimental results are given to illustrate the simplicity of the approach, along with general criteria for the design of practical filter networks with optimum transmission characteristics. The paper is directed toward the design of interdigital band-pass filters; however, the techniques presented can be used to analyze and design a much broader class of microwave networks. The relationship of the exact theory to existing approximate theory is discussed."
"A two-resonator, narrow-band waveguide filter with a very wide stop band is described. Each resonator cavity has one side wall which is entirely open except for a bifurcating E-plane septum. Energy in most modes tends to radiate freely out of the open end of each resonator to absorbing material; however, energy in the fundamental TE/sub 101/-mode is trapped in the resonator structures to give high-Q resonances such as are typical of conventional solid-wall resonators. Thus, a primary pass band is obtained similar to that of filters using conventional cavity resonators, but the many higher-order pass bands usually found in cavity-resonator filters are largely eliminated because the higher-order-mode cavity resonances are damped out. This type of filter attenuates unwanted signals mainly by reflection. For applications where a low-input VSWR is desired in the pass band, a bifurcated section of guide backed by absorbing material is also used in the input waveguide so as to tend to absorb the input energy at frequencies above that of the pass band."
"Band-pass filters are described which utilize a novel type of resonator which has been named a \"'trapped-mode resonator.\" This type of resonator uses a structure which is open on its sides so that energy in all but a single desired mode tends to radiate out to energy-absorbing material. However, energy in the desired resonator mode is trapped within the structure and a high-Q resonance occurs, such as is typical of conventional microwave cavity resonators. The use of resonators of this type makes possible the design of band-pass microwave filters which have a pass band similar to that of other multiresonator microwave filters, but without the many unwanted pass bands which are typical of microwave filters. The particular type of filter discussed utilizes the circular TE/sub 011/ mode. Several experimental filter structures of this type were constructed, and the results of laboratory tests are described."
"The insertion loss vs. frequency characteristic of equal-element band-stop filters is derived for large as well as small degrees of dissipation, and for any number of resonators. These results are presented as curves for one through eight resonator filters. The equal-element band-stop filter, for small dissipation, is shown to have the lowest pass-band loss for a specified stop-band characteristic of all possible filters that can be represented by a low-pass prototype. Design procedures and examples are explained for waveguide and TEM band-stop filters. This includes selecting the optimum number of resonators, the resonator lengths, and the coupling reactance. Experimental results on C-band waveguide and UHF coaxial filters are presented; the results are in good agreement with the theory. This approach makes possible complete prediction of the filter response and results in lower pass-band loss than could be obtained with previously used approaches."
"Envelope limiters are used in such applications as FM demodulation and power leveling. Recently, the envelope-limiting properties of yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) filters were reported for the special cases of unmodulated and pulsed input signals. Measured data is presented hereon the response of a YIG limiter to AM carriers having modulation index of the order of 50 percent. Sinusoidal, square-wave, and low-pass noise modulating signals were used in the measurements. It was found that a YIG filter will give good envelope Iimiting for modulating frequencies in the submegacycle range. At these low frequencies the carrier and the side frequencies are not limited selectively. At higher modulating frequencies where the limiting is frequency selective, the YIG filter will not remove the variations. In fact, in the particular filter tested, the modulation index was increased, rather than decreased, at modulating frequencies greater than about 750 kc/s. A graph is given showing the measured factor of reduction (or increase) of modulation index, as a function of modulating frequency. The response of the limiter as a function of carrier frequency, modulating frequency, and input power is shown by oscilloscope displays produced by sweeping the carrier frequency or input power. In addition, selected photographs of output envelope waveforms are given."
"A general design procedure for quarter-wavelength inhomogeneous impedance transformers having approximately equal-ripple performance is presented, based on the simplifying assumptions that the relative impedance of two waveguides of slightly different widths is a constant and that tan /spl Theta//sub i/= k/sub i/ tan /spl Theta//sub 0/ in the vicinity of /spl Theta//sub i/ and /spl Theta//sub 0/ = 90/spl deg/. The calculation of the design parameters depends on the fact that the insertion-loss function can be expressed, in closed form, in terms of the unknown parameters. When this is identified with the permissible equal-ripple function, a set of simultaneous equations in the unknown parameters results. The solution of these equations is approximated by the solution to the corresponding homogeneous transformer problem. Thus a set of simultaneous linear equations in the small differences can be obtained which provides an approximate solution to the problem. An experimental design is described and the resulting data are presented."
"The scattering of a TM surface wave by a metallic strip above a dielectric-clad ground plane is investigated both theoretically and experimentally. An expression for the Green's function which can be evaluated numerically is developed for the usual case for which the energy of the incident surface wave is \"lightly trapped\" by the dielectric. Using this expression, a variational formula for the reflection coefficient of the strip is developed, and the Rayleigh-Ritz technique is applied to yield approximate values for the reflection coefficient and surface currents of the strip. Numerical results are presented and compared with experimental values measured on a polystyrene-coated aluminum table. Strips measuring up to one wavelength in width positioned up to one wavelength above the dielectric are considered, and agreement between theory and experiment is found to be good. A thorough description of the experimental techniques is presented."
"The characteristics of electromagnetic waves propagating in a semiconductor filled rectangular waveguide in the presence of a transverse magnetic field are studied. It is shown that only TE mode waves having y-independent field components (y being the direction of the steady magnetic field) and anomalous modes having all six field components can propagate. The propagation constant of waves characterized by a sinusoidal y dependence of fields is derived. Asymptotic expressions for the fields and the propagation constant are then obtained for the limiting case of a small external magnetic field and some recent experimental results are analyzed in this context."
"The description of the beam-waveguide in terms of ray optics and wave optics is combined to describe the performance of waveguides with predetermined bending radii. We require that the beam in a bend of the beam-waveguide departs from its axis no more than an amount equal to half its spot size. This requirement is sufficient to determine uniquely the spacing and focal length of the lenses. It turns out that it is advantageous to space the lenses close to four times their focal length, in order to enable the waveguide to direct a light beam around sharp bends. However, transverse random displacements of the lenses also cause the beam to depart from the axis of the guide. This departure becomes very large if the lens spacing approaches four times the focal length. A guide which is designed to negotiate sharp bends is more seriously affected by random displacements of the lenses. Further analysis of imperfections and experimental work will be required before a final design choice can be made."
"Reciprocal ensembles of coupled transmission lines have been studied for many years using matrix techniques. In this paper, the lossless multiconductor transmission line model is extended to permit a description of gyromagnetic coupling effects. The novel ingredient which allows such an extension is the incorporation of distributed gyrators into the elemental line-length prototype. These gyrators provide antireciprocal coupling between the ensemble conductors. The amount of coupling is expressed by a geometry-dependent factor which in effect measures a given structure relative to an ideal Faraday rotator in the same medium. The gyromagnetic coupling factor, in conjunction with the derived expressions for mode propagation factors and characteristic impedances, provides a means of interpolating between the known limits of no coupling and ideal Faraday rotation. General relations are derived for two-line systems and for symmetrical, quasi-TEM three-line systems."
"The theory of tunnel-diode mixer operation is briefly reviewed. It is shown how the available gain, minimum noise figure and output conductance can be expressed in terms of the bias and local oscillator voltages. A numerical analysis is then carried out for a large number of pairs of these voltages. The results show that there are two modes of low noise operation, both using approximately the same bias voltage which gives minimum noise when the diode is used as an amplifier. The minimum noise figure of one mode approaches that of the amplifier and is accompanied by very high gain, critical adjustment, and a vanishingly small local oscillator voltage. The more practical second mode on the other hand, uses a local oscillator power of about -7 dBm and gives a conversion loss lower than that obtainable from the best L-band varistor mixers, but with a slightly poorer noise figure. The analysis could be applied equally well to optimize backward diode converters using megacycle intermediate frequencies in which only the second mode occurs."
"A number of structures of the slot-coupled cavity chain type are used in high-power traveling-wave tubes. In these, different relationships between the structure pass bands and the cavity and slot resonances are found to exist. By the construction of equivalent circuits which have patterns of current flow similar to those in the real structures, this behavior is calculated and the importance of the partial nature of the coupling and the relative alignment of the slots is illustrated. It is possible to obtain from the circuits presented a qualitative understanding of the general behavior of structures of this type."
"The generalized numerical solution of Laplace's equation in two dimensions is dealt with, subject to boundary conditions imposed by conducting surfaces and dielectrics which are permitted a limited amount of inhomogeneity. It is shown how this solution may be applied in the determination of the properties of TEM-mode transmission lines including the equivalent circuits of simple obstacles in these lines. The theory is illustrated with a number of examples, certain of which do not appear to have been previously treated theoretically in the literature. While certain of the examples serve mainly to show the power of the technique, others are given very detailed treatment with the production of much new design data."
"Essentially, waffle-iron filters are waveguide low-pass filters with wide stop bands above their pass bands. The L-band waffle-iron filter discussed in this correspondence was originally developed at the Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park, CA, USA. Subsequent reports and modifications have been presented by Young and Schiffman [1963]. This correspondence serves to supplement the existing information on waffle-iron filters, particularly as to their high power characteristics and the modifications required to achieve the high power characteristics."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Florida West Coast Chapter of the IEEE Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques hosted the 1965 Symposium held May 5-7, 1965, at the Jack Tar Harrison Hotel, Clearwater, FL, USA. Credit for the technical significance of the meeting must go primarily to the authors of the excellent papers, some of which appear in this issue. The committee which planned the Symposium also deserves credit for coordinating the technical, social, and recreational events so that everything moved smoothly. The members of the Symposium Steering"
"The forty-eight technical papers of the 1965 MTT Symposium provide a great fund of detailed information of the state of the microwave art. In a more general sense, the content of the program also shows unmistakable trends which we must not ignore. Before devoting our attention to the specialized presentations to follow, let us pause to consider where we are headed in microwave theory and techniques. This is our eleventh symposium, and the microwave art is now about twenty-five years old. The record of those years is something to be proud of in scientific applications, in engineering, and in business enterprise---except perhaps for some recent microprofits."
"The analysis of the gas lens presented in an earlier paper is extended to a more complete ray optics description. The focal length and principal surface of the gas lens have been computed. It is found that the focal length reaches a minimum as a function of flow velocity and that the two principal surfaces coincide very nearly, making the device approximately a thin lens. The gas lens is not free of distortions. The principal surface is not a plane, and the focal length measured from the principal surface depends on the distance of the ray from the lens axis. This dependence is rather weak for gas flow rates minimizing the focal length."
"Resonant modes in ring shaped resonators formed by a reflector strip bent into a circle are discussed here. These modes are derived by superimposing two radially propagating wave beams, one converging toward the resonator axis, the other one diverging from this axis. The condition for resonance leads to an integral equation whose eigenfunctions describe the field distribution at the reflector strip and whose eigenvalues determine the diffraction loss due to the fraction of energy bypassing the reflector. The approximations made in deriving the radial beam mode system are equivalent to those used for the derivation of the axial beam mode system in a Fabry-Perot resonator. Within the limits of these approximations the kernel of the integral equation for a ring resonator is of the same form as the kernel of the integral equation for a parallel strip resonator. If in the radial case the reflector strip is also curved within the axial planes with a radius of curvature equal to the diameter of the reflector ring, and if the width of the reflector strip is sufficiently large, the axial field distribution of the modes is described by Gauss-Hermite functions. The Q of the ring resonator is determined by the diffraction loss and by reflection loss caused by the finite conductivity of the reflector. Formulas for the corresponding Q-values are derived. A numerical evaluation shows that in the microwave region Q-values of the order of 10/sup 6/ are feasible."
"Microwave all-pass circuits, consisting of reactive networks used in conjunction with wide-band circulators or couplers, are described. An extremely useful all-pass circuit for minimizing phase distortion results when the restive network is a linear taper extending beyond cutoff. The delay characteristics of this circuit are well suited to the correction of the dispersive characteristics of TE or TM mode waveguides. Design formulas have been derived for the parameters of the tapers and a set of design curves is presented. The use of composite tapered sections and the use of tapers in conjunction with other equalizing circuits are described. Experimental results have been obtained for the phase of the reflection factor of a linear taper. Close agreement was observed between the results predicted by theory and the experimental data. Typical examples demonstrate that the time-delay variation of a length of uniform waveguide can be substantially reduced by linearly tapered waveguide equalizers."
"A converter between linear and circular polarization has been designed in circular waveguide by the use of periodic loading with oblong dielectric discs. The disc loading increases the single-mode (TE-11) bandwidth relative to that of homogeneously filled circular waveguide. Moreover, periodic loading gives the designer freedom to adjust the disc thickness and shape to meet certain requirements. With the abutting disc-loaded waveguide as a reference, the dielectric loading is increased in one plane of polarization and decreased in the orthogonal plane. In a wide-band design, this differential loading gives nearly constant 90/spl deg/ difference in time phase between space-quadrature component waves, the condition for circular polarization. Such a polarizer has been constructed with four oblong discs. Across a frequency bandwidth of about 15 percent, the measured phase difference is within 2/spl deg/ of the desired value and the SWR is within 1.5 dB."
"Recent progress in the following areas is reviewed: high-power UHF and microwave transistors, high-power microwave transistor-oscillator multipliers and transistor-amplifier multipliers, high-power transistor-driven harmonic-generator chains, Gunn-type oscillators, and avalanche diode oscillators."
"A parametric amplifier can normally be tuned only over relatively restricted frequency ranges. One of the basic reasons for this tuning difficulty is that more than one frequency range is of importance for, in addition to the signal frequency, a pump frequency and one or more sum or difference frequencies must be considered. In this paper a tunable negative-resistance parametric amplifier is described which uses ferrimagnetically-tuned signal and idler circuits, together with a fixed-frequency pump source. This amplifier is unique in two respects. One is that the amplifier is electrically tuned through the use of yttrium iron garnet (YIG) resonators. Secondly, useful low-noise performance has been achieved over a tuning range of almost one octave, this amplifier thus successfully demonstrates that the technique of magnetic tuning with YIG resonators can be applied to a device as complex as a parametric amplifier in much the same manner as it has been applied in the past to microwave band-pass and band-stop filters."
"As a result of both a larger number of microwave functions performed by semiconductor devices and a larger number of functions required in modern systems, it has become highly desirable from both the system and the device standpoint to fabricate multiple microwave semiconductor devices on a common substrate. The use of multiple devices in a single package has system and reliability advantages, but there is also offered the possibility of improved performance of the microwave components. This results from the elimination of packaging of each individual element and the ability to place the package interface in a more advantageous position in the circuit. To effect such an improvement, an efficient means of microwave interconnection must be available. The interconnections must have not only low dissipative losses through the microwave region, but be capable of providing the impedances necessary for transformations by the various microwave functions and for circuit resonating elements. The range of impedance commonly required is of the order of 20 /spl Omega/ to 80/spl Omega/. To be compatible with semiconductor materials and processing, the choice of dielectric material was limited to film dielectrics, possibly SiO/sub 2/, or the use of the semiconductor material itself as a dielectric. For both semi-insulating gallium arsenide and silicon of resistivity greater than 1000 /spl Omega/-cm, the loss is sufficiently low to perform efficient interconnection of devices on a common substrate and is considered even suitable for other components such as directional couplers and hybrids where extremely high Q is not required."
"This paper is concerned with the development of a new type of latching phase shifter which combines submicrosecond switching with a compact strip transmission line structure. Digital increments of nonreciprocal phase shift are obtained by \"latching\" or switching the magnetization of appropriate square loop garnet or ferrite materials from one remanent state to another. The following data have been obtained for a four-bit, C-band model utilizing yttrium iron garnet (4/spl pi/M/sub 8/ = 1600 G): Center Frequency---5.45 Gc/s Phase Deviation---/spl les//spl plusmn/3 percent over an 8 percent frequency band Insertion Loss--- <0.9 db VSWR--- <1.50 Switching Time--- <0.3/spl mu/s with a 130 V, 13 amp pulse Switching Energy--- <200 /spl mu/J for 180/spl deg/ bit Length--- <6 inches."
"The design of a small, lightweight, high peak and average power phase shifter is discussed. To achieve the high peak power handling, a small crystal grain technique was employed that resulted in a 14 to 1 power handling improvelment. To achieve the high average power handling, a temperature compensated garnet was used along with a novel direct dielectric liquid cooling technique. The structure used to implement the cooling causes dielectric loading of the garnet material which enhances the microwave performance of the device. The results have provided a device capable of 360/spl deg/ of continuous reciprocal phase shift while operating at signal levels of 115-kW peak, and 600-watts average power."
"The rapid variation of an admittance shunting a transmission line is a well-known technique for switching microwave power. The application of a switching voltage to a ferroelectric material provides a convenient means for rapidly varying an admittance between significantly different states. A multistub transmission-reflection-type switch actuated by a switching voltage of 1000 volts has been studied. The operation of the switch depends upon the ability of a ferroelectric variable capacitor to change its capacitance upon application of a switching voltage. A change in capacitance represented by a ratio of two to one results in substantial change in the input admittance of the prototype network shunting the transmission line. The prototype network is a shunt stub and is spaced nominally at /spl lambda/ /4 intervals along the transmission line to form a multistub switch. Each shunt stub includes a ferroelectric variable capacitance which employs lead strontium titanate (Pb/sub 0.315/Sr/sub 0.685/TiO/sub 3/) as the ferroelectric material. Both theoretical and experimental curves of isolation and insertion loss vs. frequency are given for two- and three-stub versions of the switch. For switching voltages of the order of 1000 volts, ferroelectric switches with an isolation of 40 dB, an insertion loss less than 1.0 dB, and a bandwidth of 10 percent are feasible."
"The characteristic impedance and the attenuation of transmission lines supporting TEM modes can be computed by using finite difference methods for solving the Laplace equation for the domain defined by the inner and the outer conductor. The difference equations can be solved by machine computation and the impedance and the attenuation is obtained by integrating the field gradients and the squares of field gradients over both boundaries. The case of a shielded strip transmission line is treated as a numerical example. A computation time of approximately 0.015 hour on the IBM 7094 is required for achieving an accuracy of 0.5 percent for the impedance and 2 percent for the attenuation. The finite difference method is also used for lines which are partially filled with dielectric material and it is concluded that low attenuations are obtained by placing the dielectric material in such a way that high field regions are avoided."
"The arc loss of a multimegawatt gas discharge switch is analyzed in the approximation that discharge skin depth is small compared to the discharge container dimensions. Experimental agreement with the results of this analysis is found in several respects: 1) arc loss varies linearly with iris height; 2) arc loss varies inversely with the one fourth root of average peak power; 3) calculated ratios of shunt to series arc loss agree with experimental loss measurements on gas filled TR and ATR duplexer windows. These results have been of particular value in predicting both the loss and power handling capability of extremely high power balanced TR and ATR duplexers from tests on simple shunt mounted discharge windows. It is shown that, for the same iris height, series windows are superior in power handling capability to shunt windows, with the result that a balanced ATR duplexer has two to four times the power handling capability of a balanced pre-TR duplexer."
"This paper describes the system for automatically phasing 240 high-power klystrons that drive the stanford two-mile linear electron accelerator. After a brief discussion of the requirements of a phasing system for such a long machine and a review of some alternative methods which were initially considered, the principle of \"Beam-Induction\" phasing is described. Advantages of the \"Beam-Induction\" technique are listed, and the problem of obtaining phase error information from accelerator signals varying over a 54-dB power range is considered. It is shown that the problem may be solved by the use of coaxial thermionic diodes, which have nearly linear detection characteristics. The concept of phase-wobbling is introduced. It is shown that this idea may be used to design an ac servo system, avoiding problems with dc amplifier stability. Phase wobbling is also seen to remove phasing errors due to imperfect matching of the diode pair. The installation and operation of the automatic phasing system in a typical sector of the machine is briefly described. In conclusion, some results of preliminary tests on the first two sectors (660 feet) of the machine are presented."
"The Nyquist approach to stability is used in a form suitable for representation on a chart having conventional Smith chart scales. It is shown how the gain and stability of negative conductance reflection amplifiers of the tunnel-diode type can be simultaneously predicted on this chart. The technique described is particularly useful in the practical design of these amplifiers embedded in networks having complicated functions of frequency, as it involves predominantly graphical computations. A procedure is outlined for constructing immitance curves for the tunnel-diode, viewed either as a series or as a parallel circuit. An example of a 3-Gc/s amplifier operating in a rectangular waveguide is given."
"Even though the abrupt junction varactor parametric upconverter is a \"square-law\" device, it exhibits gain saturation. This nonlinearity of the transfer characteristic is responsible for the nonlinear distortion present at the output of the device. Of the several methods used to measure nonlinear distortion, the two tone test has been widely used. It is the accepted test method of both SMPTE and CCIR. This paper discusses the relationship between the nonlinear distortion measured by the two tone test and the nonlinear gain characteristic. It shows that if one is known the other is uniquely determined. The analysis is broken into two parts. The first is a large signal analysis of the \"square-law\" parametric frequency converter. The results show that the gain is a function of the input signal level. It is this nonlinear relationship that is responsible for gain saturation. The second part is a study of the series representation of this nonlinear equation with respect to the terms containing the intermodulation frequencies. The final result is an equation which predicts the amplitude of the intermodulation distortion at any of the intermodulation frequencies. The analysis presented is closely related to the circuit and diode parameters and therefore not only predicts the amount of intermodulation distortion but also shows how it may be reduced. Experimental verification of the theory is also included."
"The effect of the tunnel diode series inductance and stray capacitance on the gain and bandwidth of broadband reflection type amplifiers is considered. General stability criteria imposed by these reactance are given together with realizability conditions for ideal (flat gain), Butterworth and Chebyshev responses. The main effect of the parasitic elements is to restrict the range of gain and bandwidth which may be achieved for a given number of elements in the matching network. The minimum gain is restricted together with both the maximum and minimum bandwidths. Comprehensive sets of curves are given which enable a rapid design of either Butterworth or Chebyshev response to be accomplished, and a procedure is given for conversion of the low-pass prototype network to band-pass form in the presence of the parasitic reactances. The frequency transformation is used to obtain an upper limit on the center frequency of the band-pass amplifier imposed by the parasitic. The use of the design data is illustrated by numerical examples."
"An equivalent circuit is given which quantitatively predicts the performance of magnetron oscillators when they are frequency locked by an injected RF signal. A method is presented for the reciprocal coupling of magnetrons to a traveling wave without reflection. The theory is supported by experimental results which include: 1) a single-tube locked oscillator with nonreciprocal (circulator) coupling, 2) a three-tube locked oscillator array with reciprocal coupling, 3) a two-tube oscillator with reciprocal coupling. The feasibility of various locked oscillator and self-oscillating arrays, including the effect of mismatched loads, is discussed."
"The point-matching method applies to the problem of wave propagation in many uniform waveguides of very general cross-sections. The boundary conditions are satisfied at a finite number of points on the guide wall only. This method applies when the contour of the cross section of the guide is a closed curve, the function of which is single-valued. The validity of the point-matching method is demonstrated qualitatively. Examples show that accurate values of cutoff wave numbers can be achieved easily."
"A lumped element Y circulator using ferrite, having a mesh mechanism in place of the center conductor of an ordinary Y strip line circulator, is proposed. A theory is developed relating to bandwidth, insertion loss, and temperature dependence of the reactive energy and the tensor permeability of ferrite, and the bandwidth enlargement is discussed on the basis of the equivalent network. The size of the circulator is approximately 1~2 cm in diameter for VHF and UHF bands and the characteristics are, for example, about 50 percent bandwidth for 20-dB isolation, 2-dB insertion loss at 600-Mc/s center frequency. It is also shown that the insertion loss has its minimum value at a definite bandwidth and, as a practical example, a circulator is described with 0.25 dB of insertion loss and 6.5 percent bandwidth at 700 Mc/s."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the back cover of the Transactions issue."
"This paper discusses the processing and use of ironsilicon alloys [American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) M27, M6, etc.] in electromechanical applications. These materials are more commonly used in electromagnetic applications such as transformer and motor laminations, relays, and solonoids. Resistance to mechanical stress is provided by applying hard carburized or carbonitrided cases to only those areas subjected to mechanical stress. Thus, a single part provides both magnetic softness and resistance to abrasion and impact. The process used to produce grain orientation in M6 electrical steel precludes the use of subsequent case hardening treatments. In this instance, hard inserts can provide similar resistance to impact and abrasion. The magnetic properties of these materials are of prime importance to assure functional performance. This paper describes special annealing practices which provide properties that allow maximum performance from materials of the previously mentioned types. The common industry practice of specifying magnetic properties by using core loss values is of particular interest. In electromechanical applications, these values are not sufficient to guarantee magnetic performance, therefore, properties such as maximum permeability and coercive force must be determined. This entails the selection of materials and practices that will give proper performance. The methods used in selecting suitable materials and the required testing procedures are also covered in this paper."
"This paper discusses investigations of vacuum-deposited thin-film titanium dioxide capacitors applicable to microelectronic circuits. Included are sections covering evaporant materials and their purities, vacuum evaporation techniques, anodizing procedures, substrate materials, and electrical properties of thin-film TiO2capacitors."
"The question of how to achieve the highest possible reliability for Tantalum capacitors is discussed from both the theoretical and practical point of view. A method of achieving reliabilities of the order 95 per cent at a confident level of 95 per cent or better is described which involves an analytical treatment of the physics of the main mode of failure, all accounting for over 90 per cent of a failure; and a statistical model is derived which demonstrates this reliability on a highly accelerated test. The test is applicable on a 100 per cent basis to the test capacitors and, as it is nondestructive, it allows the attainment of a reliability figure for each individual unit. This also provides a method of attaining very high reliabilities at a low cost and the test can be carried out in 24 hours or less."
"The Eyring Model has been used to derive the \"power rule\" for capacitors. Analytical models for evaluating progressive and step stress tests are presented. Various methods are discussed for determining the value of the exponent for the power rule. In particular, the relation between the exponent of the power rule and the \\beta of the Weibull distribution, for both progressive and constant stress tests, is discussed. Data for mica capacitors are used to demonstrate the validity of these relations and to illustrate methods for determining the constants of the equations."
"A segmental square-law circuit is described employing silicon carbide nonlinear resistors in a parallel configuration analogous to a conventional diode function generator, but having the advantage of requiring no bias supplies and giving an output noticeably free of discontinuities. An optimization procedure is described by which satisfactory values for the circuit elements were obtained. Using only two segments, the square law was fitted to within 1 volt over a working range of 0 to 100 volts."
"Variations in the size and orientation of a surface cooled by evaporation of a liquid are reflected in the measured heat transfer characteristics. Nucleate boiling curves from tests of \"Freon-113\" in contact with two sizes of heated flat plates in different positions are used to demonstrate the comparative characteristics. For low levels of heat flux, the lowest surface temperatures are exhibited by the larger of the heated plates facing downward. At higher fluxes, the lowest temperatures observed are those of the larger plates facing upward. The slope of the boiling curve for any size plate becomes progressively greater as the plate is shifted from the face-down position through the vertical to the face-up position. The facility with which bubbles can escape from a heated surface is proposed as a significant determinant of heat transfer characteristics."
"This paper discusses measurements of the dielectric properties of thin insulating films of AZ-171and KPR.2The properties include conductivity and dielectric constant as a function of frequency, voltage, and temperature. Also, films have been temperature cycled from 3° to 500° K to determine if structural defects appear. These measurements show that specially prepared films are suitable as large area insulators for fabricating multilayer film circuits. To illustrate the advantages of using photoresist films for both insulator and etch resist, a brief description of a process for fabricating cryotrons will be presented."
"A low-power bench microscope was modified to facilitate direct observation of fusion of paints to make glaze resistors during heating cycles which simulate production and experimental firing cycles. Using this tool, the formation of \"cleavage\" (clear line of separation between noble-metal glaze resistor and screened-on termination) was studied. The mode of formation of \"cleavage\" and possible sources of causative agents are discussed."
"Conventional statistical reliability techniques are a necessary condition of reliability. They are, however, insufficient and inadequate. Other reliability techniques are needed to turn a feasibly designed system into a completely successful one. The implementation of these techniques is lagging. They have not as yet been unified on an industry-wide basis. They must be implemented and unified, however, to attain the reliability goals desired. The majority of specific reliabilityfunded efforts since World War II have had as their goal the design and fabrication of \"better\" parts. To this end, large sums of money have been spent and progress has been made. It is not suggested, of course, that the effort to improve parts be abandoned. The method of investigating, improving and using these \"better\" parts should be the prime technique, and should be implemented. The state of the equipment art has been considered a limiting factor in implementing ever higher goals of reliability. The limitations are, in reality, reliability semantics, and our inability to properly utilize the techniques that exist in the field of reliability. Another large portion of the reliability dollar has been spent in improving by corrective action, resulting in after-the-fact \"know-how.\" Reliability personnel must engineer before-thefact, explore new physical, chemical, and manufacturing concepts, and communicate these before-the-fact findings to the personnel concerned. We do not require better definition of consistency in reliability requirements. We do need reliability personnel who are concerned not only with the strict quantitative interpretation-- but who live in the technical climate of today's business world. Most importantly, perhaps, these people must be capable of communicating with the customer and the designer/producer to the mutual satisfaction of both. Reliability techniques which embody engineering principle s are presented which are not necessarily new to personnel in small companies, to users of equipment of uncomplex design, or to reliability groups who have been actively \"doing\" instead of \"agreeing to do.\" However, these methods should be reviewed by the newcomers in reliability organizations and the newcomers not in reliability organizations but who tend to think that reliability groups are intended to be statistics oriented."
"A precision tantalum nitride thin film integrated resistor network has been constructed to convert 9-bit parallel binary words to equivalent analog voltages at a rate of 12 megacycles per second. There are 35 precision resistors and 9 matched diode bridges that make up the decoder network. This paper concerns fabrication and performance of the resistor portion of the network. The network was fabricated on a 2x5.3 inch glazed ceramic substrate. Eighteen resistors dissipate 1/8 watt each at a power density of 9.5 watts per square inch of film. Aging tests at normal and accelerated rates show negligible resistance change and changes that occur with time or with temperature change are uniform for all resistors. The decoder network has been tested in its system application while transmitting a simulated full load of 600 telephone voice channels. The whole system converted signals with a signal to noise ratio only 1.6 db less than theoretical 9-bit performance."
"The protracted contest between solid-state and thin-film microcircuitry proponents appears to be subsiding, due to the recognition that the two techniques really complement each other. Microcircuit manufacturers and users look to hybrid circuits as a good way to achieve Iow-cost, high-performance circuits. The technique, termed \"reactive sputtering\" of preparing thin films ranging from conductors to resistive films and even to dielectric films, by sputtering from a tantalum cathode in the presence of an oxygen partial pressure has been developed to deposit resistors and capacitors onto oxidized silicon substrates. Reactively sputtered resistive films of tantalum/tantalum oxide offer sheet resistivities of 27 to 25,400 ohms/square and TCR values of -3 to -1,280 ppm/°C. Their stability during 1000 hours at +125°C and 2 watts/inch2is about ±2 per cent. Dielectric films of reactively sputtered tantalum oxide have been prepared which offer 0.30 to 3.16 pF/mil2and Vbd of 82 to 8 volts respectively, and TCC values of +129 to +269 ppm/°C. Capacitors have been llfe tested for 1000 hours at +125°C at a conservative rating of 60 per cent of Vbd, and show excellent stability. Reactive sputtering variables, including time, current, gas flow, pressure, and substrate temperature and their relation to resistive and dielectric film properties are reported."
"Thin-film hybrid circuits are described, and it is shown how, and why they are especially applicable, both practically and economically, in applications where space, weight, power, and operating speed are important considerations."
"This paper presents a series of graphed sequential tests to be used for testing the joint hypothesis that (the Weibull shape factor)\\beta=\\beta0and that (the Weibull scale factor)\\theta=\\theta0. These o plans, obtained by simulating life tests on an IBM 7090 computing system, are specified for two sample sizes, five confidence levels, and six shape factors (\\beta>0o)."
"Metallic resistors are encapsulated mainly for two reasons. Firstly to avoid mechanical damage, secondly to provide protection against moisture. If moisture penetration is not prevented and if at the same time ions are present capable of moving through or along the insulating materials, a resistance change will occur with time, whenever the resistor is subjected to a high relative humidity and a d.c. load. Under these conditions there will be an electrolytic current flowing through or along the insulating materials, which will cause damage to the resistance element at the anodic side of the resistor. Typical quantities expressing the behaviour are: the resistance value of the insulation resistance of the covering material under various humidity conditions and the caloric resistance of the whole component. Calculated are formulae, which sate put to the test and which show that: the electrolytic current flowing through or along the insulating materials as a function of applied load has a maximum values the load at which this maximum occurs depends on the resistor construction and the materials used$ the moisture resistance of a metallic resistor has to be tested at several loads, otherwise it will be impossible to draw con- clusions."
"Failure mechanisms of high power noninductive ceramic resistors in high energy, and in high voltage surge applications, have been investigated. These studies have determined the fundamental cause of failure to be that of thermal shock propagation caused by the discharge of large amounts of stored energy in a short period of time. When the surge energies are maintained at low levels, peak voltages of up to 445 kilovolts can be applied to the resistors without a significant change in resistance. The test studies, in conjunction with ar approximate theoretical expression for stress of a ceramic matrix due to thermal shock, show that the failure mechanism is a functior of 1. The joules of energy stored in the discharge capacitors. 2. The physical Geometry of the resistor. 3. The physical properties of the ceramic body. 4. The resistance of the body."
"The development of a hydrostatically-pressure sensitive transducer with dimensions much smaller than conventional pigtailed electronic components has made possible the measurement of environmentally-induced stresses in encapsulated electronic modules. Such measurements for a few encapsulants have shown large changes in internal stresses with small changes in ambient temperature, a shift in the stress transition range with formulation variations and changes in stress magnitude with component density in an electronic module."
"Silicon oxide capacitors have been developed on micromodule wafers (O. 3lO-in. sq. with three termination notches per side). Each microelement contains 1, 2, 3, or 4 capacitors with values of 1120 and 560, 180, 100 and 68 pf per capacitor, respectively. The 1120 pf capacitor is double layered. In addition to the general requirements of microelements and micromodules, some of the more important specifications these capacitors must meet are: dissipation factor (DF) not exceeding 0.015, insulation resistance (IR) at 50 volts exceeding 10,000 megohms (25°C) and 750 megohms (125°c), 50 WVDC and 150 volts dielectric withstanding voltage (DWV),\\Deltanot exceeding + 15% (-55° to 125°C), no breakdown during or after a short term life test of 72 hours at 125°C while stressed at 150 volts, and a long term life test of 2000 hours at 125°C and 100 volts after which DF should not exceed 0.03 and IR should exceed 3000 megohms (room temperature) and be not less than 500 megohms (125°C). The capacitors are non-polar with vacuum deposited A1 electrodes and silicon oxide (largely monoxide) dielectric. They are fabricated in a microcircuit jig that processes 32 microelements simultaneously and 192 microelements during one vacuum cycle. Both the A1 and SiO are deposited at the monitored and controlled rate of 50 Å/sec. The thicknesses of electrodes and dielectric are 5000 and 12,500, respectively. Wafer temperature during deposition is about 170°C and chamber pressure is 1-4x10-5torr during A1 evaporation, and 0.6-1x10-5 torr during SiO evaporation. The SiO evaporator design is important; a baffled Ta box has proven satisfactory. Deposition masks were made from 0. 005-in. spring steel by photoresist techniques. Capacitors deposited on unglazed alumina wafers had DF readings of approximately 0.3; undercoating with SiO or polishing the wafers did not prove effective in reducing the DF appreciably. Glazing' the alumina prior to capacitor deposition lowered the DF to about 0.04. Two approaches to glazed elements were equally successful: (1) a glass frit fired onto an unglazed, metallized wafer; (2.) metallizing applied to a glazed wafer. The second approach has been adopted. Capacitance is uniform to within ±5% and DF to within ± 10%. It was found that heat treatment in air at 250°C for at least 48 hours lowered the DE to less than 0.008, lowered the capacitance by about 10%, and increased IR to over 10,000 megohms without causing detrimental electrode-land reactions. Presumably, oxygen diffuses into the dielectric converting it to SiOx(1< x <2) and lowering its dielectric constant. The units are very stable, maintaining their capacitance, DF, and DWV values for months while stored at 25°C in ambient atmosphere. **"
"The difficulties involved in using mating connectors to interconnect nanosecond pulse circuit boards are discussed. The effects of such connectors on pulse characteristics may be predicted by the techniques presented in this article. Experimental verification of predicted performance is presented in the form of photographs through the use of time domain reflectometry. The connector used to illustrate these techniques is a miniature printed circuit board type. An equivalent circuit for this connector is arrived at through an experimental procedure. Additional experimental justification of this circuit is presented. This equivalent circuit is used to derive an expression for the waveform of the pulse reflected from a connector contact pair. The risetime degradation of the pulse transmitted through the connector contact is evaluated by use of the equivalent circuit. The expression for the waveform coupled into a set of contacts by a pulse driving an adjacent pair is derived with the aid of the equivalent circuit. These expressions are presented and illustrated in the text. The mathematical derivations are presented in a set of appendices. Experimental verification of the analysis in the form of photographs of pulse reflection and pulse crosscoupling waveforms is offered. Methods of improving performance of the connector with regard to pulse risetime degradation, pulse reflection, and crosscoupling are demonstrated. Various arrangements of contact connectors and their relative merits are discussed."
"In this paper a mathematical expression is derived representing the relation between the hot spot temperature and the dimensions of cylindrical axial lead resistors. The validity of the formula is discussed. Practical values for dimensions and material constants have been chosen and for 3000 combinations of these values the maximum temperature has been calculated with a computer. With help of these results the influence of the different parameters on the temperature has been evaluated and interpreted."
"The present work studies the time-temperature relationships of adhesion for typical platinum-gold glaze conductors. An empirical equation is derived from which it is possible to calculate the optimum time and temperature of firing. It is shown that the effects of two firings must be taken into account in choosing primary firing conditions. Adhesion was studied as a function of time at elevated temperature, as a function of elevated temperature and humidity and as a function of temperature cycling. Adhesion is degraded by high ambient temperature and humidity through continued reaction with eutectic solder, but life is estimated at 1,000 hours even at 150°C. Conductor films appear insensitive to thermal shock."
"The main properties of a new bulk metal film resistor have been previously presented at the Electronic Components Conference in Washington, May 6, 1964. In particular, it was shown that this resistor has an extremely low and controllable temperature coefficient of resistance. In the present paper a rigorous mathematical treatment of temperature coefficient changes in bulk metal film resistors due to thermal strains is presented. The resistance change corresponding to these thermal strains is used in resistor design to balance the inherent T.C. of the metal film. Special attention is focused on the contribution of protective coatings to thermal strains. Relationships have been developed between the temperature coefficient changes and the properties and thicknesses of substrate, metal film, and coatings. In this way design parameters and manufacturing tolerances have been prescribed on a fully rational basis."
"A study of the thermal oxidation of tantalum nitride (Ta-N) thin films has led to the development of a thermal processing technique by which these metal films can be made to exhibit superior resistor characteristics. The thermal process simply involves heating the Ta-N film resistors in air at some temperature between 450° and 700°C. Radiant heating has been found to be most convenient for this purpose. While the resistor is maintained at the elevated temperature, its resistance is monitored. When the resistor reaches the desired value, the heat source is quickly removed. Resistors can be easily trimmed to O.B%, and by exercising some care, 0.1% and less may be attained. In comparison with the usual \"anodic\" processing of Ta-N resistors, the thermal technique holds promise of greater economy in manufacture by reducing the number of process steps and by increasing the resistor yield. The latter benefit derives from the fact that the electrical behavior of thermally oxidized Ta-N resistors shows a marked insensitivity to certain deposition parameters which are normally controlled with some care. Accelerated tests of resistors made by this method are being carried out at various load levels and under high humidity conditions. Resistance changes as low as 0.1% per thousand hours have been recorded for nominal 1/2 watt resistors operating at 1 watt. Processing parameters such as substrate material, nitrogen doping level, trim rate, and amount of trim have been investigated. Although continued evaluation will be required before thermal processing is fully qualified, it is already clear that it will be of considerable importance to the Ta-N discrete and integrated resistor technology."
"This paper describes the GARD test theory and associated test instrument which is proposed as a means of economically replacing present burnin screening tests for resistive components. The total test requires approximately 5 seconds and offers a new and improved concept of temperature coefficient of resistance measurement in addition to the high reliability screening capability. This test is applicable to all types of resistive components including the resistive portions of integrated circuits and works on the principle of assuring component reliability by the identification of any failure modes that exist in a resistive system and could consequently cause or contribute to component failure."
"This paper discusses the production of thin copper-clad laminates which are used in the manufacture of multi-layer printed circuit boards. Copper-clad laminates of conventional thickness are relatively easy to produce, to test and to use, whereas the thin laminates present some problems to both producer and user. These problems as well as the properties of thin laminates are discussed."
"One of the latest and most interesting techniques in the use of plastics for electronic packaging is the total embedment of an assembled circuit in a closed mold, utilizing a transfer molding press. This technique uses a combination of heat and pressure to liquefy a powdered or granular plastic compound in a transfer pot, and subsequent introduction of the plastic into the mold cavity while maintaining a carefully controlled heat and pressure on the transfer plunger. In comparison with the more recognized techniques of potting or encapsulating with liquid plastic systems, this new technique yields a better appearing product at a lower cost. While the dollar value of the new technique is of tremendous interest to the Manufacturing and Cost Accounting people, the improvement in manufacturing cycle efficiency is more dramatic, actually reducing the span from pre-molding to post molding tests, from several hours to as low as 15 minutes."
"Over 2.5 million hours of life test have been accumulated in the process of manufacturing High Reliability Magnetic Components for Missile and Space Programs. These units were manufactured under a High Reliability Program and were subjected to qualification and acceptance tests as required by the customer's specifications. The compiled life hours is composed of twenty-five electrical specifications and includes Power Transformers, Inductors, and Audio Transformers. Documentation of test records by serialization provides a complete history of each unit. This paper will discuss the results of the testing programs and the effects of environment upon the design of the component, also the effect of extended life test on the operation of the units."
"In modern electronic equipment, many components operate at stress levels much below their rated values. The factors governing failure, and therefore reliability, may be quite different at these levels from those that apply at the higher levels at which testing is usually performed. Using electrical contacts and dielectric materials as examples, the importance of considering low stress phenomena is pointed out, and the need for more investigation is stressed."
"The complexity of their failure mechanisms, the significant interaction effects of numerous operating parameters, and high test costs have led to many elaborate, expensive, time consuming, and often ineffective, test programs to characterize the life expectancy of specific relay designs under a variety of application conditions. This paper describes a program wherein a series of life tests of a newly developed relay, conducted in accordance with a factorial experimental design, graphical Weibull analysis, and appropriate computational techniques were combined to derive the functional relationship between its life expectancy and the operating parameters of load current, ambient temperature, and operating frequency over a broad range of stress levels. The results of the program are presented in the form of application data for use by the design engineer in assessing the expected life expectancy, or reliability of the design over a wide range of the parameters explored and the effect of \"trading-off\" operating parameters on the reliability of the device."
"This paper describes a program for designing communication transformers on a digital computer. The program accepts circuit requirements for transformers, calculates the limiting values of the transformer parameters needed to meet these requirements, searches for existing designs, designs new transformers, verifies that new or old transformers will meet the requirements, characterizes new designs for total useful response, and generates complete manufacturing information. This application of the computer by engineers to do involved but methodical engineering tasks results in significant savings and improvements in performing these tasks."
"Early in the F-lll design effort, an F-lll Parts Control and Standardization Program was developed and implemented through a team of electronic parts specialists from General Dynamics and 12 of the major electronic equipment contractors. Basic objectives of the team were (1) the standardization of common electronic parts by joint evaluation, selection, and use of preferred part types, (2) the preparation of coordinated specification control drawings and recommended suppliers, (3) the formulation of procurement procedures and supplier surveillance procedures to permit economical procurement of the high-quality preferred parts, and (4) exchange of parts data and information and discussion of related program problems. In the selection of preferred part types, the team was primarily concerned with semiconductor devices, resistors, and capacitors. In this area, the number of preferred types approved was reduced substantially from the part types suggested. Air Force and Navy representatives who have attended F-lll Parts Control and Standardization Team meetings have expressed concurrence with the team's philosophy and the requirements of their specification control drawings. Military specifications are being revised and rewritten to incorporate the requirements of the team's specification control drawings. These new and revised specifications for \"Proven Performance\" parts are scheduled for release prior to this meeting. The F-lll Parts Control and Standardization Program was adopted by General Dynamics/Fort Worth as a voluntary reliability effort. Future Air Force contracts may require such a program; this requirement is currently under consideration."
"A process has been developed to produce A1-Al203-Al capacitors with good yields and suitable properties for use in thin-film circuitry. Tests were conducted to determine the effects that a number of variables have on production yields and capacitor characteristics. This paper reports the optimum found for each variable. The largest improvement inyields was brought about by following proper cleaning procedures and controlling dust on the substrate prior to insertion in the vacuum system and during pumpdown."
"Two types of sputtering have been used to deposit several II-VI compound materials as thin films suitable for various applications. Both reactive and compound sputtering have yielded stable and reproducible films. In either case doping was accomplished during film deposition. Zinc sulphide films have yielded good capacitors with low dissipation, moderate breakdown voltages and High stability. Pronounced photoconductivity was exhibited by suitably doped cadmium sulphide and seienide Films. When provided with an appropriate counter electrode the sulphides of zinc and cadmium exhibited the photovoltaic effect or rectification. Doping during sputtering has also led to electroluminescence. Film resistivities as high as 1012ohm cm. have been achieved."
"A newly developed tantalum nitride thin film resistor is being evaluated that uses an unglazed flat ceramic substrate with a pattern for the resistive element embossed into its surface. The resistive element is the sputtered tantalum nitride film with its inherent low temperature coefficient of resistance and high stability over long term load life. The design is such that it eliminates the use of photolithographic techniques and electrolytic processing. Preliminary tests indicate that this resistor design offers a high degree of reliability and stability."
"Stringent contractual specifications covering complex radar, communications, and space probe systems frequently call for accuracies beyond those derived from existing standards. In many cases, the true value of a standard is not exactly known: in addition, uncertainties are incurred during a measurement process. These, along with the hierarchy of calibrations from higher-to lower-echelon testing laboratories, make it difficult to report separately the inaccuracies of the standard and the measurement system. In some instances, the accuracy of a measurement system and a standard is stated conservatively. This is usually justified pending historical information from data for determining stability characteristics. Statistical tools are available, however, for use in determining inaccuracies and thus improving confidence in accuracy statements. These statistical tools are used in evaluating insertion loss measurements of commercially available fixed-attenuation standards at microwave frequencies where system stability, alignment and waveguide flexure of components are of major concern."
"A packaging system is described which provides for the compatible use of integrated circuits, thin film circuits and conventional components in the synthesis of spaeeborne digital command and data handling equipments. Each of the three categories of components are used in a family of 20 module types which can be used to build decoders, programmers, data multiplexers, analog-to-digital converters, data compressors and other specialized digital equipments. Considerations for interconneetion in hybrid systems, both at the module and subsystem level are discussed."
"This paper contains a description of the concepts and techniques used in the electronic packaging of the Phoenix Missile Electronics Unit. The unit consists of etched circuit chassis pairs sandwiched between heat transfer panels. The sandwiches of heat transfer panels and chassis are compressed by end plates. Circuits such as logic networks, audio amplifiers and high gain DC amplifiers are packaged in unique, welded, plug-in modules; circuits such as IF amplifiers and crystal-controlled oscillators are packaged in individual welded modules contained within aluminum investment casting s. The other major features described are methods of providing thermal control and structural in- tegrity."
"A new Air Force specification for electrical connectors, MIL-C-38300(USAF) has been introduced primarily to meet the high performance demands of advanced aerospace systems. Materials and techniques used to produce connectors that will meet the specified environmental serviceability and reliability requirements are detailed and illustrated."
"A print-out technique was used to study the electronic conductivity of anodic oxide films and, in particular, the electronic conductivity associated with heterogeneities in the oxide film. Tantalum foil was used in the \"as received\" state, after chemical polishing, abraded, heated in air, and carburized to show the electronic current of defects as a function of formation voltage (film thickness), field strength, and pretreatment."
"This paper describes some improvements in design, manufacturing, and testing of 2-pole and 4-pole 5-ampere high reliability relays of low profile and small volume. Design features contributing to long life and high reliability at full load or dry-circuit load include elimination of contact buttons, push-pull actuation rather than spring bias of common contacts, gold plating as a lubricant for armature pivots, peeling rather than sliding contact action to prevent sticking, improved methods of outgassing and sealing, and other features. Reasons are given to justify several unusual design features, including the orientation of contact blades with respect to the header and the use of coil cores working magnetically in parallel. Improved miss-testing equipment includes testing at both polarities, detection of make-before-break errors, and emphasizes suppression of inductive transients."
"The design of all-solid-state radar transmitters for satisfactory performance in trans-lunar space or on the lunar surface poses many problems, the solution of which provides beneficial fallout for other applications. This paper discusses the design considerations which were combined to produce a highly reliable end sophisticated package adapted to accomplish, for a lunar excursion mission profile, the functions of velocity sensor and altimeter for a moon landing system, and of radar transmitter and transponder in a rendezvous-for-return system. The discussion covers the integrated electromechanical design of the basic unit, with typical performance parameters. Finally, packaging advances and the solution of thermal problems are described."
"This paper reports the development of an alumina ceramic feedthrough terminal for use on Electronic Components that is corona free to its external flashover voltage. Comparing this flashover voltage to the corona start voltage of similar size conventional terminals, this represents an improvement of more than four to one. The improvement has been gained by shielding the air near the critical mounting flange area with a metalized film on the interior of the ceramic body. The paper describes how this has reduced the system of dielectrics in this critical area to a single dielectric and has minimized the effect of the large difference in dielectric constant between alumina, transformer oil and air. This has been done without a significant increase in the stress carried by the internal insulation. Using this design concept, a 60 KV RMS corona free terminal for use on oil filled components has been designed, tested and is described. A small sulfur hexafluoride filled air-to-air feedthrough terminal, which is corona free to higher than 20 KV RMS and which uses the same principles, is also discussed."
"Ceramic substrates for housing microelectronic circuits must be extremely stable electrically and mechanically. They should also exhibit good thermal and mechanical shock resistance in order to withstand not only process steps encountered in fabricating microcircuits on their surfaces, but also subsequent environmental applications. Chemical activity requirements have also been imposed on the substrate by current developments in metal-glaze resistors and protective coatings, and to avoid migration of circuit metallizing. Both alumina and bery!lia under proper treatment, are particularly suited for this application. When moderately large values of capacitances are required, high dielectric constant substrates, such as barium titanate, may be employed."
"A simple and accurate method in fabrication of tantalum thin-film integrated circuits was developed. In that, after the sheet resistivity of deposited film is adjusted by anodizing its surface, photolithographic processes are carried out successively."
"As part of the NASA Orbiting Geophysical Observatory (OGO) program, an investigation was made of failure mechanisms in miniature pulse transformers, a type commonly used for drive pulse coupling in low-power digital circuitry. The resulting corrective action methods are useful for reliability improvement in other similar magnetic devices and components. Failures were traced to breaks in small diameter magnet wire. Examination showed two possible causes of failure: (1) mechanical stressing of material during assembly and (2) metallurgical stressing of the fine copper wire during soldering. Preventive action was taken to eliminate accidental mechanical stress. To avoid metallurgical changes during soldering, a process specification was developed to prevent gross solution of the solder. This was accomplished by close control of soldering temperature, wider distribution of heat at the joint, and control of the time material is held at soldering temperature. Tests verified the effectiveness of these process improvements. No failures have been experienced in subsequent manufacturing."
"Tantalum oxide ~hin film capacitors of approximately 10* ~f were prepared by anodization of sputtered tantalum films and vacuum evaporation of gold counterelectrodes. Initial leakage currents at 75 v d.c. were obtained and the capacitors were placed on a constant voltage life test. The variables studied were anodization voltage (100v-300v), life test voltage (lOv-65v) and life test temperature (RT-110°C). The proportion of test samples meeting a 0.01 ~A leakage current measurement at 75 volts varied from about 90% for films formed at 130 volts to about 100% for films formed at > 165 volts. Marked improvement In life test performance with increasing anodization voltage was observed. For films produced at 165-300 volts no failures were observed in ~ 400 samples for 2500 hours at 50 volts and 85°C. The behavior of leakage current, reverse and forward breakdown voltages, capacitance and dielectric loss as a function of anodization voltage was examined. The data obtained from the former two measurements demonstrate a maximum in these properties in the region of 200 volts and indicate that higher anodization voltages do not lead to any significant improvement in capacitor properties."
"R. F. tests were run on a large number of capacitors to determine practical ratings, define operating characteristics and optimize design. Frequency and thermal effects were encountered and analyzed mathematically. A system for reporting rating characteristics was developed, a derating curve was derived and factors influencing operation were defined."
"The shortcomings of convention aluminum electrolytic capacitors are discussed, in particular their lack of stability and limited temperature range. A new type of aluminum electrolytic capacitor is described of high stability and an operating temperature range from -55°C to +125°C. It owes its superior performance characteristics to the development of a new electrolyte system representing a complete departure from the customary glycol/borate electrolytes. Typically, the impedance increases by a factor of about 1.2 when going from +25°C to -55°C and extended life and shelf tests at 125°C show an exceptional stability of the electrical parameters comparable with or surpassing those of tantalum foil capacitors."
"Gaseous anodization of aluminum has been investigated as an alternative procedure to forming thin oxide films by such standard techniques as electrolytic anodization and air oxidation. Oxide films are formed on an aluminum surface when positioned in the plateau region of a glow discharge of oxygen. Process variables such as the oxygen pressure and the applied voltage are found to affect the time for film formation. The films are further evaluated on the basis of capacitance and breakdown voltage measurements as well as breakdown pattern observations. Some information as to the rate and nature of film formation is deduced from probe current versus time measurements."
"The capacitance, dissipation factor, resistivity, and dielectric strength of dried anodized aluminum films are discussed. A miniature non polar self healing capacitor using metalized anodic films is described. Construction techniques, performance, and ratings are presented."
"The devitrification process, which entails fritting the complete composition, preparing specimens of the powdered glass, and firing, has resulted in markedly improved structure in ceramics. This is the result of mixing of the composition on an atomic basis, retaining a randomly oriented structure in the fritted raw material, forming the basic crystalline phase by devitrification during a subsequent firing operation, and the maturing of the composition by sintering, crystal to crystal in the case of stoichiometric compositions, or in the presence of a glass in a more complex composition. Percentages of true density up to 99% have been realized along with markedly improved physical and electrical properties."
"A thin film lubricant has been developed for gold plated contacts. This film is Octadecylamine-hydrochloride (ODA·HCL), and it exhibits excellent adherence to gold surfaces. The friction between solid gold surfaces and gold plated surfaces was reduced by a factor of approximately 4 to 1. The lubricating properties of this film have been adequately demonstrated under loads ranging from 20 to 300 grams while providing metal-to-metal electrical contact. The stability of this film has been demonstrated in exposure tests performed in the laboratory as well as direct exposure to industrial, marine and smog atmospheres in the United States. In all instances, the thin film maintained its lubricating properties and its low electrical resistance characteristics. The adherence of the film to the gold surface is believed to involve only physical adsorption primarily by van der Waals forces, however, this phenomena is still being studied. An interim batch method of coating contacts was developed and indicates the feasibility of a production technique of applying reliable coatings to contacts. Octadecylamine-hydrochloride film was found to be superior to other types of lubricants tried on gold plated surfaces and offers a potential of considerable improvement in gold plated connector contacts in a wide variety of applications."
"This paper discusses the application of plasma anodization to the pyrochlore, lanthanum titanate (La2Ti2O7), and the use of this material as a thin film dielectric. The process involves co-evaporation of the metals, lanthanum and titanium, followed by plasma anodization. Evaporation and anodization techniques are fully discussed as are the electrical properties of the resulting films."
"This study provides tolerance-distribution data for a microwave printed-circuit development utilizing \"strip-line\" type filters, 50-ohm transmission lines, and tuning stubs. Irradiated polyethylene is the dielectric. Data is given on tolerance distribution in the following process areas: Artwork cutting; Photographic (reduction, exposure and development, contact printing with glass and film, step-repeat camera work); Etching (including resist exposure and development). Dimensional instabilities in the irradiated polyethylene was found to be a key problem. Some of the total tolerance must be left for dimensional changes in the substrate, so the three process areas must give better than plus or minus one mil over-all tolerances. Generally speaking, on dimensionally stable material the required one-mil tolerance. (can be held throughout the three processes; where this tolerance was not held, the problem is, as noted, material instability."
"The solar cell has been used extensively only as a source of electric power in space vehicles, and as an indicator of static light intensity in the familiar photographer's exposure meter. Its development was prompted by a need for a reliable, long-life source of power in these applications. A novel extension of its properties is feasible in sensing and measuring mechanical movements. The solar cell becomes a novel transducer, permitting the measurement of displacements in confined spaces which are either too small or too rapid for visual observation. It can be used wherever it can be mounted with a suitable light source. Since displacement is a measure of a distance traversed in a time interval, calibration of the measuring system using the solar cell transducer allows measurements of time, velocity, and acceleration. From these results, an analysis of the dynamic behavior of the mechanical system can be obtained. This paper discusses the general objectives of a sensor transducer, to show that the solar cell is a feasible addition to the many types presently available. Typical characteristic properties of the solar cell are discussed to illustrate its behavior as. a transducer."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents a biography of Arthur P. Kramer, Vice Chairman, G-PMP."
"To terminate pulse equipment supplying peak voltages up to a million volts for microsecond durations requires nonreactive loads to maintain the pulse characteristics. The resistive elements must not only dissipate the pulse energy but must also maintain a low reactance for the high frequencies in the pulse waveform. The return circuit, treated as a short-circuited transmission line, forms the basis for designing nonreactive resistors with both cylindrical and fiat conductors. The distribution of voltage, current, and power is shown for the ideal design. Formulas are derived for the Chaperon double winding, the \"hairpin\" or loop geometry, and the coaxial form. Resistance values range from less than an ohm to several hundred thousand ohms for pulse voltages up to 1.2 million volts. Time constants vary from 10-6to 10-10seconds. A frequency expression is derived to aid in predicting the resistor's frequency response. Construction and measuring techniques are included. Frequency effects are analyzed to compensate for the skin effect on the resistance and inductance, and to select low-loss dielectric materials."
"Junction diodes made from certain types of semiconductors emit light efficiently when forward biased. Wavelengths between 8.5 µ and 0.64 µ have been observed, depending on the material. When the diode has cleaved facets normal to the junction, a resonant optical cavity is formed in the plane of the junction and. stimulated emission can be observed. The threshold current density for stimulated emission in GaAs is of the order of 1000 A/cm2at 77°K and increases as T8. The efficiency is of the order of 10 percent. For GaAs, electroluminescent emission occurs at about 8500 Â at 77°K, and the spontaneous linewidth is 200 Â. Above threshold sharp lines appear, the spacing of which is correctly predicted by cavity theory. The width of an individual mode line in GaAs is, at most, 10 Mc/s. A fan-shaped laser beam emerges from a Fabry-Perot cavity above threshold; the plane of the fan is normal to the junction and the dimensions are about 2° by 6°. Simulated emission occurs from filaments in the junction plane; the cross section is about 6 µ by 25 µ. Diode laser emission can be modulated simply by modulating the current. The stimulated optical decay time is at most 0.2 µs. Diodes have been made to amplify light, and various cooperative and quenching effects have been observed in optically-coupled chips. These effects suggest the use of diode lasers as computer elements. In general, diode lasers will find use as intense point light sources."
"Common failure modes of aluminum electrolytic capacitors are due to chemical reactions between electrodes and electrolyte. From capacitance and weight change data and electron micrographs it is proposed that the attack of anode foil is primarily dissolution of oxide dielectric; that of cathode foil involves metal dissolution with hydrogen evolution."
"This paper discusses a method of modifying certain optical comparators so that they may be used as both comparator and high resolution camera. The modifications are uncomplicated and inexpensive. They consist primarily of providing a new light source and a means to hold the photographic plates or film. Since the lenses of the comparator serve as the lenses of the camera, no lens modifications are needed. The system discussed has five discrete reduction capabilities ranging from 10X to 500X. Optical resolution in excess of 500 lines per millimeter has been obtained. A camera system of this type, when compared to the camera ordinarily used for integrated circuit work, has reduced flexibility in certain areas. As an example, one of these areas is the upper limit of the master size. However, in most instances, these limitations can be minimized or circumvented as described."
"Presents a biography of Charles A. Eldon, Past Chairman, G-PMP."
"Before accepting percussive arc welding as a production process for making electrical interconnections, it was necessary to determine the effects of the main variables (materials, equipment, and operators) which are certain to be encountered in production. This report deals with a study made to develop the required information. The variables selected for study were materials (wire lots and connector pin lots), operators, and welding machines, each variable at two levels. Two different wire types were investigated. Statistically designed experiments were performed to determine the effects of these variables upon flexing strength, tensile strength, and electrical resistance. In general, significant effects were found for wire lots, operators, and welding machines (usually as interactions.) Although these effects are significant, the magnitude of the change does not appear to be excessive in terms of mean values. These results show that the process is controllable and that initial process standards can be calculated from the data presented."
"Thin ferrite and garnet films have been prepared by chemically depositing stoichiometric ratios of alcoholic solutions of metal nitrates with divalent and trivalent cations onto ceramic substrates which were then subjected to a firing cycle to form the desired film composition. An experimental 35-Gc/s resonance isolator was made using single or multilayered nickel, zinc, and magnesium films as the nonreciprocal element. A reverse-to-forward loss ratio in excess of 100) to 1 with less than 1 dB insertion loss was attained. The use of these films was also found to have superior isolation properties over slabs cut from bulk materials when deposited onto the active rutile maser crystal in a millimeter travling-wave maser. Crystallographic and ferrimagnetic resonance parameters were also studied, and it was found that at least 90 percent of major phase structure was obtained for each film, and their ferrimagnetic linewidths, measured at X-band, ranged between 125 and 1000 oersteds."
"The interaction of gases with surfaces of solids is briefly reviewed, and some techniques for the study of surface phenomena are outlined. A review is presented of the present state of our understanding of electrical breakdown in vacuum, and some criteria for the best utilization of the insulating properties of vacuum are discussed. Finally, the specific problems of a few devices and components in relation to vacuum are discussed. The devices are particle accelerators, electrostatic generators, vacuum switches, plasma containers, bearings, and transmission lines."
"This paper surveys the wide variety of resin compounds available to meet the demands of modern electronics. It describes the properties and characteristics relevant to choosing a compound for a required performance and reliability and presents some guides for selection and use. Experimental data supports the discussion and comparison of resin properties."
"The cooling of miniaturized equipment is usually handled by forced air flow. An investigation was made of the merits of suction vs pressure cooling, to find an effective cooling design for a certain module assembly. This showed that suction cooling has certain advantages because of the air flow escape from the circuitry section to adjacent spaces. Its air flow pattern provides maximum air accretion at the air exit, which is a critical area. That suction cooling will minimize air temperatures in that area is qualitatively developed and then quantitatively analyzed."
"The steady-state and transient temperature elevations within a composite electronic or microelectronic structure can be analyzed by using a known method of converting a thermal system into an analog electrical system (Reference 1). The temoerature elevations are caused by heat generation and heat flow within an electronic structure and by convection and radiation heat flow away from the structure."
"The excitation of the dominant TM surface wave on an axial-cylindrical reactive surface is discussed. The surface wave launcher consists of a perfectly conducting, infinitely thin cylindrical surface of radiusbcoxial with a cylindrical reactive surface of a radiusawhereb > a. The reactive surface extends from-\\infty <z<\\infty, and the perfectly conducting surface extends from-\\infty<z\\leq0. The incident field is the dominant TM mode in the coaxial portion of the structure propagating in the positivez-direction. Numerical results are obtained for the reflected field, the surface wave field, and the radiation field. These results are then compared with the results that use two approximate aperture distributions. This method of excitation was very efficient over a large range of frequencies and over wide variations in the surface reactance."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Radiation resistance for an elementary loop antenna immersed in a magnetoionic plasma is investigated. Based on an integral expression given by Kogelnik and Motz, extensive numerical results are obtained and their validity and utility are discussed. In addition a simple analytic expression is derived for the case of small magnetic fields."
"A slot covered by a stratified plasma is assumed to radiate into a wide waveguide instead of free space. The slot admittance approximates the free space admittance of the slot for waveguide diameters exceeding 6 to10\\lambda. For thick plasma layers the computed slot admittance checks with earlier admittance calculations for a laterally unbounded plasma. When approximating a plasma profile of a typical hypersonic re-entry, a multilayer plasma model in a wide waveguide appears to provide a more accurate slot admittance than a single-layer approximation in a laterally unbounded geometry."
"In a phased-array steerable-beam antenna, the active impedance of the radiating elements exhibits considerable change with scan angle. Because of this change, it is ordinarily possible to match the active impedance at only one angle. However, by the addition of lossless circuits which interconnect the element lines, good impedance match over a wide range of scan angles may be obtained. The effects of connecting circuits are easily analyzed in terms of simple equivalent circuits when the array is infinite. For this reason, and because no change is required in the radiating element, the connecting-circuit method is well suited for application to phased arrays containing a large number of regularly-spaced elements. As an example of the use of connecting circuits for wide-angle matching of an array, calculations are made for an infinite planar array of dipoles. Scanning the beam of this array within a120\\degcone is assumed to cause a mismatch as great as 14-db SWR at some angles when no connecting circuits are used. With the addition of a set of connecting circuits in theEplane of the array and another set in theHplane, this limit is reduced to 4.5-db SWR. The improvement in this impedance match corresponds to a 2.3-db increase of gain realized by the antenna."
"The problem of wave propagation from a point source to a point of observation through an intermediate slab containing random weak dielectric irregularities is considered. Under the assumption that the spatial correlation of the permittivity is a Gaussian one with correlation distances much larger than the wavelength, the phase and amplitude auto- and cross-correlations are computed for any distance of source and receiver to the slab. Comparison is made to the analyses by Karavainikov and Yeh which are shown to be limiting cases of the present work."
"A linearly polarized wave may be converted to a circularly polarized wave by means of a panel which provides90\\degdifference in transmission phase between two crossed linear components. This phase difference is obtained over a wide frequency band by means of thin sheets containing both inductive and capacitive shunt susceptance. Low reflection and near unity axial ratio may be obtained by means of three sheets which are spaced for least reflection. An experimental polarizer has been constructed using three photo-etched sheets and a dielectric honeycomb core. Over a 20 per cent band the axial ratio of the circular polarization is within 1.7 db and the insertion loss is within 0.5 db. Over a 46 per cent band the axial ratio is less than 2.0 db and the insertion loss is less than 1.0 db."
"A modification of the Pinwheel techniques of observing HF signals propagated over deviated paths was used over Pacific paths on 12, 18 and 30 Mc. Strip-chart records made of CW signals with directive receiving antennas rotating ten times as fast as similar transmitting antennas gave distinct records of deviated scatter signals alone or coexisting with great-circle signals. By the use of precise program timers, combined receiving and transmitting azimuths for strongest signals were obtained. Although scattering from land masses or from equatorial \"spread-echo\" layers seemed a possibility when scatter signals came from a relatively fixed location, most of the results examined indicated, for all frequencies, variable scattering locations on the sea, determined by skip conditions. The method, in refined form, appeared to hold promise both as a research tool and as a means of obtaining additional hours of useful propagation during failure of a great-circle mode. It was believed that the techniques should be investigated as a possible alternative or adjunct to the station-network scheme currently under consideration [13] as a means of routing traffic during arctic disturbances."
"The radiation characteristics of a linear distribution of electric charge moving with a uniform velocity in a homogeneous electron plasma of infinite extent are investigated for the case in which a uniform static magnetic field is impressed externally throughout the medium. The linear distribution of charge and its direction of motion are assumed to be parallel and perpendicular, respectively, to the direction of the external magnetic field. Of the two possible modes of waves of small amplitude, namely, the modified electromagnetic mode and the modified electron plasma mode, the uniformly moving charge distribution excites the modified electron plasma mode. The emitted radiation has no frequencies less than the plasma frequency. For a particular value of the ratio of the gyrotropic to the plasma frequency of the electrons, the frequency and the angular spectrum of the emitted radiation are determined for two values of the velocity of the charge."
"Apparatus is described which generates a continuously flowing plasma and simultaneously gives a measure of its conductivity. The plasma is not in thermodynamic equilibrium. Although highly conductive, it is relatively cool, thereby obviating the need for high temperature materials and techniques. The theoretical foundation for the conductivity measurement is outlined and the calibration of the apparatus is described. A method of scaling the device to higher power levels is discussed."
"The radiation characteristics of a line source of magnetic current embedded in an unbounded plasma are investigated for the case in which a uniform magnetic field is impressed externally throughout the medium in the direction of the source. The plasma is assumed to be a homogeneous and macroscopically neutral mixture of compressible gas of electrons and ions. A two-fluid continuum theory of plasma dynamics is employed. It is shown that it is possible to define three suitable wave functions which satisfy separately simple wave equations whose solutions are written down by inspection. These wave functions specify the three possible modes which are identified, respectively, to be the modified forms of the electromagnetic, the electron plasma and the ion plasma modes. The limiting behavior of these modes are discussed for the following two cases: 1) infinite source frequency and 2) vanishing external magnetic field. The dispersion relations for the three modes are examined in detail for the general case using a perturbation procedure. It is shown that the modified ion plasma (MIP) mode propagates for all frequencies whereas both the modified electron plasma (MEP) mode and the modified electromagnetic (MEM) mode have a low-frequency cutoff. Explicit expressions for the cutoff frequencies are obtained. The power radiated in each of the three modes is also evaluated. It is found that the power radiated in the MEM mode is always lower than that due to the line source in free space, whereas the power radiated in the two plasma modes is higher than that value for certain ranges of frequency."
"Studies are made of both the driving-point impedance and the amplitude and phase distributions of the current in a circular loop which is driven by an arbitrary number of delta-function generators and loaded with an arbitrary number of lumped impedances. The only restriction imposed in the present treatment is that the elements (either generator or load) are spaced at equal intervals of2\\pib/malong the circumference wheremis the total number of elements andbis the radius of the loop. The numerical calculations include loads with negative resistances in order to take account of loops loaded with an element like an Esaki tunnel diode, with proper precautions against both self-oscillation and switching effects. A study of such precautions is to be considered separately. The experimental results agree quite well with theory except for the larger values of\\beta b. The radiation patterns of the loop antennas with\\beta b=1loaded with various resistors were also measured."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The radiation from electromagnetic sources in an unbounded, isotropic plasma is treated. Using a two-fluid magnetohydrodynamic approach, the problem is formulated in terms of three orthogonal modes, namely, i) the electromagnetic mode, ii) the electron plasma mode and iii) the ion plasma mode. When formulated in this manner, the radiation from simple electromagnetic sources are obtained easily. Three specific sources are treated, namely, i) a point source of electric current, ii) a uniformly moving charge and iii) a short filament with prescribed current distribution. For the case of the electric dipole and the current filament, the total power radiated in each of the three modes are obtained. A point charge moving uniformly with the velocity of sound, for example, is found to excite only the ion plasma mode. The frequency and the angular spectrum of the emitted radiation are obtained. It is found that at frequencies less than a critical frequency which is approximately equal to\\sqrt{2}times the ion plasma frequency, the radiation has the character of a simple sound wave."
"Each discrete complex wave supported by a uniaxial layer corresponds to an isolated singularity in an appropriate Green's function. The location of a singularity depends on the geometry, plasma density, and the direction of the magnetic field, but not on the source. We have derived the discrete solutions for an infinite magnetic field that is parallel or perpendicular to the slab interfaces. For a parallel field, analytic expressions are obtained that yield the exact locations of the complex pole Ioci. Although similar expressions cannot be obtained if the field is perpendicular, the resonance relation which locates the poles can be solved by methods developed for an isotropic plasma. We find that improper modes and surface waves can be supported in the case of a parallel field, while a perpendicular field permits spectral complex modes as well. These results are applied to a Kirchhoff-Huygens integration of the leaky-wave distribution excited by a magnetic line source or an annular slot. A close correlation is shown between the radiation pattern derived by this procedure and the exact pattern calculated by the method of steepest descent. In particular, it is shown that the appearance of a peak in the pattern can be analytically correlated with the contributing pole, provided it corresponds to a dominant leaky wave."
"Investigations were made of the radiating and circuit properties of circular loop antennas when immersed in conducting media with various loss tangents. The following quantities were experimentally examined and compared with the available theoretical results. 1) Driving point admittanceY_{in}of circular loops as a function of the circumference per wavelength,2\\pib/\\lambda = \\betab. 2) Current amplitude and phase distributions. 3) Field patterns. In each case the loss tangent\\sigma/\\omega\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}of the medium (conductivity\\sigma, permittivity\\epsilon_{r}\\epsilon_{0}) is taken as a parameter. The experimental results are in good agreement with the theory. A comparison between the behavior of the loop in a conducting medium and those of a linear dipole was made wherever possible. It was discovered that there is a cut off size beyond which the driving point admittance of a linear dipole is the same whether or not its ends are connected to form a loop. This particular loss tangent is 1.06, and the cut off size is\\lambda/2. A circular loop antenna with\\betab= 1.0is excited predominantly in a dipole mode and its field pattern resembles that of a two element dipole array. A study was made to determine how this pattern becomes more like that of a monopole as the loss tangent of the solution is increased."
"This paper presents a theory for, and a method of designing a thinned or broad-band antenna array by means of unequal spacings. Using the theory of unequally spaced arrays developed by one of the authors, an antenna array can be designed to produce a desired beamwidth and sidelobe level with the average spacing many wavelengths apart. The patterns are expressed in a series of the Anger functions and its sidelobe level is shown to decrease approximately asN^{-0.5}\\simN^{-0.4}whereNis the total number of elements, and the gain is approximately equal toN. It is also shown that the sidelobe level can be improved by varying the amplitude distribution. Numerical examples are given to illustrate the method."
"The use of cellular or foamed plastics in various microwave applications, such as supports at radar ranges, makes it desirable to know the back scattering properties of such materials. Since the cell structure is of a random nature with some predictable average properties such as cell size and density, it is modeled by an aggregate of randomly distributed spherical shells. Assemblies of scatterers will in general have a coherent and an incoherent scatter. Coherent scattering comes primarily from sudden particle density changes such as that at the boundaries of a particle system. Since coherent scattering comes only from the boundaries of a constant density material, it can sometimes be reduced by appropriate shaping. Incoherent scattering is the result of the contribution of all the particles in the system, i.e, a volume or an interior effect. It represents the irreducible scattering contribution to the total back scatter. As such it can be looked upon as the minimum cross section that can be obtained from a foam structure provided all coherent scatter has been removed. The magnitude of the incoherent scattering is illustrated by calculating radar cross sections for a cylinder made of styrofoam. Since the compressive strength of styrofoam is known, the maximum load that a styrofoam structure can support and the minimum achievable cross section from it can be easily calculated."
"Measurements of the broadside radiation from an anisotropic plasma-covered slot are compared with theoretical predictions which neglect input impedance changes and coupling to electroacoustic or Tonks-Dattner resonances. For a magnetic field normal to the plasma layer, the results demonstrate transmission enhancement and underscore the necessity of a strong field (\\omega_{c} > \\omega). They also highlight some of the limitations of existing theoretical treatments. In particular, it is concluded that collisional damping, impedance variations, and electroacoustic resonances must be included for an accurate prediction of magnetic field effects. The experimental system consists of a narrow aperture in a large ground screen covered by a bank of long discharge tubes which are collectively equivalent to a plane layer. All measurements are performed at a fixed frequency of 565 Mc during the afterglow of the pulsed discharge."
"This paper is concerned with examining in the laboratory the backscattering from a simplified ionized target in the form of an extended laminar plasma column. Measured results, compared with calculations based on a homogeneous model approximation that incorporates the measured electrical parameters of the column, show that the column scatters electromagnetic energy that is polarized with the electric vector along the axis of the column in the same manner as a homogeneous column of critical density with the column radius equal to that of the critical electron density contained within the column."
"An analysis is made of the scattering of radio waves by plasmas in which turbulent variations of free-electron number density occur. Second-order terms for the scattered field are included. An additional term (as compared to the first-order Born approximation) is found in the expression for the scattering cross section, This term is proportional to\\gama(\\omega_{p}/\\omega)^{2}where\\gamais a numerical factor determined by the scale of the turbulence."
"In two earlier papers [1], [2] the diffraction of a surface wave by a fight-angle wedge was treated; one face of this wedge is perfectly conducting and the other is reactive. It was pointed out that the Kirchhoff theory of diffraction provides a useful approximation here. A readily calculable result has not been obtained for wedge angles other than90\\deg and 180\\deg, so the diffraction patterns for various wedge angles are calculated here by the Kirchhoff approximation and compared with some measured patterns of a wedge excited by a very narrow H-plane sectorial horn. Both the calculated and measured patterns show that in general the wedge angle has a relatively small effect on the diffraction pattern of a loosely bound surface wave, except when the wedge angle is close to180\\deg."
"Several important effects on radio transmission occur during the reentry of a space vehicle into the earth's atmosphere. Of these effects, signal variation due to changes in antenna admittance may be significant. These changes result from the formation of an ionized sheath about the vehicle as it reenters the atmosphere. The sheath may have a profound effect on the propagation of electromagnetic waves and may thereby modify the antenna admittance characteristics. Knowledge of the input admittance of the antenna enables one to compute the field amplitudes at the antenna input terminals when fed by a specified power source and, from this, to determine the change in radiated signal level that results from antenna mismatch. This change in radiated signal level is in addition to that due to pattern distortion. Besides the change in radiated signal level, the reflected wave may adversely affect operation of the transmitter and may even result in transmitter burnout. This report investigates the changes in input admittance of a rectangular waveguide terminated in a groundplane covered by a uniform plasma slab contiguous with the groundplane. Such radiators provide wide angular pattern coverage and find application as telemetry and communication antennas in reentry vehicles. Numerical calculations have been performed for the case of lossless plasmas in which the electron densities are all below the critical density, i.e., the effective relative permittivity of the slab ranges between zero and unity. Curves of input conductance and susceptance for this configuration are given as a function of relative permittivity for several slab thicknesses. These admittance values are used to compute reflection coefficients and signal loss resulting from mismatch. These are also presented graphically. The calculations show that, except for thin slabs, the aperture admittance is very close to that for a slab of infinite thickness. A qualitative explanation of this effect is also given."
"A method has been developed for calculating the scattering from an infinitely long cylinder of arbitrary (but smooth) cross section. The equations have been programmed for a computer and monostatic and bistatic cross sections calculated for circular and elliptic cylinders. A number of checks and limiting cases are applied to the results in order to establish the limits within which the assumed expansion gives acceptable numerical results. For the case of monostatic scattering from circular cylinders a numerical check is possible and the result was in agreement with Mie series calculations to six significant figures."
"In this paper steady-state formulas are developed for the ratio of the resultant electromagnetic field in the screened space formed by dual, infinite, homogeneous metal plates to the incident field, and from these transfer functions the time history of the field in the cavity is computed for Gaussian-shaped input fields."
"This paper investigates the optimization and synthesis of nonuniformly spaced arrays with respect to the flattening of their grating plateaux. The analysis begins with the proof that the exponential spacing gives flat space-factor grating plateaux, using Poisson's sum and the stationary phase method. The theory then is generalized to include arrays of nonisotropic elements. It is found that results of the above analysis can be reduced to very simple forms. Through the use of Parseval's theorem, the theory of the space-factor gain of nonuniformly spaced arrays is also developed."
"TheH-plane radiation patterns of a slot antenna set in a large ground plane and covered by a grid of wires are analyzed. In the analytic model the grid of wires is treated as a thin plasma sheet with a known surface impedance. The agreement between the mathematical model and the experimental data reaffirms the fact that a grid of wires may be used to simulate a thin plasma sheet."
"A nearly vertical antenna wire varying in length from 3000 to 8000 ft was shock-excited by a high-voltage source. The resulting radiation fields were received at distances of about 600 km by two stations separated laterally so as to subtend an angle of about15\\degat the source. The difference in wavefront arrival times at the two stations, observed for 101 transmissions, showed an average absolute deviation from the mean of about only\\frac{1}{2}\\muS. This figure includes the effects of possible source asymmetries, sferics noise, instrumental errors, and wave propagation. Typical oscillograms of antenna currents and radiation fields are given. It is shown that the amplitudes and durations of the pulse envelopes, the amplitudes and durations of the first half-cycles, and the quasi-frequencies of the pulses are in good agreement with a theory that takes energy losses into account."
"Formulation and results are presented of a digital computer program, which analyzes the electrical effects of a metal space frame radome, using a single scattering approximation. Under the assumption of uniform or nearly uniform distribution of space frame elements over the surface of the radome, simple approximate formulas are presented for the same effects. Computed values agree well with measured data. The effects of shaping the element cross section, varying the radome geometry, and varying the frequency have been systematically studied in certain cases. The results are presented here as applications of the theory. The effects of multiple scattering have been measured and also analyzed by an approximate theory so that they are fairly well understood. Formulas for the effects of radome tolerances on electrical performance are given."
"A small circular loop antenna is located in an insulating layer within a dissipative medium. The admittance of the loop is calculated using a two-term trial function for the loop current in a variational formulation. Thin insulating layers tend to maintain a nearly uniform current around the small loop, in particular for highly lossy surrounding media. The assumption of a uniform loop current is shown to be justified for a range of antenna parameters."
"The response of an antenna to dc pulse excitation, both in reception and in transmission, can be determined by use of Fourier transforms provided the complex impedance and complex effective height of the antenna are known over the frequency range where the excitation has significant components. We have computed the time history of the response of a wide-angle conical antenna to dc pulse excitation and show the results herein for a matched source in transmission and a matched load in reception for several values of cone angle and antenna length. Under matched conditions, the faithful transmission of a pulse shape, requires a long antenna while faithful reception is not possible. Faithful reception can be achieved by a short antenna with a resistive load of high resistance or with a capacitive load, or by a long antenna with a series RC load. Since this work required transfer functions in transmission and reception, we have also presented here graphs of these quantities."
"A reciprocity theorem for electromagnetic fields with general time dependence has been derived in the time domain, and thus the result is applicable to fields whose time dependences are not Fourier transformable functions. The region to which the theorem applies may consist of dissipative, dispersive, nonhomogeneous, and anisotropic (but nongyrotropic) media, and all these properties may extend to infinity. Based on this theorem a variational expression which provides an approximation for calculating scattered fields has been obtained. The meaning of the approximation for the fields as arbitrary functions of time is discussed, together with three types of practical detecting systems, namely, square law, full-wave bridge, and single diode. For the latter two types, it is found that the variational expression yields an upper bound to the signal at the output of the detector."
"The metallic cone-sphere is the prototype for many low cross-sectional shapes, and in recent years it has been receiving an increasing amount of attention. In spite of the simplicity of its mathematical form, it is still a shape for which no exact solution of the boundary-value problem is available, and to calculate the cross section we must rely on approximate methods with such refinements and extensions as experimental data may demand. We here present some new data for both the backscattered and the surface fields at nose-on incidence and deduce therefrom a modification to the accepted theory sufficient to explain the results."
"The theory of a transmitting biconical antenna in a radially and continuously stratified medium is developed; its input impedance is computed and plotted vs. its length for various media and cone angles. The medium extends to infinity and is characterized by a complex dielectric factor\\xi=\\epsilon-i\\sigma/\\omega=\\epsilon_{0}f(r), whereris the radial distance from the center of the antenna. For the \"stratification function\" the formf(r)= (kr+a)/(kr+b)is considered, whereaandbare constant parameters, in general complex. The plots clearly exhibit all effects of dissipation and stratification expected on physical grounds and observed experimentally for dipole antennas."
"An equivalence relation of a family of arrays defined under a linear transformation is established. By means of this theorem, the far field of an elliptical array can be obtained from that of an equivalent circular array; the theorem can be similarly applied to two- and three-dimensional arrays. A uniformly excited cophasal elliptical array is considered as an example. For nonuniform excitation, the method of symmetrical components may be applied despite the absence of axial symmetry for elliptical arrays. This theory can also be applied to the case of continuous source distribution on an ellipse or in an elliptical aperture. In so doing, solutions can be obtained without use of the complicated wave functions pertaining to the original geometry. As an example, an optimum array in the sense of Dolph-Chebyshev is considered. Similarly, a Taylor distribution for an elliptical aperture can be achieved."
"The problem of scattering of a plane electromagnetic wave from an arbitrary metallic body of revolution is solved by a theoretical method for arbitrary incidence and polarization. The method permits numerical computations by high-speed digital computers, and examples are given. The incident wave is expanded in cylindrical modes, and an integral equation is solved for the induced current distribution of each mode. The scattering cross section, including the back-scattering or radar cross section, is found by summation of the mode scattered fields. The method is limited to a maximum perimeter length of twenty wavelengths. While the cases discussed in the paper pertain to perfectly conducting bodies, other surface boundary conditions, an arbitrary surface impedance or coatings by lossy dielectrics, can also be treated with equal precision."
"Endfire antennas develop maximum gain when the phase velocity of the surface wave traveling along the structure is adjusted to its optimum value determined as a function of antenna length and operating frequency. These antennas usually have a relatively small pattern bandwidth and, if maximum gain is desired, can be used over only a small frequency range. The antennas described in this paper inaugurate a new class of antennas that are tunable for maximum gain in the endfire direction over a wide frequency range; tuning is accomplished by changing the phase velocity continuously or in prescribed steps. Such antennas include certain configurations of the double helix (a novel type of endfire antenna) and its artificial and natural dielectric variants. Useful structures are obtained through parallel displacement of two juxtaposed elements or angular displacement of a scissors arrangement. Model measurements show that maximum gain can be obtained over a frequency range of more than 2:1. Tuning effects are illustrated in detail by means of near-field plots of a tuned dielectric antenna."
"Wait has calculated the impedance seen by a small circular loop of wire placed in an insulating spherical cavity in an infinite homogeneous conducting dielectric. The same technique may be used to compute the impedance of a loop inside a spherical shell. Attention is focused on the change in impedance of an electrically small wire loop when it is placed inside a spherical shell of lossy dielectric material whose radius is small compared to the free-space wavelength. The self-impedance in the absence of the shell can be calculated separately. Simple formulas are developed for the case where the conduction currents in the shell dominate over displacement currents and the shell is thin compared to the skin depth."
"This paper describes the characteristics of the 16-foot diameter millimeter wavelength antenna system at the Electrical Engineering Research Laboratory, University of Texas, Austin, Tex. Aperture efficiencies of the antenna at the frequencies of 35, 70 and 94 Gc are 59 per cent, 55 per cent and 52 per cent, respectively, corresponding to gain and beamwidths of 62.5 dB and0.118\\degat 35 Gc/s, of 68.5 dB and of 70.9 dB and0.048\\degat 94 Gc/s. First sidelobes and other sidelobes over the 35- to 94-Gc/s frequency interval are -18 dB and -25 dB, respectively. The 70-Gc/s radiation temperatures of Jupiter and the earth's moon have been measured. The brightness temperature of Jupiter was found to be112 \\pm 22\\degK and the maximum brightness temperature contour of the moon was270\\degK. Relatively higher emission temperatures were observed from the maria and the craters of Copernicus and Tycho than from surrounding lunar areas."
"A theory is presented on the minimization of the backscattering of a cylinder by loading a cylinder at two points with lumped impedances. The induced current on a doubly loaded cylinder when illuminated by a plane electromagnetic wave at an arbitrary angle is obtained. The optimum loading to eliminate the broadside backscattering which is caused by the symmetrical component of the induced current is established. A suitable loading to reduce the off-broadside backscattering, due to the antisymmetrical component of the induced current, is also determined. A proper choice of the impedance and the position of double loading can lead to the reduction of the backscattering over a wide aspect range. The useful formulas for optimum loading and some graphical illustrations are included. The advantages of double loading over central loading are discussed."
"The effect of compressibility on the characteristics of the waves guided by the ionosphere is studied using a simple model which consists of a perfectly conducting flat earth and a sharply bounded and a uniform ionosphere with a sharp rigid boundary, without losses or anisotropy due to the earth's magnetic field. The compressibility of the ionosphere introduces an exponential damping for frequencies greater than approximately the electron plasma frequency for the fast waveguide modes, which in an incompressible ionosphere propagate without any attenuation even above the plasma frequency. Also the propagation range of the slow-wave mode (n = 0), which does not propagate above1/\\sqrt{2}times the plasma frequency in a cold ionosphere, is extended indefinitely beyond that critical frequency. The compressibility is found to have negligible effect on the wave propagation in the VLF band. For a source situated on the earth and radiating in the VLF band, the power transmitted by the slow-wave mode and the first three waveguide modes are evaluated. The excitation of the slow-wave mode is found to be comparable in magnitude to that of the waveguide modes in the lower end of the VLF band but in the higher frequency end the power radiated by the slow-wave mode is shown to be negligible."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper introduces a method for calculating the total antenna pattern in theEplane, including the backlobe region, of a horn by applying diffraction theory. Treatment of diffraction by a thick edge permits horns of various edge thicknesses to be treated. The diffraction concepts developed by Sommerfeld and Pauli, which treated plane wave diffraction by a wedge, are extended so that diffraction of plane and cylindrical waves by thin or thick edges may be treated. The diffracted fields are obtained by applying the relations developed by Pauli in conjunction with reciprocity. When the theory is applied to the horn, the significant radiation mechanisms are direct radiation from the source at the horn apex and diffracted radiation due to the edges. The computedE-plane patterns of a horn antenna agree with measured patterns."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The customary analysis of radiation from sources in the presence of a dielectric slab involves a plane-wave superposition wherein the boundary conditions are satisfied by a single composite reflection coefficient. The far field is then comprised of the incident and reflected waves as well as a diffracted contribution of surface and leaky waves (pole waves). An alternative formulation is discussed wherein the interface effects are accounted for one at a time and the resulting diffraction field is then shown to involve lateral waves (branch-cut waves). The two representations are compared and their respective utility is illustrated by examples. When the source and observation points are located exterior to a large dielectric gap, diffraction effects due to an accumulation of leaky waves are found to be equivalent to a single lateral wave. For source and observation points inside a lossy dielectric slab, the pole-wave formulation provides a somewhat more convenient but physically less transparent result than the one comprising lateral waves."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Three instruments are described which are useful in equalizing path lengths in large antenna arrays. With each instrument the difference in length between two paths is measured directly, thereby avoiding many of the difficulties in measuring very long paths. A gas discharge tube, used as a modulated reflector, is placed at each of two antenna elements of an array. A null in the detected modulation occurs when the paths leading to the reflectors are equalized in length. The accuracy, limited by instability of the discharge tubes, is about3\\degin phase at a wavelength of 10 cm. With the most sensitive instrument, this accuracy is maintained when there is a two-way loss of as much as 100 dB between each reflector and the receiver terminal of the array."
"The theory and equations are developed for the scattering pattern of a dielectric cylinder of arbitrary cross section shape. The harmonic incident wave is assumed to have its electric vector parallel with the axis of the cylinder, and the field intensities are assumed to be independent of distance along the axis. Solutions are readily obtained for inhomogeneous cylinders when the permittivity is independent of distance along the cylinder axis. Although other investigators have approximated the field within the dielectric body by the incident field, we treat the total field as an unknown function which is determined by solving a system of linear equations. In the case of the dielectric cylindrical shell of circular cross section, this technique yields results which agree accurately with the exact classical solution. Scattering patterns are also presented in graphical form for a dielectric shell of semicircular cross section, a thin homogeneous plane dielectric sheet of finite width, and an inhomogeneous plane sheet. The effects of surface-wave excitation and mutual interaction among the various portions of the dielectric shell are included automatically in this solutiom"
"A method has been developed for simulating a large planar phased-array antenna in order to determine the performance of its radiating elements. By simple measurements of a few elements inside of waveguides, their performance in the antenna array as a function of frequency, scan angle, and polarization may be determined. The number of elements that need to be constructed is small, and the method is well-suited to economical, empirical design of an element for an array having a very large number of elements. For this purpose, such an array is well represented by the infinite array which results from imaging by the waveguide walls. Five waveguide simulators, sampling five significant combinations of scan angle and polarization, have been developed for a particular array comprising circular elements in a square arrangement. The array impedance has been measured in the simulators, and from these measurements the reflection loss of the array has been calculated. An equivalent circuit for the element in the array has been obtained from two simple waveguide-impedance measurements, and the active impedance of the elements has been determined therefrom. Finally, these results have been employed to determine the behavior of the elements when the array is excited for circular polarization; the departure from circularity of the radiated polarization, as well as the reflection in both senses of circular polarization, have been obtained."
"The distribution of current along a center-driven cylindrical antenna is obtained when the material forming the antenna is resistive. The particular case is considered when the impedance per unit length of the antenna is a function of the distance from the end. A solution is obtained specifically when the current is represented by an outward traveling wave with no reflected wave. The admittance of the antenna and the far-field pattern is determined. Field patterns are evaluated for a wide range of lengths. These are characterized by a single major lobe with a very small minor lobe structure."
"This paper presents an analytical solution for the radiation field of an axially slotted, infinite, circular cylinder which is covered with a uniform layer of an anisotropic plasma sheath. Numerical results are obtained and radiation patterns plotted for various degrees of plasma anisotropy. It is shown that the radiation pattern undergoes rapid changes for certain ranges of plasma parameters and forms well-defined, directive beams for other ranges. Curves showing the effect of the thickness of the plasma sheath on the radiation characteristics are also given."
"The feasibility of direct numerical calculations of antenna integral equations is investigated. It is shown that integral equation of Hallen's type is the most adequate for such applications. The extension of Hallen's integral equation to describe thin wire antennas of arbitrary geometry is accomplished, and results are presented for dipole, circular loops, and equiangular spiral antennas."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In the past, periodic structures have been extensively studied for guided waves along the surface, or for plane wave excitation. However, very little has been reported concerning the problem of exciting periodic structures by a localized source. The essential difficulty of this problem is due to the aperiodic nature of the source. This paper presents a study of a two-dimensional periodic structure excited by a magnetic line source. The structure consists of a grounded dielectric slab covered by a periodically slotted conducting plane. From the continuity of the fields in the slots, an infinite system of integral equations for the aperture fields is derived. Under the assumption of narrow slots, these equations are converted into a single integral equation by the use of the sampling technique, and the solution is expressed in an inverse Fourier transform. The integrand is then converted into a form of space harmonics which contains an infinite number of poles and branch points. The relationship between these singularities and thek-\\betadiagram is clearly demonstrated. The radiation pattern is calculated and compared with experimental data. The Wood anomalies associated with leaky waves and the Rayleigh wavelength, and in particular, the relationship between the behavior of the field near the Rayleigh wavelength and the lateral waves are discusssed."
"The axial echo area of a perfecfiy conducting prolate spheroid is derived from an approximate solution to a transient scattering problem. This solution is obtained by modifying the time-dependent back-scattered waveform for a perfectly conducting sphere so as to conform with the spheroid geometry. As a result of the analysis, the echo area vs. source frequency may be predicted over the resonance region. Calculated results for the case of a spheroid with a 2-to-1 axial ratio are compared with experimental data for major axes ranging from 0.318 to 1.59 wavelengths."
"An analysis of the fields of a plasma coated conducting cylinder of infinite extent, excited by an infinite axial slot, is presented for large radius cylinders. The saddle point evaluation of the radiation fields is discussed for uniform low-loss plasma layers of arbitrary thickness and index of refraction. Patterns are presented and compared with the flat layer case, and the effect of the curvature on the pattern is discussed. The residue series evaluation is considered and a method of determining the poles is discussed. The locus of the first pole for thin lossless dielectric layers is presented and the transition from leaky waves to surface waves is discussed as a function of the dielectric constant and radius of curvature."
"An antenna has been built for the purpose of studying radio astronomical phenomena at long wavelengths. The beamwidth of this antenna is 14 minutes E-W and 92 minutes N-S at a wavelength of 11.4 meters. Therefore, its resolution is comparable to that of present day arrays operating in the meter wavelength range and to that of large parabolas operating at decimeter and centimeter wavelengths."
"To account for shadowing in investigations of scattering by rough surfaces, the area subtending the surface is multiplied by a shadowing function equal to the ratio of illuminated to total area. This is derived for a surface generated by a stationary process in general and a normal process in particular. The resulting height distribution of the surface, when only its illuminated parts are considered, is also derived; this is used to determine the effect of shadowing by a more rigorous method."
"This paper describes a new class of electrically small antennas, of which the principal advantages are the resistive input impedance, the radiation resistance transformation which may be obtained within the structure, and the variety of shapes which the antennas may take. The antennas incorporate resonant half-wave windings, and a simple transmission line theory is presented by which antenna efficiency and bandwidth may be calculated. Experimental methods and results are described for antennas in the order of 0.01 wavelength in height and 0.05 wavelength in diameter."
"This paper discusses the design and construction of a branch-fed, variable-phase, 20 to 55 Mc array of 48 log-periodic elements. Phasing to control-beam direction is described and the correction necessary for ionospheric refraction is presented in terms of vertical incidence critical frequency. The array gain as measured by moon-bounce techniques is found to be in good agreement with the theoretical value."
"This paper describes a highly sensitive radiometer which features a degenerate parametric amplifier operating near ambient temperature. Some important techniques used to assure requisite stability are discussed in detail and a significant problem, namely that of self-generated interference, is briefly examined. Observational results are presented to demonstrate the performance of the system, which has a sensitivity of0.05\\degK with a time constant of 10 seconds."
"It is generally known that a symmetrical bootlace lens having two pairs of conjugate foci can be designed. Additionally, there is a bootlace lens, the R-2R, which focuses perfectly at infinitely many points. It is shown in this paper that the R-2R is unique; there are no other perfect bootlace lenses and, in fact, no others with more than two pairs of conjugate off-axis foci."
"The simplest concept of a phased array is an infinite planar current sheet backed by a reflecting boundary. The electric current sheet, or resistance sheet, is the limiting case of many small electric dipoles, closely spaced, and backed by an open-circuit boundary. If this array is viewed as a receiver, a plane wave incident on the array at some angle (\\theta) meets a boundary resistance varying in proportion to\\cos \\thetafor angles in theHplane, and1/\\cos \\thetafor angles in theEplane. If the array is matched at broadside (\\theta=0), the corresponding reflection coefficient has the magnitude(\\tan \\frac{1}{2}\\theta)^{2}. While the electric current sheet is realizable, the open-circuit boundary is not. However, a magnetic current sheet can be simulated by a conductive sheet with holes utilized as magnetic dipoles, such a sheet providing the backing equivalent to a short-circuit boundary. The latter case is related to the former by electromagnetic inversion or duality. Therefore, an incident plane wave meets a boundary conductance varying in proportion to\\cos \\thetafor angles in theEplane, and1/\\cos \\thetafor angles in theHplane. The predicted behavior is verified qualitatively by tests of such a model with elements of a practice size. The derivation is based on the principle of dividing the space in front of the array into parallel tubes or waveguides, one for each element cell in the sheet or array. This is one of the principles published by the author in 1948. A related principle enables the simulation of an infinite array by imaging a few elements in the walls of a waveguide. This latter principle is utilized for making tests of the array."
"The distribution of current in bare circular loop antennas has been evaluated from the theory of T. T. Wu. Computations have been made for loops in air and in an infinite homogeneous isotropic dissipative medium. Currents are shown graphically for loops with circumferences up to two wavelengths in media, with\\alpha/\\betaranging from zero to one, wherek=\\beta-j\\alphais the complex wave number."
"The diffractor grating is a new version of the microwave passive repeater developed to improve the transmission qualities of links utilizing mountain diffraction. It has special advantages in the high-frequency region, as well as in the 11-Gc/s common carrier band, where the construction of a large-aperture flat reflector encounters difficulties and becomes uneconomical. Principles and characteristics of diffractor grating are given with test results. Various factors affecting the diffractor grating behavior are investigated, and comparisons are made with the double-plane reflector system. The diffractor grating is shown to be applicable to short-haul microwave systems and possibly reduce construction costs."
"An experimental meteor-burst link between Seattle, Washington, and Bozeman, Montana, is described and results of various propagation tests are presented. During the early tests, it was noted that the signals reflected from individual meteor trails exhibited extremely stable phase characteristics. This result led to a series of experiments devoted primarily to determining the degree of phase stability reflected VHF signals possess. It was found that the propagation medium was capable of timing accuracies on the order of several hundred nanoseconds. A demonstration time synchronization system using meteor-burst propagation was designed and has been operating for the better part of a year. This system, which provides timing accuracies of about 15 microseconds, is described."
"A formal and asymptotic solution has been obtained for boundary waves which are supported by an infinite plane impedance boundary with a linearly varying impedance. The asymptotic solution (with respect to large distance from the origin) has three terms which are recognized as an incident, a reflected boundary wave, and a radiated wave. It is found that an increasing rate of change of the boundary impedance corresponds to more tightly bound boundary waves, to a power reflection coefficient approaching unity, and to a radiation efficiency approaching zero."
"The simulation of a plasma sheath using an artificial dielectric is studied in this investigation and is applied to an antenna geometry which is similar to some configurations encountered in aerospace applications. The antenna configuration is equivalent to a horn in an infinite ground plane with an unbounded plasma layer in front of the horn. The plasma layer is simulated by a rodded medium, and the radiation patterns of the antenna system are studied experimentally at 9, 10, and 11 Gc/s. Two constructions of rodded media are utilized in the pattern measurements. The experimentally determined radiation patterns have a secondary maximum associated with the properties of the plasma sheath. More energy is radiated in the OFF-axis region when the plasma sheath is present."
"The problem of a magnetic line source in a ground plane coated with a warm plasma slab is investigated. Consideration is given to electromagnetic and plasma waves in the slab and to the coupling at the boundaries between these waves and the free-space fields. An integral expression for the radiation field is obtained and is evaluated by the method of steepest descent. The resulting radiation patterns display interesting effects due to electron pressure near the electron plasma frequency, and these are discussed with the help of the transmission line analog to the problem. The surface-wave poles are located and discussed using this same analog."
"The radiation in a warm plasma due to an axially oriented electric dipole on the axis of a cylindrical column of insulation of infinite length is studied using the linearized continuum plasma theory, and approximate boundary conditions. Two types of surface waves are excited along the cylindrical column of free space immersed in a plasma and their dispersion and power relations are examined. The uncoupled electromagnetic (EM) and the plasma (P) space waves are excited. The radiation pattern and the normalized radiation resistance of the EM and the P modes are studied both as a function of frequency and as the radius of the insulating column. The effect of the insulating column is found to be very significant only in the case of the P mode. It is found that the power transfer into the P mode becomes less at higher frequencies and larger thickness of the insulation. The results of this investigation may be used to predict in a crude manner the effect of the \"ion sheath\" that is formed around the antenna in the ionosphere."
"A problem of importance in model scattering work is the extent to which requirements on tolerance and surface finish can be relaxed before affecting the accuracy of measured scattering data. The consequences of minor shape perturbations are examined by considering several different types of scattering contribution, and a brief discussion of roughness is presented. The results are translated into criteria on tolerance and surface finish and it is concluded that accuracies of10^{-3}of a wavelength should be sufficient for all practical purposes. Some experimental data on spheres and cone-spheres of varying degrees of roughness are presented for comparison."
"The presence of a reflected component in a line-of-sight radio system influences the phase variability resulting from atmospheric changes along and near the path. An analysis is made of a simple case showing the general nature of this effect and the parameters upon which it depends. A method is presented for calculating the phase behavior of the resultant signal, in terms of that expected from a single direct component, and the relevant system parameters."
"An integral equation for the propagation constant along an infinitely long Yagi structure is derived by expanding the vector potential function for such an array in terms of the spatial harmonic solutions of wave theory. This equation is shown to be identical with the integral equation derived on the basis of array theory and transformed by the Poisson summation formula. With the identity of array theory and this new wave theory formation established, the wave theory is used to discuss allowed wave solutions and the physical characteristics required of dipoles in order that they support a wave solution. The fundamental integral equation is solved by means of the array theory of King and Sandler; the numerical results are found to agree quite well with previously published data. Finally, the problem of two parallel nonstaggered Yagi arrays is considered, and it is shown that the propagation constant of the composite structure either decreases or increases over that of the isolated array depending upon whether the symmetric or the antisymmetric mode is excited. Some peculiar effects are noted with respect to this antisymmetric solution, and these lead to the existence of conditions under which no unattenuated wave solution is possible. This is referred to as the \"cutoff condition.\" Numerical results are achieved which agree very well with experimental data obtained as part of this research."
"The balanced conical logarithmic-spiral antenna is considered as a slow-wave locally periodic structure with a slowly varying period. A study of the near fields and their relationship to the far fields has led to the identification of the active region or effective radiating aperture on the antenna and to a clearer understanding of its operating characteristics. Information of the near- and far-field characteristics and on the input impedance for a wide range of parameters is presented in a form suitable for use in the design of practical antennas."
"Numerical results for attenuation of centimeter waves by rainfall have been computed from J. W. Ryde's formula. These correct, and considerably extend, the previously published Ryde results. Comparison with available measurements suggests that the agreement is not entirely satisfactory; there is a tendency for measured attenuations to exceed the maximum possible levels predicted by the theory."
"In this paper the Maxwell-Minkowski equations are used to find a general integral for the electromagnetic fields in an infinite moving medium. The medium is assumed to be homogeneous, isotropic, and to move with a constant velocity much less than the speed of light. Only time-harmonic fields are considered. A wave equation for the electric field is derived and is integrated by means of a Green's Identity and an appropriately defined Dyadic Green's Function. The result gives the electric field inside a volume of space in terms of known sources in the volume and the tangential components of the electric and magnetic fields over the enclosing surface. Finally, the fields radiated by a point dipole are found."
"The magneto-ionic theory for drifting plasma for the case of oblique incidence is developed by using matrix analysis. Theqvariable may be evaluated from a determinantal equation. The present theory reduces, in particular cases, to the Booker quartic and to the magneto-ionic theory for drifting plasma developed previously by the author."
"This paper describes the results of an experimental program to measure diffracted fields in the near zones of metallic and dielectric spheres and of metallic and dielectric cones. Amplitude and phase of the total electric fields are given over360\\degin the plane of symmetry of the models. The experimental results for spheres are compared with the exact theory developed by Mie. The experimental results for a metallic cone at \"nose-on\" incidence are compared with approximations based on Keller's Geometrical Theory of Diffraction."
"Previous unit-index geodesic lens antenna designs have not been able to produce a lens with good radiation characteristics in or near the plane of the lens rim. This paper extends previous work to permit the design of a geodesic lens for angles within approximately20\\degof the plane of the lens rim. This is accomplished by requiring that less than the full semicircular aperture be exactly focused, and also by dividing the outer annulus into two or more constant-slope sections. The capability of these lenses for beam elevation positioning is also discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A plane wave is incident upon a cylindrical surface comprised of two parabolic sections with different curvature at their junction, but otherwise smoothly joined such that the direction of their normals are continuous. The far-field contribution of the ray from the discontinuity is computed for the Neumann boundary condition on the interface."
"The radiation resistance of an oscillating electric dipole immersed in a moving medium is calculated by Brillouin's \"EMF method.\" Two cases are studied in detail: in case 1) the moving medium is simple, and in case 2) the moving medium is an ionized gas (plasma). It is found that in case 1), the motion of the medium tends to increase the radiation resistance, whereas in case 2), the motion of the medium tends to decrease the radiation resistance. A comparison is made between Frank's well-known theory of the radiation from an oscillating dipole moving through a material medium and the results obtained in this paper."
"Ionospheric propagation via the F1 layer is important for transmission distances in the 2000-3400 km range. Existing prediction systems yield large discrepancies between the predicted and observed F1 layer maximum usable frequencies (MUFs). An improved F1 layer prediction system has been developed which can be used for predicting the F1 layer MUF for latitudes greater than40\\degNorth. Contour maps of zero distance F1 layer MUF and distances factors, for use with any sunspot number, are included for the prediction of the F1 layer MUF for April, June, August, and October."
"The shrouding of an elementary cylinder antenna by a concentric perfectly conducting axially slotted shell is considered. The problem is reduced to a Fredholm integral equation of the first kind, which is solved for the case of a narrow shell slot. The solution indicates that the slotted shell inhibits the antenna radiation only for certain parameter combinations; for most others, the radiation remains the same, and for some it is enhanced."
"This paper describes an antenna technique which combines the dual-mode operation of a radiating square waveguide transmission line with the attachment of multiple ports to produce an antenna which can generate multiple, independent beams in space. The technique can be used to simultaneously transmit or receive signals through the beams with considerable isolation (>37 dB) between several of the ports. By this technique a single, traveling-wave-operated, linear array was designed to generate four unique beams in space. The beams consisted of two pairs of image beams which were produced by the use of an even coupling function design in the aperture. Measurements made of the array model atX-band showed good agreement with theory."
"This paper deals with the effect of small random variations in the atmosphere's refractive index upon electromagnetic waves propagated along a line-of-sight path. These fluctuations are considered to be due only to the turbulent character of the medium, and the effect of the earth and other bodies is taken to be negligible. Previous analyses of this problem have utilized the first Born or single-scattering approximation. This method, however, assumes that each part of the scattering region is illuminated by the incident wave, i.e., that any incident wave is scattered at most once. The applicability of this approximation in the microwave region is questionable since the mean free path for scattering at high frequencies decreases as the square of the frequency. If at microwave frequencies the transmission distance is large compared to the mean free path length multiple-scattering effects are of importance. It is these effects which are considered here. Multiple-scattering analysis is used to determine expressions for the mean value, mean-square value, and variance of the field at a single receiver. Also determined is the correlation function for zero time difference for the fields at two spaced receivers, as well as the mean value, mean square, and variance of the difference of the fields at two spaced receivers."
"Data on radar cross section per unit area\\sigma\\degof the sea at 6.3 Gc/s and 35.0 Gc/s and for grazing angles between1.5\\degand4.0\\degare reviewed. The data were obtained by simultaneously receiving both horizontally and vertically polarized echo components for transmitted polarizations which were sequentially changed between horizontal and vertical. Results indicate that sea echo is primarily caused by two scattering mechanisms: 1) a wind-dependent fine structure of the sea (presumably ripples) that partly depolarizes and has a scattering cross section which depends on wavelength in accordance with\\lambda^{-1}, and 2) a gross structure of the sea (presumably smooth facets between the ripples) that does not depolarize and has a scattering cross section which is independent of wavelength. The cross sections for transmitting and receiving vertical polarization (\\sigma\\deg VV) and for transmitting and receiving horizontal polarization (\\sigma\\deg HH) are caused by the sum of the contributions from the two mechanisms. Therefore, although dependent on sea state and polarization, it seems that\\sigma\\deg VVand\\sigma\\deg HHwill tend to be independent of wavelength at the lower frequency end of the microwave spectrum and will tend to depend on wavelength in accordance with\\lambda^{-1}at the higher end of the spectrum. A comparison of data at 6.3 Gc/s and 35.0 Gc/s and for grazing angles between1.5\\degand4.0\\degindicates that the wavelength dependences of\\sigma\\deg VVand\\sigma\\deg HHare functions of sea state but are greater than\\lambda\\degand are considerably less than\\lambda^{-1}."
"During October and November, 1963, and March, 1964, monthly median Maximum Usable Frequencies (MUF) and Lowest Usable Frequencies (LUF) were compared to observed median Maximum Observable Frequencies (MOF) and LUF's for three circuits-Hawaii (6443 km), Panama (3944 km), and Spain (7098 km)-transmitting to Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Observed median MOF's were determined simply by plotting the percent days of the month for which ionospheric support exists, and observed LUF's by the percent days of the month the prescribed sentence intelligibility was equaled or exceeded at discrete frequencies. The observed results were compared with three median MUF predictions methods: the two-control-point method, the \"equal hops\" method, and the method suggested by Gaspar'Yantz. The results of the comparisons show that there is not a great deal of difference in error for any of the three methods, although the equal hops method generally exhibits consistently higher errors than the other two. The Gaspar'Yantz method appears to be slightly superior to the two-control-point method, but the difference in rms error is small. The two-control-point method yields rms errors between monthly median observed MOF's and predicted MUF's of about 16-17 percent. The Frequency of Maximum Reliability (FMR) is discussed briefly, and the difference in reliability between the FMR and the observed \"classical\" Frequency of Optimum Traffic (FOT) illustrated."
"A theory is developed for the current distribution, impedance, and radiation characteristics of a two-element Yagi-type array, consisting of a driven antenna and a tuned parasite in a parallel-plate waveguide. By optimizing the spacing between elements and the tuning reactance of the parasite, front-to-back ratios as high as +31 dB (parasite as reflector) or as low as -19 dB (parasite as director) can be obtained for antennas witha=0.01\\lambdaandh=0.25\\lambda, whereaandhare the radius and height of the antenna, respectively. Extensive experimental measurements have been made on the antenna array, and a brief description of the apparatus is included. The experimental results agree well with theory. Possible applications of this type of antenna array as variable power-dividers and attenuators in strip lines and other circuits are explained."
"The beam shift and degradation of a paraboloidal reflector with an offset feed is analyzed by the scalar plane wave theory. Higher order coma terms are included with the feed at its optimum axial position. The beam characteristics for a tapered circularly symmetric illumination are presented. The range of validity of the approximate analysis is indicated."
"The most general exponential wave that satisfies Maxwell's equations in an infinite homogeneous isotropic medium is derived. Linear and elliptically polarized transverse electromagnetic (TEM) waves, transverse magnetic (TM) hybrid waves, and transverse electric (TE) hybrid waves are shown to be special cases of the general wave. This can be written as H = A [ BeiΞn + C (coshƛp + i sinh ƛm] .exp{i(ωt - θ) - i Γ e-iv/2[cosh ƛ m - isinh ƛ p](r - ro)} E = Azeiv/2[Cn - BeiΞ(cosh ƛ p + isinh ƛ m)] .exp{i(ωt - θ) - i Γ e-iv/2[cosh ƛ m - isinh ƛ p](r - ro)} wheren, p, andmare unit vectors which form a right-handed orthogonal coordinate system. Hereƛ(dia) is the ellipticity of the wave.\\Tanh ƛis the axial ratio of the ellipse traced by theHvector of the transverse electric component(C)and by theEvector of the transverse magnetic component(B), and by the ellipse defining attenuation and phase vectors as functions of the loss tangent of the medium. The three expressions in the square brackets are complex unit vectors which define three planes of interest: 1) the propagation plane, which contains the propagation and attenuation vectors, 2) theHplane, which contains theHvector, and 3) theEplane which contains theEvector. The vector product of the complex unit vector, defining theEellipse with that defining theHellipse, is equal to the complex unit vector, defining the Γ ellipse. [Cn - BeiΞ(cosh ƛ p + isinh ƛ m) × [BeiΞn + C (cosh ƛ p + isinh ƛ m)] = cosh ƛm - isinh ƛ p].From this, it is evident that in the most general exponential wave, both the electric and the magnetic vectors trace ellipses in planes that may make arbitrary angles with the plane of propagation. The geometrical relationships are treated in detail. The projections of theHellipse and theEellipse on the Γ plane differ only by a scale factor. They have the same axial ratio as the Γ ellipse, but the major and minor axes are interchanged. There is no right and left handedness to the hybrid waves as there is with elliptically-poiarized waves. The projection ofHandEon the plane of propagation traces ellipses in the same direction. This direction is opposite from that in which the attenuation and propagation vectors are displaced, as the conductivity of the medium is increased from zero. The right and left handedness of the general wave depends upon the phase relation between the hybrid waves of which it is composed. The decomposition of the general wave into a TE hybrid wave and a TM hybrid wave is unique, except in the degenerate case wherethe ellipticity of the wave is zero, and the attenuation vector, if any, is coincident with the phase vector. This is the case of the TEM wave. When the ellipticity is zero, each hybrid wave becomes a linearly-polarized wave, so that the expression of elliptically-polarized waves, as the sum of two linearly-poiarized waves of arbitrary magnitude or arbitrary phase, is a special case of the expression of the general wave as the sum of a TE hybrid wave and the TM hybrid wave."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A linear flat strip antenna lies between several dielectric layers in a direction parallel to the interfaces. Its impedance is formulated variationally as an infinite double integral. For thin half-wave antennas in a homogeneous medium the double integral is evaluated analytically and it gives standard impedance expressions. For antennas of finite width the integrals are evaluated numerically and for a homogeneous medium the impedance has been correlated with the theories of King and Middleton, and Wu, with the impedance computed from a complementary slot antenna and with available measurements. The impedance is also computed for antennas in a dielectric layer, and the decrease of the radiation efficiency observed with increasing electrical thickness of the layer is explained with the increased amounts of surface wave power and in part by local dielectric losses. For insulated antennas located in a dissipative medium the theory presented here yields results in better agreement with measurements than the conventional transmission line theory. The transmission line theory is shown to give too large a resistance and reactance at the full-wave resonant peaks of the impedance and too low a resistance for short antennas."
"The theory of microwave breakdown has been considered under special mathematical conditions which approximate those present on a space vehicle. In particular, models have been considered which assess the effects of gas flow past the antenna system and several different diffusion layers. It is found that gas flow can increase the breakdown field strength at lower altitudes, while having little or no effect at the higher ones. Also, an ambipolar diffusion layer can significantly lower the breakdown field strength at the higher altitudes. In fact, it is found that even a very thin ambipolar layer can exert a large effect upon breakdown. In addition, the problem of breakdown within a half-sphere has been studied. The results of this analysis should be useful in experimental programs. Finally, in the Appendix the general physical theory of breakdown is analyzed starting with the Boltzmann equation."
"The fundamental integral equations defining the current along the dipoles of an infinitely long Yagi-Uda array excited by a single delta function voltage source are reduced to a system of simultaneous algebraic equations by the use of the King-Sandler array theory. This system is solved by identifying it with a summation equation and applying a technique analogous to the use of Fourier transforms on integral equations. The resulting solution is made up of a term associated with a surface wave, and terms which decay with increasing distance from the source dipole. The wave term is found explicitly from this summation equation solution and the remaining terms are evaluated approximately by reverting back to the original matrix equation. Finally, a variational procedure is developed and yields an accurate stationary solution for the input impedance when the approximate dipole currents are used as trial functions."
"Antennas with identical radiation patterns can differ in the manner and extent to which they modify an incident wave, i.e., in the way they scatter. This paper enlarges on the work of Dicke [1] on this subject, employing, as he does, a scattering representation based on spherical modes. However, the approach is more physical and includes antennas with nonreciprocal components and withN(local) ports. A canonical minimum-scattering antenna is defined as one which becomes \"invisible\" when the accessible waveguide terminals are open-circuited. The scattering matrix of such an antenna is shown to be unique onceNarbitrary orthogonal radiation patterns have been specified. Neither an impedance nor an admittance matrix for such an antenna exists. It is demonstrated for a large class of antennas terminated by matched receivers that the scattered power is generally greater than the absorbed power, equality being attained for minimum-scattering antennas."
"In this paper, the electromagnetic theory of the electrical properties of the wire-grid lens HF antenna leading to a calculation of the radiation patterns is presented. The wire-grid lens HF antenna is an extremely broadband antenna based upon the wave-focusing principle of the Luneburg lens. In the calculations, the fields interior and exterior to the circularly symmetric lens antenna are expanded into modes which are orthogonal in the circumferential dimension. A differential equation describing the radial behavior of each mode is derived from the equivalent circuit parameters of the wire grids. The numerical solution of this differential equation and the calculation of the radiation patterns is discussed. The calculated radiation patterns are compared to measured radiation patterns for representative frequencies in the HF frequency band (3 to 30 Mc)."
"A new, reasonably accurate approximate solution is obtained in trigonometric form of the distribution of current and the admittance of a cylindrical antenna when driven off center. The symmetrical problem (sleeve dipole) with two equal generators at the same distances from the center is solved first, then the antisymmetrical case with equal and opposite generators. A suitable superposition of the two results provides the solution for the dipole antenna when driven at an arbitrary point along its length. The results are sufficiently simple to be useful in the study of antennas with active or passive elements located along their length."
"The application of multiloop arrays to high-frequency direction finding in the complex reradiation environments of shipboard sites is analyzed in detail. Theoretical results show that the bearing error and blurring are reduced and multivalued calibration curves are eliminated as the number of loops in the array is increased. The coaxial spaced loop is shown to produce a 2 to 1 reduction in bearing error with respect to the simple loop and eliminates multivalued calibration curves for thin reradiators. The use of combination arrays such asnand(n- 1)ornand(n- 3)loops are shown to produce unambiguous direction finding patterns. The DF performance characteristics of a coaxial spaced loop plus simple loop array are demonstrated for a shipboard site. Comparison of simple loop and three loop array calibration curves verify the performance characteristics predicted by the theory."
"The radiation characteristics of an infinite cylindrical antenna, insulated from the surrounding warm plasma by a concentric cylindrical sheath of free space, are investigated for the case in which it is excited by means of a delta-function voltage source. The uncoupled electromagnetic (EM) and plasma (P) space waves are excited. The radiation pattern and normalized radiation resistance of the antenna for the EM and the P modes are studied as a function of 1) the frequency, 2) the radius of the antenna and 3) the thickness of the insulation. The effect of the insulating ion sheath is found to be of some significance only in the case of the P mode."
"The general problem of calculating the radiation field of an antenna immersed in a moving dispersive medium is formulated as an algebraic equation in wave-vector frequency space for the potential 4-vector in the rest frame of the antenna, and is solved in terms of a Green's function having the form of a one-dimensional integral. The special case where the moving medium is a homogeneous ionized gas (plasma) and the antenna is an oscillating dipole is studied in detail. It is found that the far-zone field is not transverse and the Poynting vector is not purely radial."
"A slotted cylinder microwave antenna, surrounded by a thin plasma sheath that is located an arbitrary separation distance from the cylinder, is examined both theoretically and experimentally. Results are presented to demonstrate the effects of electron density, collision frequency, and separation distance on the antenna patterns. A grid of wires is used to simulate the thin plasma sheath in the experimental investigation. Experimental results obtained in this way verify the agreement between theory and experiment."
"This paper derives the far-field back-scatter radar cross section of a spherical shell segment for nose-on (propagation vector along axis of symmetry) and near nose-on aspects. The method used involves computing the specular contribution by geometrical optics, and adding to it the edge-diffracted term. This edge term is determined from the Sommerfeld half-plane solution. The result obtained is valid whenkb\\ll1(wherebis the edge radius), for segments smaller than a hemisphere. For nose-on incidence, it is shown that the edge contribution has the same value as the well-known specular contribution. An important consequence of this is strong interference between these two contributors. Comparison of this result with experiment shows that it is in good agreement. It is found to be much more accurate than the ordinary Physical Optics result."
"The problem of obtaining the excitation of an antenna array for maximum power gain is considered in terms of network parameters defined at the input terminals. The reciprocal problem of loading an antenna for maximum absorption area is also considered. The network parameters may be either calculated by solving appropriate boundary value problems, or measured on arrays already constructed. Some procedures for experimentally determining the excitation for maximum gain are presented. If the array elements are closely spaced, supergain antennas are obtained. Formulas for estimating the frequency sensitivity, orQ, of such supergain arrays are given, and the gain-bandwidth product is discussed."
"Experimental measurements of the electrical characteristics of umbrella top-loaded, electrically short antennas have been performed. Electrically short antennas can be represented by a series RLC circuit with good accuracy up to and including their first series resonant frequency. Electrically short antennas generally have very high Q's and, consequently, narrow bandwidths. Top-loading, such as umbrella top-loading of electrically short monopole antennas, leads to antennas which have lower Q's and larger bandwidths. The experimental measurements were made using a scale model facility. The antennas measured on the scale model facility were one-hundredth scale models of the anticipated full scale antennas. The equivalent inductance, capacitance, resistance, and effective height of these scale model antennas were determined and compared with values of static capacitance, static effective height, and static resistance obtained from a computer calculation [1], [2] and good correlation was obtained. Additionally, the dynamic characteristics of the antennas were determined from the model studies. The dynamic parameters determined were the antenna inductance, the dynamic radiation resistance, and the dynamic effective height. The measured data obtained from the model study are summarized in graphs and tables and compared with other reported experimental results as well as with computer calculations. Nomograms summarizing the computed data have been constructed and are presented."
"The application of affine transformations to antenna arrays is discussed in this paper. Arrays related by this transformation can define a pattern invariant group. Thus, pattern functions of many arrays of a general type can be written down immediately from that of a simple type which is affine-equlvalent: for example, the pattern of an elliptical array from that of a circular one, the pattern of a periodic array with parallelogram or parallelepiped cells from that of a conventional one with square or cubic cells. This method also leads to an optimum design for the cophasal periodic arrays in the sense that the number of elements is a minimum under the condition that there are no grating lobes in the visible region for any given scanning range. For example, in the case of full scan, the number of elements can be reduced by 13.4 percent and 29.3 percent from those of conventional two- and three-dimensional arrays, respectively."
"Measurements of amplitude and phase of the fields close to a number of driven periodic arrays of monopoles have been made to determine frequency dependence of the propagation constant for such structures. The results have been analyzed, where possible, in terms of a single traveling wave along the structure, and dispersion curves are given which include attenuation as well as phase shift. These curves clearly illustrate the possibility of obtaining leading phase shift along the periodic structure that will produce backfire radiation. Experimental radiation patterns corroborate the near-field results. A simple theory is given for the backfire phasing in terms of the space-harmonic content of a Fourier series expansion for the fields of periodic structures. This theory predicts beam scanning for the periodic structures which is readily observed in the experimental models. The measured data are approximately applicable to tapered versions of the periodic structures which have log-periodic geometry. Examples of periodic structures that have frequency independent log-periodic counterparts as well as some that do not are discussed."
"An analysis is made of circular antenna arrays with diameters being 2 to9\\lambda(the minimum inner circle diameter being0.4\\lambda) containing 3 to 18 concentric circles. For the purpose of computation of the array factor the elements of the array are assumed to be isotropic radiators. The elements of each circle have equal current amplitudes and are phased so that the contributions of all the elements add in phase in the direction of the main beam. The Chebyshev radiation pattern function is approximated by a truncated Fourier-Bessel series, from which the current amplitude of each circle is obtained. From these current amplitudes a method for computing the current amplitude to excite a new distribution of fewer circles is shown. Also, an empirical method is given for improving the sidelobe level of the radiation pattern by adding an element to the center of the array. A number of circles in the array sufficient to avoid pattern deterioration is found to be the integer nearest to5d/4\\lambdafor -20 and -30 dB sidelobe level and4d/3\\lambdafor -40 dB, wheredis the diameter of the array. This represents a large reduction in the number of circles needed over the Fourier-Bessel series representation in the case of large antennas. Experimental verification of the computed pattern is made for an array of two concentric circles with diameters of0.8\\lambdaand1.6at a frequency of 90 Mc/s. The elements of the array were vertical monopoles."
"The dispersion of nanosecond electromagnetic pulses in a longitudinally magnetized plasma confined in a coaxial transmission line is observed experimentally. The transient response exhibits weakly damped oscillations characteristic of the natural frequencies of a bounded gyrotropic plasma. Measurements of the pulse dispersion caused by reflection from the plasma interface and transmission through the plasma are compared with theoretical results obtained on the basis of a dielectric model of the plasma, in which ion motion and random motions of electrons are neglected."
"Energy relations derived for a lossless closed uniform and periodic structure show that the total complex Poynting vector integrated over the cross section is identically zero for the case of an arbitrary complex wave. These results are also applicable to open structures provided certain conditions are satisfied. The application of these results in the field of leaky wave antennas is discussed. Two illustrative examples, those of the sinusoidally modulated reactance surface and the sheath helix, are worked out. It is shown that although the slope of the dispersion curve can no longer be associated with the direction of net power flow, the knowledge of the slope may still be helpful in selecting certain modes for representing a given source."
"The propagation of electromagnetic waves over the earth's surface is considered under transient conditions. The source is taken to be a vertical electric dipole whose current moment is suddenly established. The build-up of the radiated field is calculated under various assumed corditions. It is shown, even in the absence of an ionospherically reflected wave, that the influence of earth curvature has a pronounced effect on the distortion of the original pulse shape. For great distances (i.e., d>2000 km), it is found to be more convenient to regard the field as a sum of modes. Particular attention is given to the transient characteristics of the dominant mode as a function of the source waveform."
"The type of the functions appearing in the expressions for electromagnetic fields in finite magnetoplasmas depends only on the properties of the medium manifested in separation constants. The\\omega-\\betaplane of the Brillouin diagram is partitioned into a definite number of zones characterized by the type of possible field solutions. The general behavior of the separation constants in the\\omega-\\betaplane including the complex region based on calculations covering a wide variation of the determining parameter is described. Effects of ion motions are discussed, and the generality of the presented approach is pointed out."
"This investigation is concerned with the scattering resonances, or generalized Wood's anomalies, that are exhibited on a fast-wave structure. In the past, all similar efforts have confined their attention to structures supporting a basic slow wave along the surface. In the frequency range\\frac{1}{2}<a/\\lambda<1, such structures exhibit only one anomaly as compared to two for the fast-wave type. The reason for this difference lies in the fact that in the above frequency range only then = - 1space harmonic radiates away from the slow-wave structure while both then = 0andn = - 1radiate from the other. In other words, the number of scattering resonances is exactly equal to the number of leaky waves supported by the structure under the same conditions of periodicity. The fast-wave structure analyzed here in detail consists of a parallel-plate waveguide perturbed by a series of periodic, parallel slits in the top plate. In the rangea/\\lambda<\\frac{1}{2}, the plane-wave scattering problem is considered for bothEandHmode polarizations, and the anomalies are found to manifest themselves as a rapid variation in the phase of the reflection coefficient. Whena/\\lambda<\\frac{1}{2}there are no higher-order diffracted waves, and the magnitude of the reflection coefficient is, therefore, fixed at unity. The relative periodicity is next extended to the range\\frac{1}{2}<a/\\lambda<1El, and the scattering problem considered forEmode polarization. The periodicity is now such that both the reflected wave and the first higher-order diffracted wave propagate transversely. Under such circumstances, it is convenient to use a scattering description for the fields, and the anomalies may then be observed as rapid variations in both the magnitude and phase of the scattering coefficients. The relation to the role played by the Rayleigh wavelength in the classical Wood's anomalies on optical reflection gratings is also considered."
"Exact formulas for the electric and magnetic fields at any arbitrary point within a cavity region completely enclosed by a conducting spherical shell of arbitrary size are derived under the assumption that the exciting electromagnetic field is a linearly polarized, monochromatic, plane wave falling on the external surface of the shell. It is shown that the polarization of the electromagnetic field at the center of the cavity is the same as the polarization of the incident wave. From a knowledge of this steady-state solution, the time history of the electromagnetic field at the center of the cavity is calculated for the case where the incident wave is a Gaussian pulse. Numerical information on the effectiveness of the aluminum and copper shields under steady-state and transient conditions is provided for several pulse durations, shield sizes, and wall thicknesses."
"Using the \"average field approximation,\" the theory of dielectrics, containing a random concentration of ellipsoidal inclusions of another dielectric material, is extended to include the case of lossy media."
"The theoretical design and experimental test of a simple, lightweight, and reliable circularly polarized omnidirectional antenna is reported. The gain for one sense of circular polarization, compared with isotropic, is more than -3 dB over 99 percent of the far-zone sphere. Good agreement between theory and experiment has been obtained. The antenna consists of a ring of crossed slots on a short-circuited cylindrical waveguide that is excited by twoTE_{11}modes in phase and space quadrature."
"An approximation technique is considered for computing transmission and reflection coefficients for plane waves propagating through stratified slabs. The approximation uses a mapping of the given problem onto a similar, but exactly solvable problem. The approximate solution is then expressed in terms of the solution of the exactly solvable problem. As an illustration of the technique, the reflection and transmission coefficients of a transition layer are computed. Agreement between the exact and approximate values of the coefficients is good."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Phased-array antennas utilizing fixed, planar apertures and designed to provide electronic-beam scanning throughout a hemisphere require a minimum of 3 apertures or faces. Each face covers one-third of the hemisphere and scans to an angle63\\degfrom broadside. This causes a ratio of broadside beamwidth to maximum-scan beamwidth of 0.45. Also, assuming no power reflected from the aperture broadside scan, a large amount of power would be reflected at maximum scan because of mutual coupling. These two effects cause a variation in realized gain of 4.1 db. By using 4, 5, or even 6 faces to scan the hemisphere, the antenna performance may be considerably improved. Each face of the 6-face array scans to an angle of only41\\degfrom broadside, and exhibits a beamwidth ratio of only 0.76. The power reflected from the aperture is greatly reduced, and the variation in realized gain is only 1.3 dB. The relative number of elements required by the various designs depends on the particular basis of comparison. Equalizing poorest performance by specifying equal realized gains at the respective maximum scan angles requires about 18 percent more elements for 3 faces than for 6 faces. Three of the four chosen bases for comparison yielded fewest elements for the 4-face array."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Thank you for your letter of September 20 inquiring about the delay in the delivery of your G-AP Newsletter. The Newsletter (July, 1965, Vol. 8, #1) was prepared in July. It was typed in final form by my secretary at Hughes and mailed for reproduction and distribution on July 28. It was received at IEEE Headquarters on July 29. You will note my letter of transmittal and the reply from Headquarters which are attached. My expectation was that this particular Newsletter would be in your hands before the end of August. I have forwarded your letter and the other pertinent correspondence to Dr. Emberson, Secretary to the Professional Groups with a cover letter. I will keep you informed of any further correspondence and also have taken the liberty of publishing your letter in the next Newsletter."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"At frequencies above approximately 4 Gc the microwave industry has utilized rectangular waveguide as the principle type of transmission line. Compact preamplifiers, the solid state technology, and increased stress on compact and lightweight design, however, are making coaxial transmission line more important. A new general purpose 7 mm connector should further help the coaxial technology. This paper stresses the ways this connector will help the microwave industry and outlines the development of the industry made possible by the connector."
"All sexless precision coaxial connectors existing today are comprised of two principal coaxial line sections. The sections are, an air line section adjacent to the coplanar, butt joing mating plane and a dielectric line section which supports and aligns the inner conductors. A review of lossless and low loss coaxial air-filled line theory shows that the best attainable impedance accuracy of air-filled coaxial lines is limited by our knowledge of the velocity of light and the relative permittivity of air. The physical properties of air-filled coaxial lines can have a significant affect on the impedance accuracy. Diametrical tolerances and eccentricity are most important and must be maintained within very narrow limits. Surface roughness, conductor ellipticity, and thermal expansion errors are shown to be negligible when good machining and laboratory practices are employed. The maximum useful frequency range of a precision coaxial line is determined by the TE11mode cutoff frequency at the upper end and the tolerable impedance error due to finite conductor conductivity at the lower end. The characteristic impedance considerations for air-filled coaxial lines are also applicable to the dielectric line section; however, in addition, the possible uncertainties in the effective relative permittivity of the bead support can be the cause of considerable impedance errors if material control and tight dielectric-conductor fits are not implemented. Connector bead supports are either solid or semi-solid (air-plastic composites). It is shown that air-plastic composites are readily calculable with good accuracy by using static capacitance relationships. These structures have comparatively small step discontinuities at the bead-air line interfaces. Solid support beads are more easily fabricated; but the step discontinuity capacitances at each interface are somewhat greater. Since in both cases the reflection due to the steps can be greatly reduced by carefully lowering the relative permittivity of the bead for a short distance adjacent to the steps, solid beads are usually preferable because of fabrication simplicity and superior strength."
"Significant advances in precision coaxial standards and components have come with the introduction of precision coaxial connectors and the development of highly accurate impedance-measuring techniques. These advances include dielectric supports with extremely small interface discontinuities, contacting members that are insensitive to mechanical tolerances, calculable air-line impedance standards of very high absolute accuracy, reference impedance terminations that retain their nominal dc values to very high frequencies, smooth diametral transitions that are essentially free of local disturbances, and a novel impedance-matching tuner. The theory, design and applications of the advances outlined are the subject of this paper."
"The performance of two satellite-borne antennas, an electric dipole and a loop antenna in detecting Whistlers and VLF emissions above the F2peak level of the ionosphere in the frequency range from 100 cps to 100 kc is evaluated. Both types of antennas are inefficient because of their necessarily small sizes. This study establishes a method of selection based upon signal-to-noise ratio. Theoretical relationships are determined, and the expected signal-to-noise ratio of each antenna is compared. The antennas are assumed to be immersed in the ionosphere at typical satellite altitudes. Because the frequency range of interest is wide, matching networks are impractical, and the antennas are assumed to be connected directly to the front end of the receiver. The capacitance of an electric dipole and the radiation resistances of both antennas are modified by the presence of a magneto-ionic medium, where the refractive index is given by the Appleton-Hartree relation. Loop inductance and antenna ohmic losses are not affected by the medium; they are determined solely by geometry. The signal and noise voltages at the input stages are calculated for both antennas; a comparison factor, defined as the electric-dipoleS/Nratio divided by the loop-antennaS/Nratio, is determined. Generally, the various resistances of the input circuit are not at the same temperature, and the noise voltage over the bandwidth is derived from Williams' noise equation. The overall comparison factor is then found by including the receiver noise factor as affected by the antenna impedances. A sample calculation is performed by assuming typical antenna dimensions and satellite altitude. It is generally found that the electric dipole performs better than the loop antenna over the frequency range of interest."
"This paper concerns the design and development of a new type of latching ferrite phase shifter for use in phased array antenna systems. The reported device differs from present multitoroid designs which require separate switching circuits for each toroidal element. In the new design, a single ferrite or garnet toroid is utilized to obtain differential phase shift innincrements wherenis any positive integer. This is made possible by utilizing both major and minor hysteresis characteristics of the material. The described device is simpler in structure, more versatile, more compact, and exhibits less insertion loss than present designs. Specific designs, along with measured data, are given for two four-bit360\\degC-Band (5.4 - 5.9 Gc) models. A measured insertion loss of less than 0.5 db is obtained for one 4.5 inch model. A suitable switching circuit is also proposed."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 5, Antennas; Microwaves; Electron Devices."
"Self-sustained oscillation has been obtained in an optically pumped rubidium maser operating at the Rb87hyperfine transition frequency of 6835 Mc/sec. The entire apparatus can be mounted within the volume of one cubic foot. The operating temperature is60\\degC, and the overall power consumption is only a few watts. The anticipated long-term stability is one part in10^{12}. Preliminary estimates also indicate that the device has far better short-term stability than any other existing frequency standard. The present paper explains the basic principles of the rubidium maser and examines the factors affecting the stability of oscillation."
"Experimental results on two 8-stage photomultipliers exhibiting flat baseband response to\\sim4Gc will be discussed. One photomultiplier employs crossed electric and magnetic fields, the other is purely electrostatic. At present both devices employ Cu-Be dynodes and an internally situated, opaque-backedS-1photocathode. Frequency response measurements have used heterodyning between the modes of the Zeeman-split doppler profiles of a 6328 A He-Ne laser and also shot noise in the current from a steadily illuminated photocathode as sources of microwave modulated current. Both photomultipliers have been used to observe sub-nanosecond pulses from phase-locked He-Ne and argon ion lasers. An estimate of the frequency response to be expected fromnidentical stages of secondary emission, when only the secondary electron emission velocities contribute to electron transit time differences, gives results in agreement with experiment, assuming that the most probable secondary electron emission energy from BeO is about 3 e.v. This value is consistent with the direct measurements of others."
"A brief historical account of the development of high-power semiconductor devices is followed by a description of the existing state of the art. We present a discussion of the interplay between the needs of the circuit engineer and the problems which beset the device designer in meeting these needs, and conclude with a brief look at some of the newer developments in the power semiconductor device field."
"The purpose of this paper is to present some interpretations of the dispersion characteristics of periodic structures, commonly referred to as thek-\\betadiagram, in terms of linear array theory, which is very familiar to the practicing antenna engineer. The location of the onset of the complex wave region on thek-\\betadiagram is shown to have considerable influence on theQof the structure and consequently on the efficiency of radiation. It is shown why the waves are trapped for\\beta > k, and why one should expect efficient radiation when the propagation constant of the wave becomes complex near\\beta = \\pm k. The step-by-step procedure for applying thek-\\betadiagram to some antenna problems is presented. Also the multi-mode case is discussed briefly."
"By an optimum design method, the sloping vee traveling wave antenna spectrum response ratio is extended over a range between four and six to one while preserving a high magnitude of directivity. A modification of an optimum design method for horizontal vee traveling wave and horizontal rhombic antennas is used for the sloping vee traveling wave and sloping rhombic antennas. A comparison between examples of the design procedure and gain response over a broad frequency spectrum and several elevation angles for both a horizontal vee and sloping vee antenna at the same average height is made. A forward gain contour plot with frequency and elevation angle of each antenna design demonstrates the increase in spectral performance possible with the sloping vee antenna."
"We consider a type of laser oscillation wherein the laser modes oscillate with approximately FM phases and nearly Bessel function amplitudes, and thereby comprise the sidebands of a frequency-modulated light signal. This type of FM oscillation is induced by an intracavity phase perturbation which is driven at a frequency which is approximately, but not exactly, that of the axial mode spacing. The resulting laser oscillation frequency may, in effect, be swept over the entire Doppler linewidth. A first order theory, some experimental results, and an interesting application are considered."
"The measurement and evaluation of the principal electrical and mechanical features of a 15-ft diameter precision millimeter-wave antenna are described. Contour measurements show that the surface accuracy of the paraboloid is not degraded by partial solar illumination and wind. The pattern functions of an off-axis feed Cassegrainian system are derived to determine the feasibility of achieving two nearly identical patterns desired for radiometric observations. The antenna characteristics have been measured by two methods: (1) the use of a transmitting facility located in the far field of the antenna and (2)drifting the antenna beam across the solar limbs. These measurements show that a high-resolution antenna can be significantly degraded by atmospheric turbulence."
"The paper describes a feed which was built for the 120-foot diameter Cassegrain antenna system of the Haystack radar. With this feed the system will operate over a band of frequencies from 7700 to 8400 Mcps, and it will produce a pencil beam of total half-power width of about 4 minutes of arc. The system will radiate a signal level as high as 100 kw average, and it will provide monopulse tracking with circular polarization."
"This paper demonstrates the analogy between two different fields, antenna arrays and passive networks, which are generally not known to each other. Successful application, either directly or with modification, of various known techniques for synthesizing a passive network when an impulse response is specified, to the synthesis of linear antenna arrays with amplitude excitations, phase distributions, and element spacings as the controlling parameters when a desired radiation pattern is given, is presented with many examples. Providing the antenna array theorists with information known to circuit theorists and vice-versa, this paper may be helpful to both groups."
"In the novel complementary pair element group (short: CPEG) a broadband impedance match is accomplished by feeding two antenna elements with complementary characteristics from one hybrid junction. This paper describes in detail two of the many possible realizations of this principle, the vertical dipole and folded dipole CPEG, and the endfire monopole CPEG, which is a near-optimum radiator for vertically polarized steerable arrays such as super-power HF transmitting arrays. However, the CPEG matching method allows not only the broadband operation of high-gain broadside reflector arrays, but is also extremely useful in a variety of other antennas. Examples are linearly and circularly polarized feeds for paraboloids and para-cylinders, endfire element groups in vertically polarized circular arrays, and stacked element groups in endfire arrays with non-uniform element spacing. Recommended applications include communications, high-quality broadcasting, air traffic control, radar, tracking, spectrum surveillance and radio astronomy. The CPEG concept is thus shown to be of universal impact on broadband antenna design, and in many cases to provide a more economical and more flexible solution than other existing broadband radiators."
"A technique is presented for obtaining a frequency-independent amplitude-difference pattern from two broadside arrays. Broadside arrays have a beamwidth that varies as a function of frequency. This frequency dependence causes an equivalent frequency dependence in the amplitude-difference pattern generated by the pair of antennas. To achieve the desired effect, the pointing of each array beam is made frequency dependent. This is accomplished by applying an arithmetically progressive frequency-independent phase shift to the array elements. An additional degree of freedom can be gained by also applying a frequency-dependent phase shift to each array. This permits the adjustment of the amplitude difference pattern to a particular slope. This technique was applied to anS-band antenna system consisting of two arrays of three cavity-backed planar spiral antennas. The corrected and uncorrected amplitude-difference patterns obtained from a computer calculation are presented. These results are then compared with measured data obtained from theS-band antenna system."
"Energy relations derived for a lossless, closed uniform and periodic structure show that the total complex Poynting vector integrated over the cross section is identically zero for the case of an arbitrary complex wave. These results are also applicable to open structures provided certain conditions are satisfied. The application of these results in the field of leaky wave antennas is discussed. Two illustrative examples, those of the sinusoidally modulated reactance surface and the sheath helix, are worked out. It is shown that although the slope of thek-\\betacurve can no longer be associated with the direction of net power flows the knowledge of the slope may still be helpful in selecting certain modes for representing a given source."
"Several recent advances in microwave coaxial connectors offer possibilities of major improvements in coaxial measurement accuracy and circuit performance. In this session three papers on new precision connectors and related components are presented followed by a panel discussion of these devices and their probable impact on measurements, component development, and system design. Also, the panel will present views on the order-of-magnitude improvements now possible in Type N, TNC, and other common connectors. The panel members are well-known, qualified experts currently involved in advancing coaxial techniques."
"The threshold current for GaAs Diode lasers has been reduced at the higher temperatures and has led to higher external quantum efficiencies at these temperatures. Using new materials, laser action has been extended further in the infrared and has reached the8-14-\\muatmospheric window. Diode lasers in which the laser action occurs in the bulk of the semiconductor are reported. Semiconductor lasers have been pumped with an electron beam."
"The design, fabrication, and evaluation of a compact, low-cost, power-amplifier module forL-Band (1300 megacycles) phased-array systems are described. The package contains six cascaded stages of gridded power tubes appropriately coupled to yield ten per cent bandwidth with a gain of 53 dB and a peak power output of 5 kW."
"The proper selection of protective finishes to meet the operational requirements of microwave transmission line is essential for maximum reliability of radar guidance and control systems. This paper discusses changes in insertion loss due to the corrosive effects of acidified hydrogen sulfide gas and salt spray on waveguide surfaces as tested at Sperry. This data indicates that insertion loss is effected by the type and amount of corrosion in the waveguide. The conclusion is drawn that the most efficient protective coating will support a stable microwave signal."
"A surface wave structure, consisting of a grounded dielectric slab placed between two parallel conducting plates and perpendicular to them is excited by a slot source. The fields are calculated from a careful approximation to the field integrals. This approximation, using the method of steepest descents, includes the correct treatment of the contributions from poles which lie near to the saddle point. The analysis is verified through comparison of the computed results with experimental data. The measurements are made using a highly accurate field probing technique in which the back-scattered signal from a dipole scatterer is measured at the input to the structure. The agreement between the computed and measured results is extremely good even as close to the source as a half wavelength."
"Microwave power transmission and helicopter technologies have been successfully combined to produce a hovering vehicle which is held aloft solely by power derived from a microwave beam. New, efficient, and lightweight antenna and rectifier technologies allow the helicopter to support its energy-capture system and a substantial payload in addition to its own weight. Projections for further development of the device in terms of technological improvements are made."
"Solid-state devices are presenting severe competition to electron tubes in many applications where only a few years ago tubes reigned supreme. So spectacular have been the inroads of solid-state devices that some engineers have wondered if eventually all tubes would be replaced, or at least if tubes in the future would play only minor rolls. A comparison of the basic characteristics of tubes and solid-state devices does not bear this out. It appears certain that inroads will continue, mainly in applications involving low power and low frequency. However, where high power is needed, tubes may be expected to maintain dominance. Thus tubes should be important in cooking, food processing, and industrial heating, in providing high RF power for phased array radars, in magnetohydrodynamic power generation, in thermionic energy conversion, in drilling and machining, and in ion propulsion for space travel. Certain tubes, such as the traveling-wave tube, are attractive because of inherently wide bandwidth. They should continue to compete wherever wide bandwidth is needed, such as in microwave power amplification for satellites. There is presently no strong reason to feel that tubes will not continue to be employed in radiation sensing and in display. Finally, tubes of special design have been useful and will continue to be useful in basic research as devices in which to stage experiments. Examples of this are particle accelerator, tubes for plasma diagnostics and a recently announced electron cyclotron maser."
"A simple analysis shows that the ultimate performance limits of a transistor are set by the productEv_{s}/2\\pi, whereEis the semiconductor's dielectric breakdown strength andv_{s}is its minority carrier saturated drift velocity. This product, having a value of about2 \\times 10^{11}volts/ second for silicon, emphasizes that a semiconductor material has a maximum capability for energizing the electric charges that process a signal. If the device operating frequency is high, the frequency time period is short and only a small amount of energy can be given to a charge carrier. Consequently, the power and power amplification must be relatively low. At low frequencies the inverse is true. That is, device physics demands an inverse relation between frequency and power parameters that is independent of the thermal dissipation arguments commonly given to explain the trade-off between these parameters. The analysis leads to an effective means for making comparisons between existing devices. This is illustrated."
"A number of significant new developments in silicon monolithic microcircuit fabrication technology have emerged during the past year. Of particular importance are improved thin-film over silicon components, methods for incorporating insulating and conducting layers within the semiconductor, localized epitaxial growth, ultra small geometry techniques, and stability improvements in planar devices. Advanced methods for economical packaging of complex microcircuitry, which eliminate the need for bonded wire connections to silicon chips, are also evolving. This paper describes these new developments and considers the extent to which microcircuit design will be affected. In particular, monolithic technology has been greatly extended, making it possible to fabricate circuits which had been considered to be beyond the limits of the technique."
"Since the inception of the image dissector, the first practical image tube in the early 1930's, camera tubes have undergone steady improvements in resolution, reliability, and sensitivity. The use of these tubes in such applications as television broadcasting, the space program, medical electronics, and the observation of astronomical phenomena has led to a broad and diverse family of imaging devices. The allied field discussed, the display storage tube, has been developed in the last1\\frac{1}{2}decades to combine information storage and directly viewed display. Display storage tubes are used extensively in radar indicators and other applications requiring high brightness, controllable persistence, and signal-to-noise improvement. Signal storage tubes are used for scan conversion, digital storage, signal processing, and many other related applications. Increased use has led to the development of high-performance tubes in very small packages."
"In airborne applications requiring large physical antenna apertures, the use of grating lobe techniques offers significant advantages in simplicity of mechanization, and small physical size. This paper describes the implementation details and experimental data obtained for two linear,Ku-band grating lobe array systems designed for use in a real-time, forward-looking, high-resolution radar, and which are aerodynamically compatible with high-performance aircraft. The antennas are 25 feet long and, with uniform illumination, provide a beamwidth of about 2 milliradians. Both arrays have a thinning factor greater than 90 percent. Grating lobe ambiguities are resolved by pattern product multiplication of separate dissimilar transmit and receive arrays. The alignment between the transmit and receive array patterns is maintained by means of a reference line and phase-locked loop which corrects the alignment on a pulse-to-pulse basis to a tolerance of about\\pm 0.2milliradians. Those interested in the mathematical details of phased grating-lobe product arrays may refer to a paper presented at the 8th International Convention on Military Electronics."
"A method of synthesizing linear antenna arrays from a complex far-field radiation pattern is proposed. A unique feature of this method is that it utilizes the far-field phase as a design parameter and considers the possibility of an equiphase far-field radiation pattern only as a special case. Two cases are examined. In the first case, a complex far-field radiation pattern is considered with its real and imaginary parts properly formulated and synthesized separately. In the second case, the far-field radiation pattern is reduced to one of constant phase, but it is expressed as the sum of two continuous, real functions; as in the first case, each of the two functions is separately synthesized. Both cases yield antenna arrays with side-lobe levels considerably lower than those of comparable arrays designed by using conventional techniques. Although broadside arrays are considered only, the method can be extended to other types of arrays as well."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The theoretical basis of antenna tolerance theory will be reviewed. Application will be made to actual large antenna structures. Methods will be discussed of determining the reflector surface tolerance and the error correlation interval by means of electrical measurements."
"Advances in techniques for optical simulation of microwave antennas have been made over the past year since the initial announcement of the technique by A. L. Ingalls at the 1964 PTGAP Symposium. In optical simulation, an optical aperture is illuminated by the spatially coherent modes of a gas laser to simulate the aperture distribution of a microwave antenna. The resulting optical diffraction pattern then simulates the pattern of the microwave antenna. New techniques are being developed at Wheeler Laboratories and include the recognition of the validity of the concept of simulation, where, for example, microwave apertures of the order of 100 wavelength size are simulated with optical apertures of the order of 10,000 wavelength size. Another new technique is the straightforward engineering development of automatic recording of optical diffraction fields. Precision of measurement has been obtained which is comparable to or better than that obtained at microwave frequencies. A third advance in technique is that of simulating the difference-mode of monopulse tracking antennas with the TEM-10 mode output of gas lasers."
"This paper describes a cumulative coupling problem encountered in large, uniformly spaced, flat, phased arrays. Large impedance mismatch and radiation pattern degradation can occur at certain critical scan angles for which the radar steering phase advances match the antenna coupling delays. Many antenna elements may then contribute in-phase, to the active impedance mismatch of an antenna element in the interior of a large array. Several phased arrays have exhibited scanning \"blind\" regions which appear to be a consequence of this phenomena. The mechanism is described here and equations are given relating the critical scan angle to antenna coupling coefficients."
"The application of ferrimagnetic materials for microwave and millimeter waveguide components is well known. This paper describes a technique which employs ferrites as a full aperture beam scanning antenna at millimeter wavelengths. The fundamental theory for the ferrite antenna is presented. Experimental results are given which verify the theory of the ferrite scanner."
"This paper describes circuit configurations for phased arrays which to some degree circumvent the difficulty of obtaining simple electronically-controlled phase shifters for UHF and Microwave frequencies. These configurations include phase shifters operating at an intermediate (i-f) frequency, frequency-scanning systems, within-pulse scanning, switched-multiple-beam antennas, switched-delay-line phase shifters, and digital-processing delay techniques."
"Metal shields (or fences) are used to reduce the ground clutter received by a radar. The design of a clutter shield for an L-band radar employing a 60-foot parabolic reflector with Cassegrain geometry is verified by scale-model measurements atK_{a}-band. It is shown that a 100-foot fence at a distance of 500 feet from the radar will give a nominal one-way clutter reduction of 20 db. More than 10 db additional clutter reduction was achieved by cutting rectangular slots in the top edge of the fence. However, these and other periodic structures are subject to \"resonances\" related to grating lobes, as was shown experimentally and theoretically by the principle of stationary phase. A proposed nonperiodic edge treatment is expected to be free of this troublesome effect."
"Antenna gain and radiation patterns, as well as radar cross sections of objects are measured in anechoic chambers. The chambers are used for convenience and to eliminate, as far as practical, sources of unwanted reflections. It would be useful if anechoic chambers could be categorized by a figure of merit which would predict their performance when antenna measurements are made. With this in mind, two methods of testing anechoic chambers, the traverse method and the pattern comparison technique, were applied to four different rooms. It is shown that the two methods do not give consistent results and it is concluded that no unique figure of merit can be assigned to an anechoic chamber."
"Four modified horn antennas with greatly reduced backlobes are described. The principal method of reducing backlobes consists of preventing the energy from illuminating the edges from which it is diffracted into the back regions. The mechanism for forcing energy away from these edges is the use of microwave absorber material, choke slots, and corrugated surfaces. An additional feature of these devices is an extremely smooth main beam with no discernible sidelobes."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists the participants of the keynote panel discussion for the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1965 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the recipients of the Solid-State Circuits Conference outstanding paper award for 1964."
"Presents the opening statements of the conference proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"When driven from a purely reactive source, conventional noise figure is undefined for a two-port network such as an audio amplifier. In order to assess the noise performance of small-signal amplifiers driven from reactive sources such as capacitor microphones, a signal-to-wideband-average-noise ratio is defined. It is shown that for transducers where output is related to internal reactance by a simple transformer relationship and where the Thevenin equivalent internal impedance is a pure seriesRandLorC, there exists an optimum value of internal reactance for maximum signal-to-noise ratio when used with a given noisy amplifier. The equations for optimum reactance and signal-to-average-noise ratio are general and include low-frequency dependence of the transistor noise generators, equalization or frequency dependence of amplifier gain, and source resistance as well as reactance. Solutions are given for the practical audio case with typical low-noise audio transistors for both inductive and capacitive transducers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Pitch perturbations are defined as normally minute variations in the lengths of adjacent pitch periods of voiced speech. It has been shown that perturbations increase in size and number in the presence of laryngeal abnormalities such as cancerous growths. Previous studies have been limited by the unavailability of electronic equipment of sufficient accuracy to perform the pitch measurements in real time. The apparatus to be described represents an intermediate step in the design of a real-time perturbation detector. Operating in an expanded time scale and using regenerated pulse trains derived from visual measurement of voiced waveforms, perturbation measurements are made which are comparable with the computer-calculated values."
"With conventional earphone listening, accurate simulation of the direction of sound arrival is impossible because the sound field is not fixed in space but rotates with the head. A system for overcoming this limitation has been developed. Signals are transmitted by electromagnetic or underwater radiation to two directional receptors attached to the listener's head. The receptors are connected to the earphones through a Ster-Bin network. This network divides each of the signals from the receptors into two parts. One part is fed into its corresponding earphone; the other is delayed with respect to the first by the time interval required for sound to travel normally between the two ears, and is fed into the opposite earphone. In addition, both parts are modified at high frequencies to simulate the diffraction effects attributable to the head. The varying relative signal strengths from the directional receptors, as a function of the direction of signal arrival, modified by the Ster-Bin network, provide the listener with orientation capability. Further apparatus improvement and applications to aerospace and underwater swimmers' communications devices are envisioned."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A new tape transport is described which incorporates unusual features of design. Among these are: a closed-loop drive with differential capstan resulting in significantly reduced flutter in the overall band from 0.5 to 5000 cycles, gentle tape handling, easy threading, and more efficient editing. Improved mechanical performance is employed with \"two-track\" technique to provide exceptional flutter and dynamic range."
"Recent experimental work at Telefunken-Decca in the correction of tracing error using harmonic generation is seen to find its justification in the well-known power-series expansions of that error. An exact expansion, in which the structure of the general term is evident, is newly derived in an apt form for mechanization. A process diagram is given."
"A new \"two-track\" technique extends the weighted dynamic range of audio tape systems to at least 76 dB below three percent Third Harmonic Distortion. Simplest techniques are employed during recording. The extended range is achieved by continuous automatic selection of the optimum track for minimum distortion or quietest background during playback."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"An investigation of possible communication systems for use in schools for hard-of-hearing children is described. The requirements are set forth and the relative merits of various systems are briefly discussed. A new concept, \"The Orthogonal-Fields System,\" is shown to have definite advantages in those cases where several adjoining rooms have to be addressed independently. In this system the magnetic field, which is the coupling medium between the teacher's microphone amplifier and the pupils' hearing aids, is confined to a limited space. Within this \"hearing space\" the field strength of the vertical component remains virtually constant, yet it decreases rapidly outside the space. An analytical design for the required loop configuration is given in the companion paper. Measurements on an actual system have shown that the horizontal discrimination is excellent and closely follows theoretical prediction. The loop configurations considered, however, have poor vertical discrimination due to an unfulfilled requirement for vertical asymmetry. Although it is feared that this requirement will be difficult to meet in practice, the system may still be the best available and can be quite useful, especially in new schools where the dimensions of the classroom can be chosen to overcome this limitation."
"The method of orthogonal fields, presented in the companion article, permits the design of a loop system with little spreading out of the resultant magnetic field. This article describes the mathematical basis of the design. Good approximation and ease of handling are obtained by the use of complex function theory and conformal mapping. Two solutions for the problem emerge, one based on the properties of hyperbolic functions, the other on those of elliptic functions. In the first solution, the field decays monotonically to zero outside the primary area of communication. In the second solution, the field exhibits equiripple character in the region where communication is to be prevented. The ultimate design was chosen from the second category, after elaborate computation with the help of an electronic computer."
"The Preisach model for magnetic particle interaction in recording tapes is used as a basis for the calculation of the frequency response of the ac biased magnetic recording process. These results are compared with experiment. Since there are numerous other factors present in normal tape recording which affect the frequency response, the tape was spaced away from the recording head; thus, the effect being studied dominates the frequency response. The results indicate that the theory is certainly qualitatively correct. The lack of complete quantitative agreement is attributed primarily to the perpendicular component of the recording field. The theory correctly predicts the change in frequency response with respect to bias current."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Output power of a Class B transistorized amplifier, driving a complex load impedance, as limited by maximum junction temperature, is discussed. Peak instantaneous power dissipation and the maximum average power dissipation are studied as functions of power factor and drive level. The peak instantaneous power dissipation is investigated, in conjunction with thermal limitations, to derive a design criterion for low-frequency power limit. To give complete consideration to Class B dissipation, a discussion of line voltage variations and quiescent current magnitude is included."
"An electronic delay modulator that operates by scanning a fixed multitap delay line has been devised, and an experimental model has been built and tested. The device is ultimately capable of delay-variation-times-signal-bandwidth products as high as 11, with minimal amplitude modulation and good modulation linearity. The frequency at which delay can be modulated is limited only by the speed of the scanning circuit and not by the reciprocal of the mean delay, as in conventional delay modulators which vary the propagation time of an entire line. The behavior of an experimental device of this type is described and applications are suggested."
"The importance of basic planning for sound amplification and reinforcement systems is discussed. The first step in basic planning is to determine the functions of the sound system by a study of the building and use requirements for the system. A list of objectives or \"functional requirements\" will serve as the basis for sound system planning and can be interpreted by signal flow diagrams. These can then serve as the basis for the more detailed functional diagrams or wiring diagrams of the sound system. After determining the functional requirements of the system, the designer proceeds with the acoustical and architectural planning. A basic decision is the choice of either a central or a distributed loudspeaker system. This is followed by a determination of the location and orientation of microphones and loudspeakers and the selection of the actual transducers required for the job. Finally, control and amplification equipment are selected. Basic planning is presented as a portion of the overall effort that includes the detailed electronic design of the system, a specification if one is required, careful installation, and final adjustments."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Dissipation of output devices in an ideal Class B amplifier can range from 10 to 400 percent of maximum available sine-wave output power. Dissipation is calculated as a function of output for a variety of signals and loads under steady-state and instantaneous conditions."
"This paper covers the design of magnetic tape wear simulators for high-resolution (wide-band) tape and general instrumentation type tape. Validation was performed by comparing tape wear on each simulator to tape wear on tape transports of each type (wide-band and general purpose). Tape wear on the simulators as well as on transports was judged by the degradation in the dropout characteristics. Recommendations were presented for specification tape wear requirements based upon simulator use."
"The characteristics of Bessel, Butterworth, and Chebyshev filters are briefly reviewed. The \"Rauch\" RC active low-pass filter configuration is described and design formulae are obtained. Tables of normalized capacitor values are provided for Bessel, Butterworth, and ±½ dB, ±1 dB, ±2 dB, and ±3 dB Chebyshev filters. Two examples indicate the use of the tables."
"A FET operated so that channel pinch-off is avoided behaves like a voltage controlled variable resistor. This paper considers a \"voltage divider\" attenuator using the device in this way. Attenuation (in decibels) varies almost linearly with control voltage over a range. Distortion may be less than 0.01 percent, temperature effects are usually negligible, and the network can operate satisfactorily up to a few megahertz. Circuits of this kind demand a FET having special characteristics."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Communication channel capacity is almost invariably at a premium between space vehicles and the earth. In the Apollo moon exploration program, plans call for the use of a special audio processing technique to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio. Extremely deep space probes such as the Mars Mariner IV now use very low bit rate transmissions because of signal-to-noise considerations: future manned planetary missions will benefit greatly from effective speech bandwidth compression techniques. This paper,calls attention to the interest in speech processing in future space exploration programs."
"Though \"typical\" patterns can be abstracted from speech sounds, the actual patterns vary widely. The human mind extracts many patterns, making its final selection on the basis of meaning. Until computers are capable of semantic analysis, voice-operated equipment must rely on \"constrained\" speech, which restricts itself to a simply abstracted pattern. A vowel meter has been built which abstracts such a pattern from vowel sounds. With this equipment and others of a similar nature, a training program will be undertaken to determine the effects of training upon speech precision, in the hope that such training will make possible a voice-operated brailler for communication with the deaf-blind. The underlying principles of the vowel meter are explained."
"Manned space flight uses one of the oldest communications media, speech, and a voice recorder is required to store it. CBS Laboratories developed the voice-time recorders for the NASA Gemini missions, and flights have proved their effectiveness. The small, light, reliable device records the mixed voices of the astronauts on one track and a digital time signal on the other. Cartridges with one hour capacity can be changed during orbiting, which permits taking as many cartridges as the mission duration requires. Tape is 0.110 inch wide, moves at 0.6 in/s and is contained in a unique coaxial-reel bidirectional cartridge. An ac synchronous motor, energized from a dc to ac converter, drives the mechanism at constant speed. Ground players/duplicators allow convenient transcription and time correlation of the cartridges."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A general theory of the coupling of electromagnetic modes in a nonlinear dielectric or magnetic medium is developed. The rate at which the mode amplitudes change, either in time or in space, is derived by a perturbation method similar to that previously used for stationary perturbations. The technique is illustrated by applying it to the problems of producing harmonic generation and parametric oscillation with a high-power laser, confocal resonator modes being used to describe mathematically both the focused laser beam and the output radiation. A comparison is made of resonant vs nonresonant structures for second harmonic generation, and threshold conditions are obtained for parametric oscillation. In addition, by combining the Manley-Rowe relations with the coupled mode equations, an alternative derivation of the symmetry properties of the nonlinear susceptibility tensor is given."
"A low-noise Ka-band traveling-wave maser (TWM) has been developed that tunes over a very wide frequency range (35.4 to 40 Gc), has net gains of 20 db, an instantaneous bandwidth of 75 Mc, and noise temperature near 20°K. The maser uses chromium-doped rutile (Cr3+:TiO2) as the active material. By employing push-pull pumping, a relatively low pump frequency (in the 4-mm band) is used. Dielectric slowing is obtained from a rutile-loaded waveguide structure which simultaneously generates the broad-band circular polarization for the ferrite isolators. The isolators used nickel and nickel of zinc ferrite and had reverse-to-forward loss ratios of 70 to 1 at liquid-helium temperature. The maser and associated components were packaged into an operational unit which is described. Design considerations and measured electrical characteristics are presented. The maser has been used to demonstrate a substantial sensitivity improvement in an 8-mm radiometer system."
"In this paper a new theoretical approach is presented for the analysis of the Čerenkov effect. The radiation is associated with the presence of leaky space-charge waves on a modulated electron beam. The new theory, which is rigorous within the customary linearized regime, takes into account the effect of finite beam thickness and the actual space-charge waves on the beam. Of greater significance is the fact that it permits a self-consistent type of description, i.e., it includes the influence of the radiation back on the beam. A linear perturbation calculation is also employed to obtain useful expressions in simple but accurate form. This leak wave approach not only rapidly reproduces the known results relating to Čerenkov radiation, but offers some new information as well. Among other results, it is found that there exists an optimum beam thickness and velocity, and that a discrete infinite set of leaky space-charge waves occur so that the radiation does not emerge ideally at a single angle, although the angular spread is found to be very small. Interesting differences arise between the fast and slow space-charge waves; the fast waves decay along the beam while the slow waves are growing waves. The transverse field dependences of these two wave types are also different. Numerical results are presented for certain typical parameter values."
"The integral equation for the field distributions of the resonant modes in a spherical-mirror Fabry-Perot resonator is solved in the limit of infinite Fresnel numbers. With this approximation the electric field is described in terms of Hermite-Gaussian functions and the resonance condition is obtained. The variations of nodal surface radii and characteristic mode dimensions are examined. A new definition of incremental mode volume leads to a minimum volume at a mirror spacing to mirror radius ratio of 1.5."
"A digital computer has been used to simulate the passage of white Gaussian noise through a narrow-band filter followed by a square-law envelope detector and low-pass postdetection filter (PDF). The amplitude distribution and false-alarm rate at the PDF output were computed at many different voltage levels for a wide range of values of the product of predetection bandwidth times postdetection time constants (Bτ0). Data were also obtained for the output of a linear envelope detector without postdetection filtering. The gamma probability distribution was found to be in excellent agreement with the PDF-output amplitude probability statistics for square-law detection. The relationship between the gamma distribution parameter and Bτ0was determined. The ratio of false-alarm rate to amplitude probability density was found to be closely approximated by the theoretical mathematical relationship for a Gaussian process for all except low values of Bτ0. Curves of amplitude probability density (Bτ0= 0 to ∞) and normalized false-alarm rate (Bτ0= 0 to 1000) vs threshold voltage level are provided for both single and double-section postdetection filtering. This paper thus makes available for engineering design and analysis numerical data which describe extensively the characteristics of detector and PDF noise outputs. The relationship between normalized false-alarm rate, threshold voltage, and Bτ0has, in particular, wide application in signal-detection problems. These data have neither been previously published nor are they easily derived from previous theoretical studies."
"A typical optical tracking system is described in which incoming radiation is amplitude modulated by a chopper disk in such a way that the photosensitive detector output is an FM signal with the frequency excursion and phase of the modulation dependent on the angular coordinates of the source in the eye field-of-view. The generation of error signals from the modulation caused by several sources, and the effects of system frequencies and bandwidths, are considered. For the particular case of two sources, error signal formulae are obtained in the form of series that converge rapidly for configurations of sources and eye axis for which the effective brightness ratio β is not close to one. Methods are set out for calculating error signals for the case of n collinear sources, and one of these methods is specialized to two sources to yield results valid for any value of β. The discrimination of the tracking system between two sources is shown to depend strongly on the form of the angular sensitivity function of the optical system."
"This article presents the following: Changes in US Standard Frequency and Time Broadcasts by National Bureau of Standards Radio Stations; Adjustment in Phase of Universal Time Signals; Adjustment in Phase of Time Signals Broadcast by National Bureau of Standards Radio Station WWVB; and WWV and WWVH Standard Frequency and Time transmissions."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Target resolution involves the recognition of a particular target in an arbitrary target environment. While pulse compression methods have solved the problem of separating two closely spaced targets of about the same cross section, this separation is usually accomplished at the expense of introducing \"sidelobes\" in the matched filter response, which may mask weak targets and prevent their detection altogether. The paper investigates the nature of the constraints on combined range and range rate resolution in a matched filter radar and establishes a clear tie between the uncertainty relation and the practical limitations on the resolution performance of radar. It is found that, in general, an optimum radar waveform for target resolution cannot exist. Radar signal design for target resolution consists of matching the waveform to the characteristics of the target environment, and a signal can be optimum only in that it achieves the best match. These findings are illustrated by examples of matching the radar waveform to a given target environment."
"The behavior of a light beam traveling in continuous or periodic lens-like media is considered. The light beam is assumed to be launched with a Hermite-Gaussian or Laguerre-Gaussian field distribution. Under suitable conditions and for most focusing media we find that the beam center follows a paraxial ray, and an independent equation determines the motion of the beam radius. The form of the field distribution does not change. In a continuous inhomogeneous focusing medium, the beam cross section varies periodically in distance with a period half of that of the oscillatory motion of the beam center. In periodic media, a particular solution is found for the case when the beam propagates with a nearly constant cross section. Discussions include an acoustic lens-guide and a lens-guide using heat diffusion in a gas."
"This paper discusses beyond-the-horizon propagation of laser beams by means of scattering from clouds and hazes as applied to communication systems. Expressions for the information capacity of such a communication link are derived from consideration of the scattering properties of such clouds and hazes and from other system parameters. A more detailed investigation of the properties and potentialities of such a communication system seems warranted."
"An ion drag pump of cylindrical design is analyzed and relationships developed between pressure, current, flow, voltage, and efficiency. Experiments are conducted on an actual pump and the conclusion reached that the theoretical model is moderately successful in accounting for that part of the effect due to ions generated by corona."
"The stimulated Raman effect of benzene has been observed using an ordinary (nongiant) ruby laser. The build-up of oscillation at the v2, 2v2, 3v2and 4v2Stokes lines and also at the first v1Stokes line have been observed. The threshold exciting power for laser action in the v2Stokes line has been measured to be 9.5 kW. A rate equation for the Raman laser has been given, and the total scattering cross section for the v2Raman line of benzene has been determined as σ = 0.46×10-28cm2. The estimation based on the results of this investigation indicates that it is possible to construct a Raman laser of benzene using an Ar gas laser."
"Electromagnetic fields tend to be in the lowest energy state consistent with the constraints of the system. This relaxation property of fields is discussed from the viewpoint of a variational principle. The study encompasses many closely related theorems, widely dispersed throughout the literature, whose origin is traced to a single variational principle derivable from Maxwell's equations. Kirchhoff's voltage law is also shown to follow from the variational principle. This leads to an interesting interpretation of a fundamental law in circuit theory, and also permits the derivation of the principle of conservation of flux."
"Recent articles have dealt with thermistor voltage-current Curves and the electrothermal interaction problem. Both of these topics have been investigated in conjunction with another specific thermistor application, the thermistor-bolometer infrared detector. The following bibliography is extracted from a study of infrared detectors in the hope of bridging electronic and optical literature concerning thermistors. Most of the following references deal specifically with thermistor-bolometer detectors, but have been selected for some contribution to the general problems of electrothermal interaction and thermistor characteristics."
"A resonant sample and hold circuit is analyzed which consists of a periodically operated switch, an inductor L and a capacitor C in series. Dissipative elements associated with these are represented by Rs, which also includes any source impedance, RL and Rc, respectively, and are taken into account. The switch is closed for an interval equal to one half the natural period of oscillation T2 of the circuit. This is assumed to be much smaller than the sampling interval TS. The impedance of the open switch is taken as infinite. The circuit has the following advantages. It produces a peak near one half the sampling frequency which can be controlled by changing the resistances Rs, RL, Rc singly or in any combination. This can be used in pulse amplitude or pulse code modulation systems to equalize the cutoff of the reconstruction low-pass filters. The circuit also exhibits maximum attenuation at the carrier frequency ws. The current through the switch is sinusoidal with a peak amplitude several times smaller than what it would be if no resonant inductor were used. The voltage across the capacitor during charging is sinusoidal of frequency ω22. This makes possible the reduction of the bandwidth requirements of the high input impedance amplifier through which, for example, the capacitor voltage is coupled to an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter."
"This article presents Notices of US Standard Frequency and Time Broadcasts by National Bureau of Standards Radio Stations; and WWV and WWVH Standard Frequency and Time Transmissions."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A class of codes and decoders is described for transmitting digital information by means of bandlimited signals in the presence of additive white Gaussiau noise. The system, called permutation modulation, has many desirable features. Each code word requires the same energy for transmission. The receiver, which is maximum likelihood, is algebraic in nature, relatively easy to instrument, and does not require local generation of the possible sent messages. The probability of incorrect decoding is the same for each sent message. Certain of the permutation modulation codes are more efficient (in a sense described precisely) than any other known digital modulation scheme. PCM, ppm, orthogonal and biorthogonal codes are included as special cases of permutation modulation."
"The design principles, construction details, and experimental results of a balanced transistor amplifier suitable for precise wide-band applications in the low microwave frequency range are described. Each amplifier stage consists of a pair of electrically similar transistors whose input and output signals are combined by 3-dB directional couplers. This eliminates the need for tuning adjustments. For a wide frequency range, the main advantages of the balanced design over more conventional multistage amplifiers are 1) improved input and output impedance matching, gain flatness, phase linearity, gain compression, and intermodulation characteristics, 2) possible designing of the amplifier simultaneously for minimum noise figure and good input match, 3) relatively little effect on overall amplifier gain and matching by changes in the distribution of transistor impedance characteristics, provided that transistors can be selected in similar pairs. The amplifier gain is easily controlled over a wide range by the dc bias with little degradation of the gain flatness and impedance matches. To obtain these advantages, a second transistor is required for each amplifier stage. A four-stage balanced amplifier was designed and constructed in printed circuit form for L-band operation, using Western Electric GF-40037 transistors in the common emitter configuration. The transistors were paired in a test circuit so that their input or output impedances were within about ten per cent. (With the current GF-40037 distribution, this takes less than five random tries on the average.) Without any tuning adjustments, the following characteristics were obtained over a 20 per cent (and 60 per cent) frequency band in the 0.8 to 1.6-Gc/s range: Gain = 20 dB ± 0.2 dB (±0.5 dB) Reverse Loss >50 dB (>40 dB) Phase < ±1° from linear (±6°) VSWR In < 1.10 (<1.2) VSWR Out < 1.10 (<1.2) Noise Figure≅6 dB Gain Compression ≤ 0.25 dB at 0-dBm output signal level Third-Order Intermodulation- With -3-dBm output power from two signals at frequencies fAand fB, power out at 2fA- fBand 2fB- fA≃ -50 dBm. The 3-dB bandwidth points are at 650 Mc and 1700 Mc, and the voltage standing-wave ratios (VSWR's) over this range are under 2. The transistors are operated at Ie= 2 to 4 mA and VCB= 5 to 6 volts, depending on the stage. The total dc power consumption for the four-stage amplifier is about 50 mA at 7.5 volts."
"Using a criterion of minimum mean square interference, the optimum, linear, generally unrealizable receiver for a noisy pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) system is specified for the case in which a finite number of identically shaped pulses with random, possibly correlated amplitudes are transmitted. The interference is composed of both noise and intersymbol interference. The optimum receiver, using the same criterion, is also obtained for the case in which the intersymbol interference is constrained to be zero. The average error probabilities associated with these receivers are compared with each other and with a matched filter receiver in one example. In addition, formulas for optimum transmitted pulse shapes are derived, and the joint optimization of transmitter and receiver is carried out in detail for the case of signaling through a noisy RC filter. Other formulas enable one to explore the dependence of the minimum mean square interference on the data rate, the noise spectrum, the impulse response of the transmission medium, and the autocorrelation of the message sequence."
"An approach in realizing circulators using three transistors is described. The authors propose two circuit configurations. In the one configuration, the transmission efficiency has some relations to the impedance level and the efficiency is theoretically less than unity under the matched termination condition, but the backward leakage can be null in the frequency range limited by the frequency characteristics of the transistors. Experimentally, the efficiency ηv=0.71, the forward/backward transmission ratio is 53 dB, and the frequency range extends from 100c/s to 3Mc/s with the input resistance of 200Ω (40 dB at the limit frequencies). In the other configuration, the efficiency is essentially unity independent of the impedance level. A circulator with ηv=1.0 and the maximum transmission ratio of 70 dB with 40 dB at 300 kc/s is obtained in experiment."
"Various methods for the determination of the ionospheric electron content are possible when satellite-borne signals can be used. The paper compares the results from Doppler shift, Faraday rotation, Doppler data combined with Faraday rotation data, and topside and bottomside soundings. The often neglected prerequisite for the application of Doppler and Faraday methods is radio propagation along the same ionospheric path for the different frequencies involved. Criteria for correct application are discussed. The comparison of inflection time moments is chosen for data selection. The usage of the Doppler slopes at the time of simultaneous inflection provides reliable data of the electron content. The diurnal variation is given. The Faraday rotation rate measurement has been made a continuous one by special equipment of G. Vogt. The simultaneous use of two Doppler slopes at different frequencies and of the Faraday rotation rate at one of these frequencies results in the measurement of the effective component of the geomagnetic field. Thus, a method free from any assumptions is on hand for the electron content. From the radio-frequency sounding of the topside-sounder satellites and from simultaneous bottomside soundings a complete ionospheric profile is obtained, the integration of which results in data for the total content. A comparison of the results of the different methods is permitted within the limitations brought about by the various theoretical and experimental assumptions made."
"A simple geometrical analysis has been developed which describes the lowest-order transverse mode of any large-Fresnel-number optical resonator located in the unstable or high-loss region of the resonator mode chart. Such resonators include, for example, resonators in which one or both of the mirrors are divergent spherical surfaces. The lowest mode in such a resonator is assumed to consist of two oppositely traveling divergent spherical waves which uniformly illuminate the end mirrors. The centers of curvature of these spherical waves do not, in general, coincide with the mirror centers of curvature, but are found by requiring that each center be the image of the other upon reflection from the appropriate mirror. The resonator losses are found from purely geometrical considerations, and are given by simple analytical expressions. These losses turn out to be independent of the mirror sizes, so that hyperbolic universal equiloss contours can be drawn on the resonator mode chart. The losses agree well with more exact results obtained by Fox and Li for a few specific cases. Experimental results in good agreement with the analysis have been obtained using a ruby laser rod having a divergent spherical surface ground directly onto one end of the laser rod. Unstable resonators, particularly the \"Cassegrainian\" unstable configuration used in the experiments, appear potentially useful for diffraction output coupling applications, and possibly also for transverse mode control, in ruby and other high-gain lasers."
"The transient response of a linear lumped-constant time-invariant network, which is excited by a driving force which has the ratio of two polynomials in the complex frequency p for its Laplace transform, can be tabulated easily using a simple linear difference equation. It is not necessary to know the location or multiplicity of the roots of the denominator, to expand in partial fractions, to use complex variables or contour integrals, or even to find the equation for the response. Any desired accuracy can be obtained easily. The new method uses simple algebra and real numbers only. It can be used to generate any mathematical function which has the ratio of two polynomials in p for its Laplace transform."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper compares the spot signal-to-noise ratio of a semiconductor microwave p-n junction photodiode operated as, 1) a simple reverse-biased photodiode, and 2) a photodiode with integral parametric amplification. The gain and noise properties of the photoparametric diode are expressed in terms of the gain and noise of a hypothetical amplifier coupled to the simple (nonparametric) photodiode. For the simple photodiode, the signal-to-noise ratio is an increasing function of the Q of the diode at the signal frequency. For a suitably designed high-Q photodiode, operation as a nondegenerate photoparametric diode, with properly chosen idler and pump frequencies, can yield noise figures for the equivalent hypothetical amplifier as low as a few tenths of a decibel. One advantage of operation as a photoparametric amplifier is that a circulator is not needed. Another is that it is not necessary to pump the diode hard to get gain. There are also certain advantages in broadbanding."
"Microwave pulse-echo experiments have been performed using YIG samples, and data are presented illustrating a variety of elastic, magnetoelasfic, and spin wave propagation phenomena. Both disks and rods of YIG were used, with excitation at X-band frequencies. The spin wave mode of propagation shows very strongly dispersive behavior when the spin wavelength is comparable to one of the sample dimensions. The group velocity is obtained from the magnetostatic mode spectrum of the appropriate configuration and is combined with the spatial variation of the internal magnetic field to compute the delay time. Exchange effects are important in the case of the disk and are included in the analysis. The agreement between theoretical and experimental delay times is quite satisfactory for all configuration."
"The theory of operation, construction, and electrical characteristics of a new family of silicon thyristors for use as bidirectional (ac) switches are discussed. With these p-n-p-n devices, load current flow in either direction can be controlled by the application of a low voltage, low current pulse between a gate trigger terminal and one of the load current terminals. Blocking current and voltage characteristics are similar to those of a silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR); but unlike SCR's they can switch load current of either polarity. Devices have been made which, in the blocking state, will support several hundred volts with very little current flow; yet, when in the conducting state, will carry many amperes with a voltage drop of approximately a volt. Static power switching with these devices in such applications as lamp dimming, temperature controls, small motor speed controls, etc., appears to be particularly important. For triggering, these new devices depend on the manipulation of lateral current paths. The potential differences created by the flow of current in these paths determine, in turn, the lateral distribution of injected charge carriers within the device during the triggering interval. This paper presents an analysis of lateral biasing effects and the parameters which control them."
"Applications of the techniques of scanning electron microscopy to solid-state devices are reviewed from the device point of view. An explanation is given of the Scanning Electron Microscope and of the phenomena in this instrument currently judged to be of greatest pertinence to devices. The simultaneous observation of physical topography and voltage contrast is explained, and Scanning electron micrographs of actual device structures are presented. Application of this instrument to the polymerization of photoresist films is also discussed, and it is shown that a factor of five to ten improvement in the control of edge sharpness is obtained over images produced by conventional optical techniques. The implications of these techniques to the fabrication of microdevices are discussed in the terms of a relatively simple field-effect device structure."
"A comprehensive study has been made of a duo-dielectric capacitor in which one of the dielectrics is photoconducting and the other inert. Under dark conditions, device capacitance per unit area is set by the respective dielectric coefficients, conductivities, and thicknesses. Illumination causes device capacitance to change, and decreases the interfacial polarization relaxation time. Analysis reveals the means to optimize device performance, and the existence of a light-dark capacitance ratio-cutoff frequency limitation. A fabricated unit, utilizing CdS with BaTiO3, exhibited a capacitance change of 2500 times and a frequency span extending to 0.22 Mc/s. A CdS:silicone plastic unit showed a maximum capacitance change of 20 times and a frequency span of ∼10 Mc/s, but had degraded dark performance attributed to electron traps, and an interesting piezo-electric resonance that affected both capacitance and dissipation factor at 0.315 Mc/s. Applications of this type of a light-sensitive capacitor are limited to specialized situations where a maximizing dissipation factor and a varying frequency bandwidth can be tolerated."
"The authors have found that formation of \"solder balls\" may not be due to any foreign matter in the package but instead be a characteristic of this type of device when: a) Local hot spots develop as the result; b) temperatures rise in excess of 23O°C,; c) during life testing or \"burn-in.\" The devices which were extensively studied in this investigation were highpower silicon alloy-diffused transistors and high-reliability medium-power silicon alloy transistors. The five conclusions reached from this work are the following. 1) Balls are formed as a result of temperature in excess of 230°C (melting point of tin). 2) These temperatures are reached either by electrically induced hot spots or by external heating of the device. 3) Analysis of the balls has shown it to be 99% tin, which is the main ingredient of the emitter and base regions. 4) Electrical parameters initially are not degraded by formation of balls. 5) The balls are physically attached to the device until mechanically jolted loose. The ball problem has been found in this type of silicon alloy transistor and could be a principal mode of failure in this device. Balls have not been found in other types of silicon transistors, such as planar or mesa transistors."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"One purpose of this article is to develop the theory of black body radiation, thermal noise, and quantum noise from a few basic physical principles. A second purpose is to show how these results apply to certain areas such as antenna theory and ideal receivers. It is hoped that having this related material collected and presented in the language of the electronics engineer will be of tutorial value."
"We have constructed an optical amplitude modulator having a bandwidth of approximately one Gc/s and requiring about a fifty volts drive to produce a 100 per cent amplitude modulation. The wide-bandwidth low drive power performance is obtained by using the traveling-wave approach previously used in the gigacycle bandwidth phase modulator. The electro-optic material is KDP cut in the same orientation used in the phase modulator and combined with other optical elements to produce retardation-amplitude modulation. Temperature variations through the KDP produce a deflection and decollimation of the output beam. Experiments have been conducted to determine the magnitude of these effects. Corrective measures have been devised. Comparatively good agreement between the computed and the measured bandwidth has been obtained."
"The stabilization of continuum mechanical and electro-mechanical systems by means of coupling to active distributed structures is an application of continuum feedback control that has promise. The stabilization of classic forms of Rayleigh-Taylor type instability with a continuum of feedback is presented. The effect of spacewise sampling on the dynamics is discussed in detail for a typical case where the instability occurs, because a thin, conducting, liquid or elastic film is stressed by a sufficiently large constant electric field. The stabilizing influence of feedback provided by an external electrostatic structure is presented as it depends on 1) the effect of longitudinal constraints on the film (fixed ends), 2) the degree of coupling between the film and the feedback structure (proximity), and 3) the effect of spacewise sampling to obtain the feedback signals. The stability conditions are found by a \"spliced\" solution that accounts for 1) and 3), a normal-mode solution that describes 1), 2), and 3) and a traveling-wave solution that includes the effects of 2) and 3). It is shown that the sampling interval places an upper bound on both the electric pressure and feedback gain consistent with stability. This bound is given, as it depends on the proximity of the feedback structure and the longitudinal boundaries."
"The problem considered is that of a laser oscillator with an externally applied signal. Calculations are made 1) to determine the conditions for quenching the natural oscillation, 2) to evaluate the frequency pulling and pushing effects, and 3) to determine the power gain at the forcing frequency."
"Electron beams with a continuous current density of 800 A/cm2were extracted from a synthesized-plasma hollow cathode. The beams were accelerated up to potentials of 1.2 kV, through the potential of maximum ionization probability at about 16 volts. There was no accompanying oscillation or gas breakdown. This high voltage operation was made possible by collimating the cesium vapor entering the hollow cathode. The collimation, which was accomplished by use of a narrow slit at the \"top\" of the cathode, caused the vapor to flow along the cathode wall surface and away from the exit aperture. This minimized escape of neutrals into the high voltage region. The cathode was tested for 200 hours without any signs of degradation. The cathode lifetime is predicted to be several thousand hours at the highest cathode temperature (2425°K) employed in these studies. The extracted 0.030-in diameter beam of 0.250-in length had an electron temperature of less than twice cathode temperature. Longer beams, such as would be used in actual microwave tubes, would require magnetic confinement."
"In the above named work the fourteenth and fifteenth lines of the third column should read as follows: \"Then acts as the source of a spherical sound wave in the lattice. As in Hartley[2]this wave ...\""
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A major consideration in communications is the transmission of modulated waveforms through linear systems. The engineer usually wants the modulation to be preserved, for it is the modulation that carries the transmitted information. This paper presents a straightforward method for relating distortion of the modulation to readily computed characteristics of the linear system and the input signal. Through a simple integration by parts, the response is broken up into 1) a quasi-stationary term that preserves the characteristics of the modulation, and 2) a correction term that represents the distortion. Examples of the application of the results to both AM and FM signals through linear time-invariant systems and FM waves through first order time-variant systems are presented. A fairly extensive bibiliography of the basic problem is also presented."
"This paper presents a new approach to the problem of mounting moderate Q thickness mode piezoelectric resonators based on the impedance transforming properties of quarter-wavelength transmission lines. The resulting sandwich structure has been demonstrated in the range 2-7 Mc/s, and a computer analysis of the tolerance sensitivities of the center frequency and Q has been conducted. This type of resonator appears particularly promising as a tuner for high frequency integrated circuits. The problems which must yet be solved in order to implement these tuners in thin film form are described."
"The perpendicular diffraction delay line was introduced recently as a new method for obtaining a linear variation of delay time with frequency. Basically, it consists of a transmitting array and a receiving array having elements with suitable nonuniform spacings, arranged perpendicular to each other. The dispersion arises because the effective path length of an ultrasonic beam between the input and output arrays changes with frequency. This paper presents a quantiative analysis of the perpendicular diffraction delay line together with experimental results obtained from a 2.2 Mc/s model. Also included is a complete design procedure based on interference theory. The theoretical analysis indicates that the device is capable of performing satisfactorily in any frequency range with fractional bandwidths up to 50 per cent. Measurements made on the experimental model are in good agreement with the theory."
"It is shown, with the aid of several examples, that as microelectronic circuits with a power consumption of a few microwatts have been engineered for practical systems applications, it becomes technologically feasible to build silicon transistors with substantial power gain at a supply power of one nanowatt or lower. The investigation covers the limitations with respect to gain, speed, size, and noise which one encounters as the supply power for circuits is reduced below the microwatt level, and also the experimental results that have already been achieved in the laboratory. The design characteristics of nanowatt transistors, plus guidelines for their practical fabrication, are derived. Figures of merit for minimum-power devices and circuits are defined. The performance of experimental transistors and of analog and logic circuits operating at 20 nanowatts and lower is described. The four-pole parameters and the maximum achievable power gain of a transistor operating in the nanoampere range are derived, and the necessary source and load resistors are shown to rise into the 100-megohm range and higher, so that they may become a limitation to further power reduction before the transistor itself loses its capacity for power gain. The speed of small-signal and large-signal nanowatt circuits is investigated and found to be limited only by RC time constants. With the required high resistors, the device capacitances and, more important, the circuit stray capacitances must be reduced by several orders of magnitude, with 10-15farads as a technological goal. This means not only that the conducting cross section of all devices and interconnections must be reduced approximately proportional to the bias currents but that the length of resistors and intercounections and thus the distance between adjacent circuits must be reduced by approximately the same ratio. It is shown that circuit geometries will have to undergo major changes, that nanowatt microelectronic circuits most likely will not be based on silicon as the host crystal, and that entire systems rather than individual devices and circuits will have to be fabricated in the same crystal or on the same substrate. Assuming certain size restrictions derived earlier by Wallmark and Marcus [45], it appears at present that nanowatt circuits will be restricted to operating frequencies below one megacycle. Transistors with a collector area of 3 by 3 microns, and resistors with a linewidth of less than one micron, a length of less than 100 microns, and sheet resistances as high as 100 megohms per square are established as technological goals. These goals do not violate any laws of device physics, but the technology necessary to achieve them is not known at present in all cases. Electron and ion beams are noted as potentially important tools in the advanced technology necessary to reach such extremely small size in integrated structures. Noise is shown not to be a basic limitation. Billion-element systems with a power consumption of a few watts are found to be technologically--though not yet economically-feasible, and the conclusion is drawn that solid-state technology will allow the building of electronic systems that simulate the function of major biological nerve systems in the same volume and with the same power consumption as their living counterparts."
"Design and processing considerations pertinent to integrating an audio-frequency, low-noise preamplifier are discussed. Performance characteristics of an integrated circuit \"mock-up,\" an experimental model integrated circuit, and the final design integrated circuit are compared with one another and with the theoretically predicted performance. The wide range of design flexibility and tight performance parameter control attained through use of compatible thin-film/monolithic processing technologies is demonstrated. It is further demonstrated that an overall design approach which considers both the electronic functions to be performed and limitations and advantages of the processing technologies involved can result in integrated circuit performance characteristics which are superior to those of the \"discrete component\" counterpart."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The universality of the state-variable approach to network analysis is demonstrated in general discussions and specific examples. The method of formulation of the state equations for an arbitrary lumped, linear, finite, reciprocal, passive, time-invariant network is presented fully, while the relaxation of these restrictions is indicated in detail; i.e., the state-variable characterization of active, nonreciprocal, time-variable, and nonlinear networks is discussed. Finally, there is a brief guide of the current research where the state-variable analysis is brought to bear upon certain qualitative aspects of classical and nonclassical network behavior."
"The noise output and noise factor F of a simplified model of a maser is studied as a function of the ratio g/G of small-signal gain g to actual gain G. The noise output drops rather sharply as g/G is increased. The noise factor, however, increases only very slowly from its value of F = 1 at g/G = 1 to F = 1 + ½ ln g for a totally overloaded maser (G = 1)."
"A class of nonlinear resistive harmonic generators is considered in this paper. These generators are ideal in the sense that they generate only the desired harmonic into a resistance load and that they have power gain. Experimental results for tunnel diode approximations to the ideal curves are given for harmonics up to five."
"The random fluctuations of a signal constitute noise. Their magnitude which depends on the signal statistics may be significant in laser radiation. In this paper the statistics of thermal or incoherent radiation are briefly compared with those from an amplitude stabilized laser and the amplitude probability density of the uncoupled multimodal laser field is derived."
"An analysis is first presented of the manner in which oscillator short-term instabilities limit performance in a number of applications. This analysis provides guidelines for theoretical formulations, the definition of \"short-term stability\" and the development of measurement techniques for characterizing short-term instabilities. The factors that affect short-term stability are then discussed, and basic models for theoretical analysis are formulated. The models are used in investigations of the characteristics of outputs of \"stable\" sources. Measurement techniques are proposed and compared with techniques employed by other investigators."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This survey of the literature prior to World War II shows that the study of the scattering of plane waves by a sphere has a history in which the list of contributors includes some of the greatest names in mathematical physics from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. When viewed in retrospect, this literature appears to be characterized by the appearance of papers by writers who apparently failed to appreciate the significance of the contributions made by their contemporaries and predecessors. Emphasis is placed upon the relatively unknown contributions of Clebsch, Lorenz, Nicholson, Bromwich, Proudman, Doodson, Kennedy, and White. The uncovering of the \"lost\" contributions of these writers serves to enrich the historical perspective against which one should view the voluminous literature which has accrued since World War II."
"In estimating future trends in radar scattering research and development, the authors take the view that the dynamics of progress and change will be governed largely by user demands. Emerging developments in radar for space applications, reflectivity from plasma and other permeable bodies, object resolution and recognition, and synthesis of radar cross-section characteristics will in the main stimulate and constrain the direction of future scattering research. The authors speculate on the likely contributions to be expected from known theoretical and experimental approaches to scattering problems. The relative merits of quasi-optical approximation, boundary value solutions, and integral equation formulations suitable for high-speed digital computers are examined. The scientific frontier includes the response of targets to partially coherent electromagnetic waves and the resolution and identification of distributed and statistically representable objects by tomorrow's data processing radar sensors. Available techniques needed to control or modify the diffraction and scatter of targets are discussed in terms of future requirements assuming that objects with resonant dimensions and composed of complex materials will be of growing importance. Promising experimental methods are evaluated which will be of aid in attacking such difficult problems as plasma reflectivity, bistatic characteristics of extended targets, and near zone scattering. It is anticipated that the electromagnetic scattering properties of matter in shaped and distributed form will provide the essential information needed for space exploration and many vital military operations."
"A survey of recently developed techniques for solving the rigorous equations that arise in scattering problems is presented. These methods generate a system of linear equations for the unknown current density by enforcing the boundary conditions at discrete points in the scattering body or on its surface. This approach shows promise of leading to a systematic solution for a dielectric or conducting body of arbitrary size and shape. The relative merits of the linear-equation solution and the variational solutions are discussed and numerical results, obtained by these two methods, are presented for straight wires of finite length. The computation effort required with the linear-equation solution can be reduced by expanding the current distribution in a series of modes of the proper type, by making a change of variables for integration, and by employing interpolation formulas. Solutions are readily obtained for a scattering body placed in an incident plane-wave field or in the near-zone of a source. Examples are included for both cases, using a straight wire of finite length as the scattering body. The application of these techniques to scattering by a dielectric body is illustrated with dielectric rods of finite length."
"A new method is proposed for the computation of the radar cross section and other associated field quantities arising when a smooth, perfectly conducting obstacle is illuminated by an incident electromagnetic wave. The scattered wave is first represented by a distribution of electric dipoles over the surface in question, with the response from any dipole proportional to the induced surface current density at that point. The surface current is then determined by the \"boundary condition\" that the scattered wave, through interference, precisely cancels the incident wave inside the obstacle. One obtains in this mariner a pair of coupled (infinite) matrix equations for the surface current. Green's identity permits decoupling of the equations, reducing the problem to roughly the equivalent of two independent scalar problems. The equations have been specialized to axially symmetric obstacles and then solved numerically on the IBM 7094 for several examples of interest. Reciprocity and energy conservation are also examined and the resonant mode (interior) problem set up explicitly in matrix form."
"This paper presents an integral equation method for the solution of the field scattered by a set of cylinders with arbitrary cross-sectional shape, and arbitrarily varying anisotropic surface impedance. The integral equations are given for an arbitrary source with arbitrary harmonic variation along the cylinder axis. The scattering problem can be solved for arbitrary three-dimensional sources by expansion of the source in a Fourier integral over the axial propagation constant. The integral equations have been programmed for a CDC 1604A computer. The program developed has been used to solve a great variety of scattering, antenna, and propagation problems, and, depending upon accuracy desired, will handle cylinders up to about 150-wavelengths total perimeter. Numerical results on scattering from cylinders with specific cross sections are presented to illustrate the utility of the program developed."
"The integral equation of the current distribution along a circular loop antenna is solved by numerical methods. The integral equation is converted into a set of linear simultaneous equations, whose solution gives the desired current distribution. First, the loop antenna driven by a voltage source is considered and solutions to loops of various sizes are obtained. Secondly, current distributions are obtained for the loop as a scatterer illuminated by a plane wave. Finally, from the knowledge of the current on the illuminated loops, backscattering patterns are obtained for loops as a function of the rotation angle. The results of measurements for the latter case are also presented and compared with the calculations."
"To serve as a general introduction to the theoretical papers immediately following, the analytical techniques available for estimating the backscattering cross section of a metal target are reviewed. These are classified according to the dimension-to-wavelength ranges for which they are appropriate, and an attempt is made to interpret them in the light of the scattering processes involved. Some examples are discussed."
"Radar cross section (RCS) methods for simple shapes are reviewed with special attention being devoted to results rather than to derivations of the formulas involved. In addition, special emphasis is placed on an approach which can be extended to \"complex\" shapes. Where possible, comparisons between theory and experiment are provided to give a measure of the accuracy obtainable via the use of these techniques. The discussion is limited to perfectly conducting bodies: in particular, ellipsoids, finite cones, ogives, cylinders, thin wires, wire loops, and flat plates. An attempt is made to cover the complete spectrum of body dimension to wavelength ratios; that is, the Rayleigh region, the resonance region, and the optics region are all considered from the points of view of both monostatic and bistatic phenomena. Since one motivation for these considerations is to describe the radar reflectivity characteristics of complex geometries, this paper is closely connected with the subject matter of another paper."
"A definition of the Rayleigh region is presented in terms of the radius of convergence of the Rayleigh or low-frequency expansion which is both mathematically precise and consistent with current usage in radar scattering work. General methods for obtaining successive terms in low-frequency expansions are outlined and those special shapes for which calculations have actually been carried out are enumerated."
"This paper very briefly reviews certain approaches commonly used to predict scattering in the region between those amenable to either high or low frequency approximations. As an alternative to extensions of such approximations into this so-called \"resonance region,\" the suggestion is made that the concept of modal expansions of fields be investigated. The existence of such characteristic modes is reasoned heuristically and certain speculations are presented concerning their properties and their determination."
"A review is given of a wide variety of asymptotic methods used in high-frequency scattering. Following brief descriptions of the saddle point method, Watson transformation, and residue series, a survey of the literature is made in which these methods have been employed. The desirability of using high-frequency approximate methods is pointed out. A critical discussion of geometrical optics, physical optics, and the geometrical theory of diffraction is presented. The relationship of these methods to the asymptotic solution of Maxwell's equations is examined. Their applicability and limitations are discussed by referring to numerous examples in the literature."
"The ability of the geometrical theory of diffraction to predict the radar cross section (RCS) of a perfectly conducting, right circular cone as a function of viewing angle is evaluated by comparison of computed and measured values of RCS. Both vertical and horizontal polarization have been considered for cones ranging from 0.98 to 2.87 wavelengths in diameter at the base and having half angles of 4°, 15°, and 90°; the latter case corresponds to a disk. It is shown that for cones having normalized base circumference (ka) of 8 or 9 the predicted and measured RCS agree very well except when the cone is observed within about 30° of nose-on with vertical polarization, in which case large errors occur for some as yet unknown reason. For smaller cones having diameters about equal to the wavelength (ka around 3), the computed RCS is generally predicted within 5 dB, but the form of the RCS pattern is not predicted very accurately. Backscattering from the base of the cone is very nearly the same as backscattering from a disk of the same diameter for viewing angles within 60° of the normal to the base."
"Two approximate methods have been developed for calculating the radar cross sections of nonconducting bodies. The superposition approximation used to obtain the radar cross sections of dielectric clad bodies requires that the scattering properties of the component parts be known. The modified geometrical optics method, which yields the radar cross sections of dielectric bodies, requires no such initial information. These methods can be applied to some bodies with shapes that cannot be treated by means of the classical boundary-value solutions. Furthermore, the computations required are usually considerably simpler than for the boundary-value solutions even when the latter are obtainable."
"Electromagnetic field waveforms produced by scattering of transient plane waves from finite objects are related to those produced by an impulsive plane wave. Properties of the impulse response waveforms at great distances from the target, particularly in the backscattering direction, are discussed. Various methods for approximation of impulse response waveforms using time and frequency domain concepts are suggested and illustrated. Other applications of response waveforms to target identification and to prediction of radar echo pulse waveforms are suggested."
"This paper is intended to serve both as an introduction to radar cross-section measurements and as an introduction to the several measurement papers that follow in this issue. We discuss the contribution that experimental work makes to theoretical studies. The history of cross-section measurements is reviewed. Some terms are defined, and the major measurement problems are discussed. It is pointed out that the various range geometries and measurement techniques in use today were based on the approach used to solve the basic measurement problems. Some details are given of the more popular present-day measurement systems, i.e., CW, pulsed, FM-CW, Doppler, and the standing-wave ratio method."
"The conditions for radar cross-section measurement are given in terms of permissible variations in the amplitude and phase of the incident field at the target. A number of minimum range conditions are listed and discussed. The minimum range associated with the uniform square aperture antenna is analyzed and its relationship to the sensitivity of measurement is determined. Measurements of small targets in the near zones of focused and unfocused apertures are examined. The substantial range reduction possible with the use of a suitable microwave lens, when measuring large and medium size targets, is indicated."
"Theoretical and measured data are presented pertaining to background levels which can be achieved with the conventional target supports: cellular plastic columns and suspension lines. In each case, target weight, measurement frequency, and target cross section are related and presented in the form of support capability curves. Circular Styrofoam [1] columns are used as typical of cellular plastic supports; the theory for computing cross section of other materials and shapes is also presented. Nylon lines were used as typical suspension supports. A brief discussion of other support techniques is included, but the discussion is limited primarily to the spin drop and dielectric tube supports."
"The scattering matrix of a target generalizes the scattering properties to include a description of their dependence upon radar polarization. The matrix may be determined directly through two successive transmissions at orthogonal polarizations, with reception of each at both of the polarizations. In the laboratory, it is possible to eliminate the requirement for phase measurement by an indirect technique using successive measurements at six polarizations (five of which may be linear). In the case where results are to be applied to linearly polarized radars, it is sufficient to determine the \"linear restricted matrix\" by six linear measurements. Analysis is provided and measurement technology described and evaluated for both classes of indirect measurement."
"A description of the RAT SCAT cross-section facility is reported along with test results indicating measurement capabilities. The facility is described in terms of location, type of range, type of measurements, and the equipment complement. Measurement capabilities are presented in terms of vehicle dimensions and weight, relative to criteria such as system background, vehicle support background, nonplanar fields, and instrumentation and calibration errors."
"The measurement of the radar cross section of full-size targets in flight presents some unique problems. The techniques employed to maintain the dynamic range of the signal, facilitate data handling, and control the target aspect, all contribute to the efficiency with which the requisite data may be gathered and reduced. The approaches taken in solving these problems are discussed in connection with the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) dynamic measurement radar. This system is specially designed for simultaneous pulse-by-pulse measurements at L, S, and X bands permitting a high degree of polarization flexibility. Data reduced from film records, when combined with program-derived aspect information, enables a graphical description of radar cross section to be plotted as a function of target aspect. Data from measurements of a C-54 aircraft have been plotted in this manner and show the variation of σVV, σHH at L and S bands, and σVV, σHH, σVH, σHV, σRR, σLL, σRL, σLR at X band. Operating experience with this system indicates the practicability of performing dynamic measurements."
"Three distinct methods of making high-range resolution radar cross-section (RCS) measurements are discussed. Comparisons are drawn for nanosecond pulse, FM/CW, and frequency-stepping methods of measuring location and magnitude of discrete scattering sources. The effects of using wide bandwidth transmissions on RCS amplitude level and fine structure are quantitatively estimated, and analytical results are presented. The three techniques are effective and yield the desired information about the magnitude and location of discrete scattering sources. Minor differences in data format and convenience of operation are noted, and it is concluded that a need for additional investigation of wide-band scattering phenomena is necessary."
"A method for estimating the radar cross section (RCS) of a complex shape such as an aircraft, a missile, or a satellite can be based on methods already developed for simple shapes. Several examples are reviewed to give the reader an idea of the nature of the results achievable with this approximation method. Since the ultimate objective is the determination of the radar reflectivity properties of an object of practical interest, interpreta ions and comparisons of RCS data are critical. Therefore, the use of averaging methods is also considered with particular emphasis being placed on the use of the cumulative distribution."
"The factors which govern bistatic scattering are discussed and the relations between bistatic and monostatic scattering are presented in terms of the combined effect of individual scattering centers on the target. The concept of reradiation lobe patterns of the individual scattering centers is used to define the bistatic pattern in terms of the monostatic pattern and the bistatic angle β. Analytical arguments then demonstrate that for small bistatic angles, the bistatic RCS is very closely approximated by the monostatic RCS measured on the bisector of the bistatic angle and measured at a frequency lower than the true frequency by the factor cos β/2. The limitations to this approximation which are based on the angular width of the lobe patterns reradiated from individual scattering centers are noted. The approximation is of particular value in translating measured monostatic RCS values into bistatic RCS for small bistatic angles."
"The use of the scattering matrix leads to a formulation of radar reflectivity that is independent of radar polarization, target range, and target rotation about the line of sight. The resulting formulation is applied to the problem of object recognition in free space. Experimental results for right circular cones are presented."
"Electromagnetic scattering from a conducting object can be controlled by loading portions of its surface with distributed or lumped impedances. The scattered field from a loaded object is expressed as a superposition of fields scattered by the unloaded object and fields reradiated by the loading. The interference of these fields can be used to produce the required scatter control. Techniques for evaluating the reradiated field are discussed. A general form for the scattered field as a function of load impedance is shown, and techniques for studying this form are discussed. Theoretical and experimental results for thin, impedance loaded dipoles are compared. For dipole lengths not much greater than λ/2, broadside backscatter can be reduced 30 to 40 dB with a passive center load. Greater lengths and other aspects require multiple passive loads. Backscatter reduction of up to 20 dB has been reported for thick dipoles at broadside incidence, planar surfaces at normal incidence, and long thin objects near end-on incidence."
"The scattering of a plane electromagnetic wave by a metallic sphere loaded with a circumferential slot in the plane normal to the direction of incidence is investigated. The slot is assumed to be of small but nonzero width with a constant electric field across it, and under these assumptions the analysis is exact. The field scattered in any direction is then obtained by the superposition of the field diffracted by an unloaded sphere, and that radiated by an excited slot at the position of the load, with the radiation strength of the slot related to the loading characteristics in the combined problem. Numerical results are presented, primarily for the case of back scattering, and these are compared with experimental measurements made using a sphere with an equatorial slot backed by a radial cavity of adjustable depth. The agreement is excellent."
"The paper investigates scattering by surfaces generated by a superposition of several random processes (such as swell plus sea plus ripple). Explicit expressions for the dependence of the mean scattered power on the scattering geometry and wavelength in terms of the scale roughness and the rms slope of the individual components are derived for bistatic scattering. The special case of backscattering is analyzed more closely, and the importance of the small structure of the surface is demonstrated."
"The discussion begins with a review of some of the physical assumptions that underlie the mathematical model of a temperate plasma as a continuous medium. On the basis of these assumptions, the tensor permittivity of a locally homogeneous electron plasma in a uniform magnetic field is derived and incorporated in the usual Helmholtz integral for the scattering of an electro-magnetic plane wave by a dielectric region. By extending this integral to a plasma with random space-time fluctuations, formulas are derived for the coherent and incoherent components of the power scattered per unit solid angle in any direction. On the basis of these formulas, a summary account is given of the various attempts that have been made to explain the observed scattering from laboratory plasmas, from the ionosphere, and from the turbulent wakes associated with hypersonic re-entry of large terrestrial vehicles into the earth's atmosphere."
"This bibliography consists of 1420 references from over 275 journals or other sources in the open literature, and represents contributions from over 1225 authors. Material has been selected from that now being compiled at the Georgia Institute of Technology for a comprehensive collection of abstracts and references entitled \"A Bibliography of Radar Reflection Characteristics.\" Coverage is extensive but not exhaustive, is international in scope (with heavy representation from the Soviet literature), and is restricted to the time period 1957-1964. Subject coverage includes. scattering and diffraction theory, simple geometrical shapes, geophysical targets (aurorae, ionosphere, meteor trails, sea surface, terrain, and angels and related atmospheric phenomena); planets and space targets; and plasmas. Other topics include: absorbers, aircraft, missiles, chaff and dipoles, acoustic scattering, laser radar, reflectors, and measurement techniques and equipment."
"In this work, rigorous electromagnetic theory is used to determine the nose-on radar cross section of a perfectly conducting cone of finite height. The end cap of the cone is assumed to be a segment of a spherical surface with center at the apex of the cone. Numerical results have been obtained for a cone having a total apex angle of 30 degrees and for values ka ranging from 0.0259 to 5.18, where k = 2π/λ and a is the radius of the base of the cone. These data are compared with theoretical results obtained by using Siegel's Rayleigh method and by using Keller's modified geometrical optics, as well as with experimental results obtained by Keys. The comparisons are instructive below ka = 3.2, the apparent upper limit of validity of the present results."
"The physical optics approximation is not applicable to the determination of electromagnetic scattering from obstacles that are not both large and smooth. In this paper, the second-order Born approximation has been utilized to determine the radar cross section of a fairly large, perfectly conducting finite cone. This method leads to radar cross-section values of proper magnitude for such cones, whereas the usual physical optics method yields cross-section values in error by an order of magnitude."
"This paper proposes an extension of the physical optics method which is simple and valid in both the Rayleigh and resonance regions for the calculation of the nose-on echo area of axially symmetric bodies which are thin compared to the axial length and have sharp apices at both ends. The extended physical optics method assumes the physical optics current over the entire surface of the scatterers. Experimental verification of the method has been carried out by Blore recently [1]. Some comments are made on the relation of the method to the conventional physical optics method, extension to bistatic scattering, and limitations of the method."
"Short pulses of electromagnetic waves, comparable in duration with the extent of the scatterer, have been synthesized by Fourier series. Typical results are presented which demonstrate the presence of the so-called creeping-wave return, while illustrating short-pulse scattering in general."
"A set of parameters can be based on properties of the polarization scattering matrix which are invariant to change in the axial ratio of the polarization ellipse for the measuring antenna, or to rotation of the antenna about the line of sight. These invariant quantities have the advantage that they are free of the effects of Faraday rotation and of certain errors in antenna polarization, yet depend upon the nature of the scattering body and as such can be used to classify certain characteristics of the body. Some of the parameters of special representations for the scattering matrix, such as the null polarization and eigenpolarization, are simply related to the invariant quantities. However, not all of the significant characteristics of the scattering matrix can be specified in terms of invariant quantities, since two degrees of freedom are necessary, one to account for the axial ratio of measuring antenna and one to account for the relative orientation of the antenna and scatterer about the line of sight. The decomposition of these effects into the product of a rotation operator and an ellipticity operator offers a convenient method for critical examination of polarization dependent characteristics."
"This paper describes the design of an extremely high range resolution FM/CW X-band radar and discusses some measurement data taken with this radar. The Delta radar system employs a 35 per cent bandwidth and was built as a research tool for scattering investigations at Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory under Bell Telephone sponsorship.[1] This equipment has demonstrated a range resolution of 3.0 inches as measured at the signal spectrum half-power points. The primary design objective of the radar is to provide the capability to measure radar cross section of scaled models with a range resolution equal to a small fraction of the target's length. Radar cross-section measurements made with this radar have permitted the separation and identification of the individual scattering contributions on several target bodies. Data from three types of radar targets are presented and discussed. Particular theoretical interest centers on the measurement of the sphere-capped cone, for which the measurements bear out simple arguments of electro-magnetic theory to demonstrate that: 1) Discontinuities of geometric surface curvature on a metallic body are pronounced scatterers. 2) There is no scattering from the optical shadow boundary. 3) There is now good evidence of the \"creeping wave\" contribution to the scattered field."
"This paper describes a high-data-rate radar cross-section (RCS) measurement system especially designed for high-angular precision and direct digital recording on magnetic tape. Particular features of this system include semiautomatic control to expedite the measurements sequence while preserving human supervision, optical indexing of model azimuth, and center of gravity adjustment on the model to suppress dynamic errors. The magnetic tape records, together with the ease and precision with which polarization and target roll angle can be set to predetermined values, make the generation of data feasible in quantities suitable for computing machine processing. This permits cross-plotting in various ways, and provides sets of curves which graphically demonstrate the effect of polarization or orientation variations on RCS."
"An experimental system for obtaining frequency-averaged radar cross-section data and high range resolution data has been implemented in X band [1]. This has been incorporated into a pulsed radar, ground plane cross-section facility [2]. The transmitter and local oscillator frequencies are increased stepwise from pulse to pulse over a bandwidth of IGHz. Two useful techniques can be based on this: An averaging technique that reduces the violent oscillations commonly appearing on scattering patterns as a result of interaction between scattering centers on a target; a range resolution technique."
"A new design for high performance anechoic chambers has been developed which offers a wider test region and significantly lower levels of reflected energy. A chamber of this design is in the shape of a pyramidal horn that tapers from a small illuminating end to a large rectangular test region as shown in Fig. 1. With this geometry, the usual specular reflections from chamber walls are avoided. Higher measurement accuracies for both radar cross section and antenna parameters have been verified in a 90 foot long \"tapered\" chamber, recently installed by The B. F. Goodrich Company for The Bunker-Ramo Corporation at Canoga Park, Calif."
"A new type of scattering range is described in which the radar reflection properties of objects are measured by inserting them into a transmission line. The theoretical justification for this technique is presented on the basis of the reciprocity theorem. The results of a testing program are used to indicate the advantages and limitations of the transmission line scattering range."
"This paper describes a test method for obtaining bistatic radar cross-section measurements of full or fractional scale models on an outdoor range. Discretely located passive reflectors and an azimuthally positionable receiving antenna permit measurement of a series of bistatic angle patterns without relocating the model positioning tower or the antenna support structures. Also discussed is a calibration technique for measurements of small bistatic radar cross sections."
"In order to determine ionospheric winds from meteor trails observations, one needs a sensitive radar operating near 30 MHz which can provide a precise localization of the target as well as detect slow target motions. Since, at these frequencies, very short pulses and directional antennas are both impractical, a CW bistatic radar was designed in which direction of arrival, distance, and Doppler measurements are all affected by means of phase comparisons. The precisions obtained are of the order of 0.2 degree, 300 meters, and 1 meter per second, respectively, for an S/N ratio of 25 dB. This was done using three receiving antennas for the angle measurements, three frequencies for the distance measurement, a vertically polarized link to transmit the direct ground wave, and cancelling the backward feedthrough of the transmitting antenna. Experimental results are displayed on a panel, from which they can be read directly."
"In conjunction with the polarization scattering matrix, an error analysis is developed for first-order errors. A set of constraints on the various error quantities is established for a passive antenna. The effects for dissipative and nondissipative errors, together with perturbations due to deviation of the scatterer from the main beam axis and due to thermal noise, is included. The influence or lack of it, of these errors on polarization invariant quantities, rotation about the line of sight, and polarization axial ratios is explicitly developed. Emphasis is also given to calibration procedures for taking account of the various errors as well as Faraday rotation, if present. The essential dependencies are exposed, and the features of both a two-body and a one-body technique are given."
"Magneto-ionic propagation effects are considered at radio frequencies that are sufficiently high so that there is negligible physical separation between the ordinary and extraordinary propagation paths. It is recognized that the sensible magneto-ionic propagation effects are birefringence and Faraday rotation. A matrix representation for magneto-ionic propagation is employed in order to facilitate the determination of the effects of magneto-ionic propagation on the polarization scattering matrix of an arbitrary, monostatic radar target. It is shown that the propagation path must be calibrated with a known, four-way symmetric target when both birefringence and Faraday rotation are present, if it is desired to eliminate the effects of magneto-ionic propagation. However, the determinant of the polarization scattering matrix and the trace of the power scattering matrix are, in general, unaffected by magneto-ionic propagation. If birefringence is absent, then even if the radar target is arbitrary and unknown, the effects of Faraday rotation can be accounted for in a particularly simple manner if the scattering matrix is referred to circular polarization."
"A ripple tank study of wave motion associated with the wave formation in the vicinity of a cone-sphere is discussed. The experimental test facility is described. Included in the interpretation of the ripple tank experiments are the wave formations in the shadow region of the cone-sphere showing traveling and creeping waves."
"Techniques for obtaining radar cross-section data on aircraft include the microwave scaling technique and the optical simulation technique. The theories of microwave scaling [1] and optical simulation [2] have been given previously. This paper presents a comparison between the results of measurements by these two techniques."
"The dielectric constant of a lossy dielectric sphere is determined using C-band radar cross-section measurements. The measurements are made at several frequencies, and the data are compared to calculated values for 1900 dielectric constants. A computer routine helps select the dielectric constant whose calculated radar cross sections most nearly match the experimental data."
"This paper reports on a simulation of the full-scale ground-plane range (RAT SCAT) located at White Sands Proving Grounds. Prove-in measurements obtained on the simulation range agree with the theory of a ground-plane range. The effects of varying the dielectric constant and of the configuration of the ground are presented."
"Different techniques can be used to evaluate the potential performance of radar-absorbing material (RAM). Transmission-line methods, which are based on distributed parameter measurements, are frequently used to determine its constitutive electromagnetic parameters--ε, µ and η, χ. The thin-sample and short-circuit-open-circuit (SCOC) techniques are most common in the UHF-SHF range. Although simple, the thin-sample method cannot always be used because of thickness limitations. The SCOC method, while relieving that limitation, suffers from others less understood. This paper discusses the considerations necessary in determining the parameters of RAM, and points out some limitations which must be recognized."
"In order to develop an electromagnetic scattering model for turbulent wakes behind a re-entry vehicle, a laboratory facility for the measurement of the scattering from a turbulent plasma has been constructed. A diagnostic technique to measure the spectrum of the electron fluctuations within the plasma was first developed. The radar cross section of the turbulent plasma can then be measured and compared with the cross section predicted from the measured plasma properties."
"The purpose of the work described here was to measure the total fields in all directions in the near zone of metallic and dielectric spheres and cones. Measurements were made by using a small probe mounted on a turntable which was part of an image plane. Experimental accuracy was determined by comparing sphere measurements with the exact Mie theory. [1] The first experimental data on the field inside a dielectric sphere known to the authors are featured."
"The short-pulse radar return of a cone-sphere was measured to determine the contribution of individual scattering elements to the total scattered field. Experimental results are presented which show the existence of the creeping-wave contribution and also demonstrate it to be the predominant contribution to the return from this body at nose-on incidence."
"An experimental scheme of measuring surface current density on cylindrical obstacles is presented. Comparisons of experimental and theoretical results are given. The technique is excellent for measuring current density on the obstacle in the illuminated regions."
"The direct measurement of surface fields using probes is a valuable diagnostic tool in scattering studies. The history of these measurements is reviewed, and a new facility, constructed specifically for routine surface field probing, is described."
"The radar cross-section measurement equipment described in this paper was designed as a research tool for use in radar discrimination studies. Measurements of the radar scattering matrix made for various bodies were then used to predict the radar cross section of the body for any arbitrary polarization. All measurements were made at X-band with both metal and dielectric covered models scaled to simulate radar returns at UHF and L-band frequencies. A unique closed loop measurement system was employed to measure amplitude and relative phase to considerably greater accuracy than usual. The results show clearly that it is possible to use the radar scattering matrix to predict accurately the return from a body at any polarization."
"An object identification system that uses multiple observations of the scattering matrix is described. The system requires that detailed a priori knowledge be available on the scattering matrix properties of the objects to be identified. Results of experiments with a simulation of the system are described."
"A study of the conventional meteorological radar target, aluminized paper over an inverted tetrahedral wood frame, shows that it has very poor performance at low angles of elevation in precisely the region where it is likely to move out of radar range in clear weather. An octahedral target, constructed from the same materials, but having a different orientation, has a much improved performance over this conventional target at low elevations. The dihedral reflection is the most important factor in this improved performance, but the better use of the standard trihedral reflection at these low elevations is also important. The downgrading of the reflections from a trihedral corner assembled in the field, usually taken to be 10 dB below that from a perfect trihedral, is overpessimistic; and at low angles of elevation, with the improved orientation of the target, a value of 5 dB is more realistic for maximum radar range calculations. Various uses of dihedral reflectors are discussed. It is pointed out that a square flat plate rotating about a diagonal would be a highly efficient tester of anechoic chambers."
"Two basic types of passive reflectors are described: one uses the spherical Luneberg lens with a circumferential reflecting ring, the other is essentially hollow and lighter, and hence applicable to balloon targets. Both types use parallel-wire grating (Helisphere) techniques to achieve omni-azimuth response with wide elevation coverage, and both have much larger RCS than equal-size metal spheres. Isotropic response can be approached with either type if the proper polarization is used to illuminate the reflector. Recent approaches by other workers are reviewed, including one which provides truly isotropic response with no polarization restrictions."
"The variational method of computing radar scattering cross sections has been applied to the bistatic scattering cross section for chaff dipoles. The average cross section was calculated for three distributions of dipole orientation; uniform, horizonal, and vertical. The geometry considered was for dipoles located near one terminal of a two terminal radio link such that the azimuth and elevations angles of the far terminal were small. Measured values of bistatic cross section were within about 3 dB of predicted values for measurements at a frequency 5652 MHz. Fading rates from 5 Hz to 25 Hz were measured. Space diversity distances were of the order of 2 to 5 feet for this particular 50-mile link."
"Measurements are presented of scattering from a 30- degree metal wedge and from a metal plate which has a thickness of 0.75 wavelength. The measurements were made on an indoor bistatic scattering range operating at 70 GHz. A comparison is made of the experimental data with computations based on Keller's geometrical theory of diffraction. For the wedge, there is good agreement of the measurements and computations over a range of scattering angles in which the scattered power changes by over 40 dB. For the plate, the measurements of scattering agree quite well with the computations based on single diffraction from each edge."
"A general technique for calculating the RCS of metal shapes covered by a relatively thin plasma is described. Computer calculations utilizing this technique are shown to result in predictions that check well with the results of both static and dynamic experiments."
"A series of radar cross-section measurements has been performed on flat base dielectric cones. Curves are presented showing radar cross section as a function of 1) cone size (angle constant) and 2) cone angle (diameter constant). A curve for a thin (0.07λ) conical dielectric shell as a function of circumference/wavelength ratio is also shown. The data are compared to that for metal cones."
"The experimental determination of the RCS of some typical birds is described. The results, which are summarized, can have significant implications in the operation of both ground based and aircraft radars."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Experiments on the phase perturbation of optical beams due to atmospheric turbulence were carried out using coherent radiation at 6328 Å, and 1.15 µ. The measurements were accomplished using a modulated interferometer to produce Doppler beats between a reference beam and one reflected from a plane mirror at a distance. This paper presents preliminary results of the phase measurements taken over total horizontal paths of 4.0 km and 23.8 km. The experimental data were consistent with a propagation theory based on the accepted model of atmospheric turbulence. Perturbation free apertures up to 10 cm were observed in good seeing conditions and as low as 1 mm under poor conditions. The corresponding variance of refractive index of the atmosphere showed a magnitude and diurnal variation consistent with published observations of temperature fluctuations."
"The purpose of this paper is to set forth a comprehensive three-dimensional derivation of the electromagnetic jump conditions at a moving boundary. Also presented are corresponding derivations for the electromagnetic surface traction and power transfer formulas. The derivations are based on a variation of an old technique which dates back to Lorentz' introduction of kinematic axioms for electrodynamics. The surface of electromagnetic discontinuity is allowed to move and deform in an arbitrary manner. In addition to the Helmholtz vector-flux theorem which Lorentz employed, two kinematic theorems are utilized in conjunction with Maxwell's equations. Surface charge and surface current are retained in the derivation. These have a marked effect on the current boundary condition and on the surface traction and power transfer formulas. A clear distinction is made between the material velocity and the abstract velocity symbol appearing in the Lorentz integral axioms. New modifications based on this distinction permit derivation of the boundary conditions in a general form applicable to any moving surface of electromagnetic discontinuity, irrespective of the ambient motion of the material medium."
"Passive electrical measurement of three tornados in the Oklahoma area have been made and are being reported upon. The measurements made include point discharge current, 18.5-kc/s sferics, along with 10-, 50-, 100-, and 175-kc/s, and 30-Mc/s sferics. The preceding measurements of tornados are compared with a typical local thunderstorm. In this comparison, it is shown that the electrical discharges within the tornados are much more intense than in local thunderstorms, particularly in frequency of occurrence. Data also show that the normal frequency spectrum of sferics radiation is different from the frequency spectrum of the tornados measured. Furthermore, the tornado sferics appear to have a definite aperiodic structure that may be present to a limited extent in the intense portion of a thunderstorm. Similarities between the measurements made on the Oklahoma tornados and Jones's work are pointed out. Finally, it is suggested that a coupling between the electrical and mechanical energies of the tornado may be responsible for the difference noted between tornado sferics and thunderstorm sferics."
"This paper presents modern network theory design data (rather than image parameter data) for one class of ladder network SSB crystal filters. The filter configuration involved uses crystals and capacitors only, so that the physical size of the resulting filters can be made quite small. A simple frequency transformation is first derived which enables the wealth of design data presently available for symmetrical response shape filters to be applied to the SSB response under consideration. It is shown that the transfer function being considered has n nonconjugate complex poles and n coincident zeros in the fractional bandwidth left half-plane. From the frequency transformation developed, graphs are presented for n-pole, n-coincident-zero SSB relative-attenuation shapes for n = 6, 8, 10, and 12, with a pass band peak-to-valley ratio of zero decibels; and a computation example shows how graphs may be prepared for any n, and any pass band peak-to-valley ratio. Specific design equations are presented for all the elements involved in both the upper and lower SSB filter structures, and from these an equation is derived which shows how crystal units limit the maximum fractional bandwidth which can be obtained."
"The information available about Mars and Venus and their atmospheres has been examined to determine the electro-magnetic propagation characteristics of each planet. Consideration of some preliminary model atmospheres [6] indicates that the electro-magnetic propagation effective radius of Venus is between 7400 and 13 900 km. Other models are discussed which give even larger effective radii and lead to the limit of a plane surface. The troposphere of Mars, because of its low density, was shown to have essentially no effect on the propagation loss between points on the surface or near the surface. An examination of the knowledge of the dielectric constants and conductivities of the surface revealed considerable uncertainties, Measured values of the dielectric constant are between 2.2 and 7.1 for the Venusian surface. The conductivity probably is 10-3mhos/meter or less for both the Venusian and Martian surfaces if they have compositions similar to dry terrestrial soil. No measurement of the dielectric constant of the surface of Mars has been published. Mars and Venus are strongly believed to have ionospheres in their atmospheres, but only crude estimations are available for the electron densities and the altitudes of these ionospheres."
"With reference to the above-named correspondence by A. Papoulis [ibid., vol. 53, p. 526, May 1965] the commentor points out that in order to determine the density of the process z(t) = a sin (ωt + ϕ) it is not necessary to make the assumption that ϕ is independent of a. The necessary assumption (a much weaker one) is rather the stationarity of the conditional distribution ω(ϕ|a); it then follows that ϕ is independent of a and that the distribution of ϕ is uniform. This result was proved in 1958 by Bunkin and Gudzenko, as previously referred to by the commentor in the IRE PROCEEDIXGS [ibid., vol. 50, p. 1997, September 1962]."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The most important and successful industrial applications for ultrasonics are summarized and differentiated into two categories: 1) applications where ultrasonics is employed at low power for measurement and control, and 2) applications where high ultrasonic power is employed to modify the material by the dissipation of energy. Descriptions are given of well-established uses, known uses without large-scale industrial application, and recent developments which promise to assume increased importance. In each instance, the underlying concepts, the equipment construction, and the field of application are indicated."
"The capabilities of present integrated circuits are limited since only electrical interactions in solids are being utilized. The point of view is presented that additional degrees of freedom will be obtained in the future through the use of \"Functional\" electronic devices which also utilize mechanical, thermal, radiation, and/or magnetic phenomena. Development of these functional devices will come in response to pressure to overcome specific limitations imposed by present technology. In particular, no satisfactory substitute for an inductor is presently available in integrated electronics technology. The most serious limitation which results is the inability to achieve a narrow band-pass frequency response, a limitation which hinders the full exploitation of present capabilities in a wide variety of systems. Electromechanical resonators offer an extremely promising solution to this \"tuning problem\" because of their inherent compatibility of size and stability of Q and resonant frequency. Progress to date on integratable mechanically resonant devices covering the frequency range from less than 1 kc/s to more than 100 Mc/s is reviewed. These devices stimulate the imagination to conceive a variety of other new electromechanical devices. Therefore, it is predicted that the marriage of the ultrasonics and integrated electronics technologies will give birth to an exciting and fruitful new field of investigation."
"This paper outlines the fundamental aspects of the technology of sonar. Particular attention is given to the properties of the ocean that limit the propagation of underwater sound and to the inherent background noises that limit the performance of sonar. The basic choices that are available in design to meet these limitations are discussed and the present state of the art is described in broad terms."
"This is primarily a tutorial paper on the use of ultrasonic velocity data, in conjunction with data on the specific heat and thermal expansion, to find the adiabatic and isothermal elastic coefficients and their first derivatives with respect to pressure and temperature. Introductory sections on the equations of continuum mechanics and on isentropic propagation of small-amplitude waves establish the basis for subsequent derivations. Two sections on established loss mechanisms illustrate some limitations of the assumption of isentropic propagation used in the remainder of the paper, and tend to justify this assumption for moderate frequencies. One of these sections derives the classical solution for the loss arising from heat conduction in a thermoelastic but nonviscous anisotropic solid. In this case, instead of assuming isentropic changes of state, the energy equation is used to determine the nature of the changes which take place. Another brief section discusses losses of a viscous type. Except for a final section which reviews some applications of third-order elastic coefficients, the remainder of the paper deals with the interpretation of data on the transit times for ultrasonic waves (\"velocity data\"). It is proved that the bulk modulus at any pressure is related to the effective elastic coefficients for wave propagation at that pressure by the same formula as at zero pressure. Hence, the correct derivative of the bulk modulus is obtained by differentiating the formula, interpreting the derivatives as derivatives of the effective elastic coefficients. Formulas and numerical examples are given for the conversion from the adiabatic to the isothermal bulk modulus and the conversion from pressure and temperature derivatives of the adiabatic bulk modulus to pressure and temperature derivatives of the isothermal bulk modulus. General formulas for the processing of ultrasonic data are given and specialized to cubic crystals. It is emphasized that all the first pressure derivatives of effective elastic coefficients, evaluated at zero pressure, can be calculated from the data without calculating the path length and density at any elevated pressure."
"Ultrasonics is used in geology for the determination of elastic properties of rocks and minerals. For measurements on rocks, techniques with precisions of a few percent have come into use; these measure delay times of elastic waves propagating through specimens several inches long. For single crystals, the techniques are the same as those used in solid-state physics; they are basically interferometric methods. Techniques of measurement are reviewed. An extensive bibliography is included."
"The study of molecular phenomena in liquids using ultrasonic measurements is reviewed. Structural and isomeric relaxation are discussed in reasonable detail to illustrate the methods of research. There are brief discussions of viscoelastic and relaxation theory, techniques of measurement, vibrational relaxation, relaxation caused by molecular association, critical-point phenomena, and acoustic cavitation."
"Measurements on the velocity and the attenuation of elastic waves in solutions can reveal changes internal to the solution, such as changes in the concentrations of the constituents. Any such change is characterized by a relaxation time, and the effect on velocity and attenuation is most apparent when the wave has angular frequency equal to the relaxation time; for many situations, such frequency lies in the range accessible to ultrasonic measurement. After developing the necessary background, this article describes the progress that has been made in applying ultrasonics to the chemistry of electrolytes."
"Fewer applications were found for the use of ultrasonics in air than for ultrasonics in liquids or solids. This was primarily because of the inherent limitations of generating high-intensity sound levels in a gaseous medium, and also because of the extremely high attenuation that accompanies in the propagation of ultrasonic energy through air. Several types of transducers are described for the generation and reception of ultrasonic sound in air. Data are presented in the form of engineering design charts which include several quantitative relationships between piston displacements, acoustic power, sound pressure level, beam patterns, attenuation, and additional fundamental information for use in the design of ultrasonic equipment to achieve the transmission of high-frequency sound over a specified range. Due to the natural limitations in the transmission of ultrasonics in air over large distances, the major applications have been in remote control systems, proximity indicators, automatic counting, burglar- and fire-protection systems, and short-range carrier telephony."
"Properties of piezoelectric crystals and ceramics are reviewed as they affect use of such materials in electroacoustic transducers. Extensive data on lead titanate-zirconate ceramics are presented to help in selection of the appropriate material for a variety of applications in the lower and medium frequency range, up to several megacycles per second. Quartz and several recently discovered piezoelectric crystals will share the higher megacycle range."
"The generation of microwave acoustic waves by the resonance modes in a magnetic film is discussed. An initial orientation is provided by means of a review of previous research, and this is followed by a description of the experimental technique. Next, in a section on theory, equations of motion for the elastic waves with magnetostrictive driving terms are derived and solved for the case of a magnetic film which is isotropic, both elastically and magnetostrictively, and which is evaporated onto a substrate rod of arbitrary acoustic impedance. The resulting phonon power expression shows that space variations in the magnetoelastic constant, as well as in the microwave magnetization, provide sources for the phonon generation. Also, the expression illustrates that an interaction can easily occur for unequal spin wave and phonon k values. The phonon power expression is applied to the cases of ferromagnetic resonance (FMR) and spin-wave resonance (SWR). The observed polarizations of the acoustic waves as a function of magnetization angle check with the theory in the FMR case. Qualitative agreement with theory also appears likely in the case of the phonon generation on certain SWR peaks. Uncertainties concerning the actual precessional mode in the film, however, contribute in making a quantitative comparison of experiment and theory rather difficult. It is shown that transducer frequency-response measurements offer promise of shedding light on the nature of the precessional modes. Finally, the assumed precessional mode and the phonon generation from this mode are described for the case of a microwave interaction with a strip-domain structure in a magnetic film. The strip-domain resonance (SDR) generates longitudinal acoustic waves and occurs at very low dc magnetic field values. By utilizing SDR and the dielectric cavity technique, efficient means for generating coherent acoustic power in the upper microwave-frequency region may be obtained."
"Techniques have been developed for the vacuum deposition of cadmium sulphide ultrasonic transducers for generating either longitudinal or linearly polarized shear waves over the frequency range from below 100 Mc to at least 1.8 Gc. These transducers are relatively quick and simple to make and are considerably more efficient and wider in bandwidth than those presently used in this frequency range. Conversion losses for one transducer as low as 6 dB have been obtained at 300 Mc rising to about 20 dB at 1.6 Gc. Discrimination against all unwanted modes of greater than 30 dB over a 30 percent bandwidth has been achieved."
"The types of ultrasonic delay lines in common use are described, their limitations are noted, and important design considerations are outlined. Particular attention is given to recently evolved dispersive lines suitable for radar pulse compression systems."
"The low-loss propagation of microwave phonons at room temperature in certain single crystals makes practical the construction of microwave acoustic delay (MAD) lines. The properties of these solid-state units are discussed and compared to those of more conventional microwave delay devices. Various possible applications of solid-state lines are suggested and the present status of these units is reviewed. The dispersive properties of magnetoelastic and magnetostatic wave propagation are also outlined and practical considerations governing their use are discussed. Microwave acoustic delay devices not only offer size and weight advantages over conventional microwave delay lines, but also offer improved performance and in many cases lower cost than the conventional units."
"Several kinds of interactions of ultrasound in semiconductors are reviewed. The subjects discussed are the effects of interaction with 1) thermal phonons, which produce temperature dependent attenuation; 2) free carriers, which may give attenuation or amplification; 3) electrons bound to shallow donors, giving rise to attenuation at low temperatures; and 4) other ultrasonic waves, which may give attenuation or amplification. An introduction to relaxation effects is included."
"Several interesting phenomena involving the interaction of ultrasonic waves and electrons have been observed in piezo-electric semiconductors. These include the processes of ultrasonic amplification and nonlinear harmonic generation, which are manifestations of the action of electrons on ultrasonic waves. The reaction upon the electrons as a result of their strong coupling to ultrasonic waves is manifested by the phenomena of current saturation and current oscillations in amplifying semiconductor crystals. We discuss the principle of acoustoelectric amplification and the role it plays in these effects. The difference between the amplification process and the Cerenkov emission of sound waves is emphasized. The generation of harmonics of the sound wave due to the nonlinear transport properties of the electrons is reviewed. Various models of current saturation are considered, including an elementary treatment of the role of acoustoelectric fields. A discussion is given of the possibility of propagating collective sound waves under amplifying conditions and the role that this may play in the current oscillations in cadmium sulphide."
"Traveling-wave amplification of elastic waves in piezoelectric material can be used to produce net electrical power gain over a wide range of frequencies. It is of interest to estimate how the gains, bandwidths, and noise figures potentially obtainable with this kind of amplifier compare with those for amplification by more traditional methods. Attention is limited to the frequency range such that the wavelength of the sound is large compared with the mean free path of the carriers. Design criteria are suggested and are used to make estimates of performance that should be attainable in the very near future."
"A discussion of plane elastic and magnetoelastic waves follows a statement of the linearized equations of motion of coupled spin and elastic waves. The dispersion equations of θ = 0 and θ = π/2 waves are examined in detail. A description of the generation and propagation of magnetoelastic waves in a nonuniform magnetic field prepares the way for a review of selected experiments which illustrate the transmission and attenuation characteristics of elastic and magnetoelastic waves in yttrium iron garnet. Experimental resuits are presented on (1) time-field behavior of θ = π/2 magnetoelastic waves, (2) time-field-frequency characteristics of θ = 0 magnetoelastic waves, (3) polarization reversal of θ = 0 magnetoelastic waves, (4) acoustic Faraday rotation, (5) Mc frequency standing magnetoelastic waves, and (6) loss measurements for elastic and magnetoelastic waves. Finally, some delay line applications of these waves are considered."
"The theory of spin-wave generation in nonuniform magnetic fields is reviewed. Detailed theoretical results concerning the photon-magnon conversion, the magnon-phonon conversion, the frequency- and field-dependence of the delay time, and the insertion loss are presented. A general theory of the nonuniform demagnetizing field of nonellipsoidal samples is described. Experimental results concerning the field dependence of the delay time are presented both for the case in which the spin waves generated are exchange dominated and for the case in which they are dominated by the magnetostatic interaction. The insertion loss was found to vary with the applied magnetic field in an approximately periodic fashion showing two distinct periods of the order of 1 Oe and 100 Oe. The fast variation (period approximately 1 Oe) has been definitely identified as arising from the excitation of magnetoelastic resonances in the nonuniform magnetic field near the endfaces of the sample. The slow variation (period approrimately 100 Oe) is tentatively attributed to the interference of different partial waves arising from the reflection of the primary wave at the sidefaces of the sample."
"Magnetoelastic coupling has proven useful in microwave-frequency delay lines and amplifiers. Techniques for measuring the magnetoelastic coupling constants are reviewed here, and some results for the ferrites and garnets are given. The microscopic origin of magnetoelasfic coupling is also discussed."
"The physical basis for magnetoelastic coupling is presented in terms of simple models. These models are used to illustrate the magnetoelastic nonlinearities present in real crystals, and an enumeration is made of the instabilities which can be excited by means of these nonlinearities. Published material on instability theory and experiments is reviewed, and current possibilities for device applications are briefly evaluated."
"The interaction of ultrasonic beams in solid media has only recently been explored experimentally. The techniques developed for this purpose are reviewed and the experimental results are related to the anharmonic properties of the solid. The origin of these anharmonic properties is discussed."
"A simplified theory of traveling-wave ultrasonic non-linear interactions is presented, and experimental results obtained for the case of parametric amplification are given. A method of suppressing undesired parametric interactions through the use of ultrasonic magnetic resonance dispersion is described. The theory is also applied to amplification with incoherent pumping."
"The interaction of phonons with paramagnetic spin systems is best characterized by coupling constants which relate the energy shift in the spin system to the strain introduced into the lattice. The theory of spin-phonon interactions is reviewed, and the coupling constants, as experimentally obtained, are compared to those which are most conveniently calculated. Generally, the results calculated on the basis of the point-charge theory are in reasonable agreement with the experimental results. A number of special topics involving spinophonon interactions are discussed, including double quantum detection of phonons, propagation in a dispersive medium, and the phonon maser."
"A review of the interactions of high-frequency acoustic waves with nuclear spins in solids is presented here. These interactions result from the modulation of internal magnetic fields and electric field gradients by the impressed acoustic wave. The acoustic technique is especially useful in investigating the coupling of nuclear spins to the lattice vibrations (phonons) of the solid, and in many ways serves to complement the technique of nuclear magnetic resonance. After a qualitative introduction, the theory of nuclear spin-phonon absorption is given, both for the general case and for the special case of dynamic electric quadrupole coupling. The techniques of direct acoustic absorption and of acoustic saturation are described, and a brief summary is given of the results obtained to date."
"This paper reviews ultrasonic research on the electronic properties of metals performed since the first observations, about ten years ago, that at low temperatures electrons are responsible for the primary contribution to the ultrasonic attenuation. After a description of the Fermi surface and other aspects of the physics of electrons in metals, there is a sketch of the origins of geometric resonances, acoustic cyclotron resonances, and quantum oscillations, as well as other less familiar magnetoacoustic effects in the ultrasonic attenuation in pure metals. The types of information that each of these effects can give about the Fermi surface are cited. Then there is a discussion of ultrasonic attenuation experiments in superconductors, and of the kinds of information that these experiments can provide. In each area, the present status of research is indicated. The paper concludes with a brief description of the experimental techniques involved in this branch of research. Included are some relatively new techniques for performing simultaneous experiments at several ultrasonic frequencies and for performing ultrasonic attenuation experiments in metals at 9 Gc/s."
"The interaction of sound waves at microwave frequencies and electromagnetic waves at optical frequencies is denoted by the term Brillouin scattering. In the past, this type of scattering has been used for measuring elastic constants of materials. Interest in this subject has been renewed with the availability of coherent light from a laser and there are now a variety of problems where this interaction can be utilized. It can be used to modify an optical beam by either deflecting it in space or translating it in frequency. It can be used to monitor the spatial distribution of acoustic energy. Brillouin scattering from thermal sound waves can be used to determine the velocity of sound and attenuation in media where it is difficult to use more conventional means. With stimulated Brillouin scattering an intense light beam can generate coherent sound of great intensity. In this article we discuss each of these cases and calculate the interaction in terms of classical parametric equations of traveling wave systems. The familiar forms of parametric amplifiers and parametric oscillators are exhibited. Recent experimental results are summarized and serve to confirm the simple picture wherein the two wave systems are coupled together by the photoelastic and electrostrictive constants of the medium."
"The development of monochromatic, intense, and highly directional laser light sources has made it possible to measure accurately the velocity, the frequency, and the lifetimes of thermally excited hypersonic sound waves. The technique employed is to study the spectrum of the light scattered from the thermally generated sound waves in the medium. A theory is presented which demonstrates explicitly the information contained in the intensity, the spectral positions, and spectral widths of the scattered light. An experimental system is also described to measure the spectrum. Preliminary data is presented on the velocity and lifetimes of ∼6 Gc/s sound waves in water and toluene."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The statistical performance of pulsed optical radars that use energy detection is considered. While the signal photoelectron statistics produced by a return from a specular target are Poisson, those produced by a return from a rough target are shown to be negative binomial. Radar performance is shown to depend on the number of spatial correlation cells of energy density observed by the receiving aperture, with performance generally deteriorating as the number of observed cells decreases. The physical factors influencing the number of observed correlation cells for the cases of partial and total interception of the transmitted beam are examined."
"An efficient algorithm is proposed for the computer synthesis of linear networks of arbitrary configuration. Given a circuit approximately realizing a network function T(s), the element values are perturbed until T(s) is precisely realized. In the process, positive elements may be \"grown\" across nodes as required, or may be forced to desired values. Examples in the areas of passive and active filter design are given, and limitations of the procedure are discussed. Also, the method is shown to be related to the theory of equivalent networks."
"Electrochemical cells in which the concentration of an ionic species in a chamber can be varied by means of an applied electrical signal constitute low-frequency analogs of the junction transistor. The analogy is pursued here by deriving equivalent circuits for such cells under large signal dc and transient conditions. In one sense the electrochemical cell may be regarded as a \"perfect\" semiconductor (no recombination of charge carriers). Therefore, parallels are noted to transistor equivalent circuits, particularly the charge control model, and equivalent switching-time equations are derived. Experimental data is compared to predicted results, and an electrochemical version of the Eccles-Jordan flip-flop is presented."
"High gain silicon photodetectors were designed and fabricated using a sandwich structure of gold compensated n-type material. Steady-state photoconductive current gains as high as 26 were measured, while transient peak gains of 50 were attained. The measured response time varied from 10-6to 2×10-7sec, depending inversely upon the incident light intensity. The electron lifetimes were calculated using the existing capture cross-section data of the gold recombination centers. These results are in good agreement with the estimated electron lifetime based upon the measured photoconductive current gain and the calculated transit time values. The detectivity of some of the devices was typically D*(λp, 900, 1) =9.5×109cm (c/s)1/2/watt and the noise equivalent power NEP = 1.6×10-11watts/(c/s)1/2."
"An oscillator can be locked in frequency by an external signal which is injected into the oscillator. In the oscillator model developed by Adler [1], the mechanism of the locking process depends upon the following. 1) The initial frequency difference between the oscillator and external signals. 2) The relative amplitude between the injected and the oscillator signals. 3) The circuit parameters. There are cases when the time required for locking must be known, particularly when an oscillator is being locked to a pulsed signal. In this paper, the work of Adler is extended to develop an equation which is useful for higher levels of locking signal, a case often encountered when an oscillator is being injection locked by a pulsed signal. Because the solution of this equation is unwieldy and difficult to understand intuitively, except in very special cases, curves describing the locking mechanism were obtained using a digital computer. These curves enable a designer to construct oscillators which will provide a desired performance. The curves were checked experimentally and showed a close agreement between predicted and measured results. The experimental data indicates that the theory describes the locking time remarkably well even at high levels of locking signal."
"A previously reported YIG-tuned tunnel diode oscillator was limited in its upper frequency of oscillation by the resonance of the diode capacitance with the inductance of the YIG coupling loop. The oscillator described here was designed to operate above this resonance, which is one of the causes of the curvature at the low frequency end of the tuning curve. The tunnel diode used is a Microwave Associates MA 4655 Gallium-Arsenide diode, having an operating (large signal) self-resonance at 10.3 GHz. It has a peak current of 25 mA and a resistive cutoff frequency of 25 GHz. The YIG sphere has a diameter of 0.040 inch and a saturation magnetization of 1750 gauss. It was oriented with one of the easy axes parallel to the applied magnetic field. The magnetic field was varied from 1120 to 3360 gauss in order to tune the oscillator from 5.1 to 10.2 GHz."
"The z-form technique is cited in several texts as a procedure for calculating a time series from the Laplace transform without factoring. Originally attributed to Boxer and Thaler [ibid., vol. 44, pp. 89-101, January 1965], it is cited by Thaler and Pastel [1962], J.E. Gibson [1963], and Horowitz [1963]. Horowitz bases his development on that of Wasow [1957]. Wasow's presentation is more exact and convicing than that of Boxer and Thaler. There are some minor differences but both the Wasow and the Boxer-Thaler approximations areessentially the same. It is concluded that while Wasow as well as Boxer and Thaler may be right when the coefficients are exact, the approximation is highly sensitive to small errors and cannot be relied on to yield useful results."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The development of seismometer arrays in the context of nuclear detection is briefly outlined. The original array concept was for ten seismometers distributed in an area of a few square kilometers, but technological progress with magnetic tape recording and subsequent processing led to the construction of crossed linear arrays with dimensions of a few tens of kilometers. The linear arrays, with dimensions such that the delays between arrival at the various elements were of the order of the dominant signal period, demonstrated the usefulness of velocity filtering. Gradually there arose the concept of a few extremely large and powerful arrays replacing the network of many less sophisticated stations. Thus there has come into being the LASA, virtually an array of arrays."
"One of the most useful techniques for improving capability to observe small remote seismic events is to connect a large number of seismic sensors distributed in the horizontal plane so as to form an array. This has proved to be of great interest in seismological research and is particularly useful in the monitoring of underground nuclear tests, since the events are of small magnitude and the criteria used to distinguish source type depend on freeing the weak signal as far as possible from additive microseismic noise, reverberation components, and interfering earthquake activity that might chance to occur simultaneously. Results achieved by the use of seismic arrays of several kilometers aperture and several tens of sensors were sufficiently promising to suggest that substantial further improvements might be expected from an even larger array having more than an order of magnitude greater aperture and number of sensors. Such a Large Aperture Seismic Array (LASA) has been built and is being evaluated. The number of sensors is 525 and the aperture is 200 km. The notions underlying the LASA development are presented briefly in this paper, which serves as an introduction to three more detailed papers in this issue. After a brief historical resume, the principles of array signal processing are reviewed, and a prognosis of LASA capabilities is presented. The paper concludes with a discussion of the extent to which the results obtained to date have confirmed our expectations."
"The implementation of the LASA sensing system is the subject of the following paper. The selection of the geographical area has already been treated. The design of the sensing system, the establishment of system specifications, and the selection of components are discussed. The installation of the seismograph systems is described in some detail. This includes the drilling and casing of 504 two-hundred foot wells and 21 five-hundred foot wells, the trenching of 3 000 000 feet of cable, and the installation and calibration of the 525 seismometers and amplifiers. To meet the operational requirements the 525 sensing circuits were equalized to the same system sensitivity, 20 millivolts per millimicron of earth motion which corresponds roughly to the saturation of a typical amplifier by the signal generated by a magnitude 7.75 event [1]. The maintenance phase has been initiated and is described."
"The complexity and location of the Large Aperture Seismic Array (LASA) pose difficult problems for the system designer. This paper discusses the features of the array, the problems presented, and the solutions chosen to meet them. The location of an array such as LASA is dictated by seismic considerations. Those criteria which affect system design and their implications are discussed with regard to several major components of the system, the signal collection, the communications, the signal recording, and the array control. In the case of the Montana LASA, only a very short time was available for its implementation. This had a major influence on component choice and system design, but did not compromise either the performance or reliability of the system."
"The high resolution of the Large Aperture Seismic Array (LASA) and the volume of data it produces makes many of the recording and processing techniques used for the earlier Vela arrays impractical, obsolete, or both. In this paper, the history of processing for seismic arrays is briefly reviewed, and the recording and processing requirements of the LASA in contrast to past arrays are summarized. Both the on-line use of the LASA for detection of seismic disturbances and the off-line processing of the data for signal analysis are centered around the use of high-speed digital processing equipment. The on-line processing facilities at the LASA Data Center are described, and the current effort to evaluate processing techniques for use with LASA is discussed."
"This paper is a collection of six papers describing recent developments in automated detection and identification of teleseismic earthquakes and explosions in a seismic noise background. The first paper evaluates the assumption that the outputs of seismometer arrays can be added since the signals will reinforce while the noise is cancelled. Signal and noise correlations vs. distance and frequency are presented for an array of 1600 km in extent. The second paper describes a method utilizing orthogonal expansions of the Kautz type in an effort to determine spectral and temporal differences between both types of signals and noise. Theory and measurements indicate that the seismic noise background is largely composed of fundamental and higher mode Rayleigh waves. The third paper describes a thermal equilibrium analogy to estimate the noise energies in each mode to account for the observed depth and frequency behavior. The use of multiple and partial coherence functions for resolving noise backgrounds into their propagation components is described in the fourth paper. Compressional, shear, and surface wave components of signals can be separated from seismic noise backgrounds by recognizing their differing polarization properties, as shown in the fifth paper. The source mechanisms can theoretically be identified from their radiation patterns provided instrument and travel path distortions are removed. A final paper describes this theory and how these various methods of detecting and isolating the signals can be integrated into an automated signal analysis system."
"The problem of separating seismic signals from noise on a multichannel basis, by making use of the spatial organization of the noise, is discussed. A brief description of the method used to synthesize the multi-channel system on a computer is presented. Results obtained by multichannel processing the outputs from a 19-seismometer array, including signal response, noise response, and signal-to-noise ratio improvement are shown. These results are compared with those obtained by performing a simple summation of the array outputs, and are also compared with those which would be expected from simple summation if the noise were not organized in space. A practical method of applying analog multichannel processing in the field is presented. Finally, examples of teleseismic signals which have been extracted on a multichannel basis are shown."
"Sandia Laboratory is developing and testing prototype equipment to continuously record outputs from three short-period and three long-period unattended seismometers for up to 120 days. Timing accuracy will be within 0.1 second throughout the record period. The system will be capable of recording a 70 decibel signal range. As much as 42 decibel attenuation can also be applied to each short-period data channel by an automatic gain control system to compensate for high levels of background noise. Concurrent with the development of the recording system, a playback system is being developed and tested which will convert the recorded data and timing signals to the standard Vela Uniform tape format. According to present schedules, the systems should be fully evaluated in the laboratory and in the field by the beginning of 1967."
"In one program of Project VELA UNIFORM, the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories and Texas Instruments developed the ocean-bottom seismograph as a research tool for the study of acoustical wave energy at the solid earth-water interface generated either by earthquakes or by explosive sources. The seismograph described by this article is a third-generation unit having progressed through more than four years of development, design, and field experiments. The present configuration is spherical, 40 inches in diameter. It has been tested successfully in various locations to a depth of 24 000 feet. The primary components, in addition to the three-component seismometer system, contained within the seismograph are a digital clock having a 40-day capacity, with 0.1 second accuracy, seismic amplifiers capable of detecting noise level of 0.1 microvolt or less, a magnetic tape transport having a 30-day recording capacity for signals of less than 10 c/s frequency, and internal battery power supply for all components. In operation, the seismograph descends to the desired depth free fall, remains unattended and untethered, and is retrieved on sonar code command or preset time by decoupling the anchor base through a cocked spring mechanism, which is triggered by fusion of a small steel wire. Results to date have proved the feasibility of such an ocean-bottom data system, including the important capability to recall the package by sonar code command."
"Instruments for obtaining simultaneous records of ocean-bottom seismic motion are described. Preliminary ocean-bottom seismic data with two simultaneous three-component instruments indicates that instrument noise and water currents may cause small differences in the detailed spectra. The general features of the spectra, however, appear to be the same from proximate instruments."
"Observations of seismic motion and other geophysical parameters on the ocean bottom over extended periods of time and over a wide range of frequencies (periods) provide information on the suitability of the ocean bottom as a site for the detection of seismic events. Instrument systems consisting of long- and short-period seismographs, long- and short-period pressure sensors, a temperature sensor, and a water-current sensor were operated on the ocean bottom. Experience and calculation indicate that these systems can be well coupled to the sediment surface, mechanically stable, and relatively insensitive to water currents. Local and distant earthquakes, tides, microseisms (3-8 seconds period), long-period (2-6 minutes period) pressure disturbances, and temperature fluctuations have been well recorded from the ocean bottom at depths greater than 2000 fm. Instrument systems were implanted at two locations: south of Bermuda (2400 fm depth, seismic measurements only) and west of San Francisco (2200 fm depth). Data were telemetered acoustically to a ship (Bermuda) and via deep-sea cable to a shore station (California). Results to date indicate that the ocean bottom can be a favorable location for the detection of seismic events."
"A qualitative perspective is given of problems encountered in designing systems for the detection and identification of nuclear explosions above the earth's surface. Pertinent physical phenomenology is summarized; detection techniques are explained briefly; effects of natural backgrounds are mentioned; system requirements are discussed; a summary comparative table is presented which incorporates these various considerations. The paper is meant to serve as an introduction to a group of technical papers on diverse related subjects."
"The Vela satellite high-altitude test detection system contains X-ray, gamma-ray, and neutron detectors which sense the radiations generated by a detonation in space. The satellites also contain background radiation monitors which are useful in assessing the effect of natural background radiations on the operation of the detection system. This paper contains a review of some of the problems involved in the design of the system, and a description of the instruments. Three pairs of spacecraft are currently in orbit and the detection systems are operating essentially as expected. A survey of the characteristics of the far magnetosphere and its environs, as determined from the background radiation monitors, will also be presented."
"The block diagrams of detector electronics used in the Vela Satellite Program are discussed in this paper. The auxiliary ground equipment used in conjunction with these instruments is mentioned along with details on the design of two circuits more commonly used in the Vela Satellite detectors."
"This paper describes, in some detail, the system of logics used to provide on-board processing of data from a system of nuclear test detection instruments so that only significant information is relayed to earth. Particular emphasis is placed on some of the design techniques used to ensure long life and conserve power and weight. A discussion of the results of these efforts to date is included."
"Various redundancy tradeoffs with respect to weight, power, reliability, and testing ability are discussed for the Vela spacecraft. The types of redundancy considered were complete circuit (such as quads), standby automatic switchable, standby command switchable, and fully automatic. Complete circuit redundancy was rejected because of weight and power limitations. Standby automatic switchable redundancy was rejected because of possible failure modes and complexity of the automatic detection circuits. Fully automatic redundancy was applied to those portions of the system where a failure would cause loss of the mission. Standby command switchable redundancy was applied to those portions of the system where a failure could be detected and corrected by command switching. The final redundant system is compared with a nonredundant system to indicate the additional weight and power required to accomplish the redundancy design."
"A digital computer program is described that simulates the physical characteristics of the Vela satellite system for the detection of nuclear detonations in space. The program consists of a modular set of subroutines that calculate the output of a nuclear device, the transport of the radiation to each sensor, and the contribution of each sensor output response to the transmitted data word from each satellite. Stochastic elements in the system such as the various event-satellite configurations, background radiation conditions, and data word transmission errors are included in the simulation. The ensemble of data words resulting from a number of replications under statistically identical-system-event conditions yields probabilistic information about the detection capability and false alarm rate of the system. The latter measures of system performance can be investigated by means of a flexible set of decision criteria subroutines that enable the user to investigate the effect of applying to the calculated data various criteria to determine when a sensor can be said to have reported an event and when the system as a whole can be said to have reported an event."
"A statistical analysis of the number of launches required to establish and maintain a system of several spacecraft is made, based on the assumption that replenishment launches can be effected immediately after failure."
"The characteristics of nuclear explosions are first discussed. It is shown that nuclear events can create radio noise signals, change the height distribution of existing ionospheric ionization, and produce fresh ionization; the last effect is the most important in radio detection. The influence of X-rays, γ-rays, neutrons, and radioactive debris in augmenting ionospheric ionization are considered in turn. The most significant increases are at altitudes of 60-100 km, and the consequent modifications to VLF propagation and to the absorption and phase of HF signals traversing the region of enhanced ionization are examined. The general level of the paper is elementary, approximate, and tutorial."
"The purpose of this paper is to examine theoretically the detectability of daytime nuclear bursts via prompt VLF phase anomalies. Detailed consideration is given to low-fission-yield bursts exploded at altitudes below about 150 km. The distribution of atmospheric ionization due to fission-decay-gamma radiation, which is the most important ionizing mechanism for the situations studied here, is calculated for times up to a minute after the bursts. It is noted that, at the deposition altitudes of interest for daytime VLF detection, the distribution of ionization computed for a time of one second after the burst is typical of that which persists for some tens of seconds. By using these one-second values of ionization and by applying existing techniques, equivalent, nonuniform, sharply bounded, earth-ionosphere cavities are constructed. Currently used VLF propagation theory is then applied to compute the bomb-induced phase anomalies for various burst-transmission path configurations. Detection criteria, based upon phase changes which should be distinguishable from those caused by natural events, are chosen. The corresponding detection ranges (the smallest great-circle distance from the burst to the transmission path) for long daytime VLF transmission paths are computed. Numerical results, which show the detection ranges as functions of the height and magnetic latitude of a nominal 5-kiloton fission-yield device, are presented. The manner in which these ranges scale with fission yield is indicated. The detection ranges are shown to depend very strongly upon the burst altitude, but quite weakly on other parameters. For very low bursts the ranges become extremely small while, for burst heights the order of 100 km or more, they are quite large."
"Very low frequency (VLF) sudden phase anomaly (SPA) data obtained during 1963 are presented for comparison with solar X-ray emission measurements made by VELA satellites during the same period. From the SPA data an estimate is made, for each of three flares, of the effective wavelength of monochromatic X rays that would have produced the same VLF phase effects as the actual X-ray emission. In addition, using the X-ray intensity (flux density) measurements of the satellite data and the wavelength functions obtained from the SPA data, estimates are made of the effective recombination coefficients. Furthermore, it is indicated that the VLF phase anomaly produced by X rays from a high altitude nuclear explosion can possibly be distinguished from that produced by X rays from a solar flare."
"Three types of VLF propagation measurements which can be used to determine some characteristics of the lower ionosphere are described. These methods are: 1) determination of the field strength (and ideally the phase) of a continuous wave transmitter as a function of distance, 2) determination of the relative phase and amplitude of a broadband signal, such as an atmospheric, and 3) observing simultaneously the phase and amplitude of a continuous wave signal at a single point remote from the transmitter. The latter method is discussed in detail. Although it cannot alone yield much information about the normal steady-state ionosphere, it can be used to investigate changes in the electron density distribution. In this paper phase and amplitude variations observed during solar flares are used to deduce the corresponding D-region changes, both for a sharply bounded and for an exponentially varying model of the ionosphere. It is further suggested that the exponential model can be used to explain VLF observations made during Polar Cap Absorption events, as well as the somewhat anomalous diurnal variation of VLF signals observed on equatorial paths."
"The high-frequency electromagnetic pulse radiation from nuclear explosions presents a possible detection mechanism. This paper first considers the selective attenuation of the higher-frequency components of the pulse when it travels via ground wave, and shows how the waveform is modified with distance. Effects of the height of the source are included. Propagation via sky wave is investigated, and it is demonstrated that ionospheric dispersion considerably stretches the pulse for reasonable propagation distances. The receiver bandwidth should be selected to match the ionospheric dispersion at the receiver frequency."
"The physical phenomena of the theory of propagation of an electromagnetic pulse at low radiofrequencies are scrutinized from the viewpoint of detection systems. Methods for tagging a point in time on the pulse are described theoretically. The filter action of the propagation medium together with various select receiver filters are considered in the analysis. A particular electromagnetic pulse observed and recorded at a short distance from the source (44.6 km) is propagated theoretically to a great distance ( > 2000 km) as a ground wave. The behavior of the tagged point in time on the pulse is studied both as a function of distance and as a function of the conductivity of the ground. The computer method is also used to determine the attenuation vs. distance function of the pulse. This study provides information of general interest on the subject of low radiofrequency pulse propagation. In addition, the results of this study form a basis for the determination of the effects of ground conductivity on location finding systems, based on the theory of propagation of an electromagnetic pulse."
"This paper considers the detection of nuclear explosions in space by riometer measurement of the effects of explosion-induced ionization on the absorption of high-frequency cosmic noise. The dependence of the riometer response on the X-ray explosion characteristics, the rate of decay of the ionization, and the integration time constant of the riometer are determined. Maximum detection heights are then tabulated based on a criterion of a 1-dB change in riometer response."
"Simple approximate expressions are developed to describe the ring of fluorescent light from X rays impinging on the atmosphere. The relative ranging capability of zenith-oriented detectors is then estimated as a function of effective collecting area, field of view, electronic bandwidth, burst angle, and atmospheric pulse broadening. Narrow fields of view comparable in width to the fluorescent ring are shown to afford greater ranging capability than wide ones for all events more than 10° above local horizon, even under hazy conditions; however, the advantage is at most a factor of two. Both photomultiplier and solid-state detectors are treated. Some consideration is given to the performance of a multistation network, each station of which uses a solid-state detector array fed by a large collecting mirror. Triangulation out to 104or 105km appears feasible and would allow an approximate determination of yield."
"A nuclear explosion far from the earth is a strong source of thermal X-rays that deposit their energy in the upper atmosphere and cause air fluorescence, which provides a method of detecting such explosions by ground instrumentation. Energy deposition occurs in the ionosphere over a region several tens of kilometers thick, but because the X-ray flux and the light emitted travel downward with the same velocity, the time smear along the direct line of sight to the explosion depends only on the X-ray source lifetime and on the stopping time of photoelectrons produced by the X-rays. These times are short, and the effective deposition rate is high; along this line of sight, therefore, is observed a bright flash of light whose direction can serve to locate the explosion in space. If the sky is viewed by a wide-angle detector covering π steradians, a pulse rising in < 1 microsecond and falling to half intensity in ¼ millisecond is obtained. A system for detection of this pulse in the presence of daylight has been developed and is described in this paper. The range for detection is estimated to be R = 105√Yxkilometers in daylight where Yxis the thermal X-ray yield of the explosion in kilotons. At night the range is more than one order of magnitude larger."
"X-rays radiated from a nuclear explosion in space excite fluorescence of air molecules in the upper atmosphere. The fluorescence has a characteristic space-time signature which can be recognized from the ground even against a bright daylight sky. The criteria determining detectability and range are discussed, along with a number of practical systems of detection. False alarms, caused mainly by lightning flashes, can cause excessive triggering of single-station detectors unless discrimination techniques are employed. They also compel reliance on a net of stations for reliable recognition of true, nuclear explosion induced fluorescence."
"This paper deals primarily with the effects of geometric dispersion on low-frequnncy mechanical waves generated by nuclear explosions. This dispersion is the result of the stratification of the atmosphere (to be distinguished from dispersion due to changes in physical characteristics due to changing frequency). It is found that the pressure signal can be divided naturally into an early-arriving acoustic-gravity portion (treated in this report) and a later--by about five percent of the travel time--acoustic portion. In general, both portions of the signal are inversely proportional to the range (geometric spreading included), although, at very great ranges, portions of the gravity wave fall off faster by r1/6; the effect of dispersion is to reduce the signal by r-1/2. Most of the signal is composed of many propagating modes which, at a given time and range, will each demonstrate a characteristic frequency. A simplified treatment of this complicated model picture is presented here. It is argued that a ray treatment for the higher-frequency portion is appropriate. It is shown that the frequency of the long-period signal increases with time. So long as the frequency of the received signal is less than the characteristic frequency of the initiating explosive impulse, it is found that the signal has a universal form for the fundamental mode. Such characteristics as yield, range, and phase velocity merely change the scaling of the signal. It is concluded that attenuation is probably not important for the low-frequency signals (below one c/s) usually observed."
"The Central Radio Propagation Laboratory (CRPL) is conducting a study for the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA), Project VELA, of ground-based techniques for detecting geophysical effects produced by nuclear explosions at altitudes above about 20 km and in space. This activity has been designated HANDS, an abbreviation for High-Altitude Nuclear Detection Studies. A substantial amount of experimental data exists on effects produced by high-altitude explosions and theoretical predictions have been made of effects expected from explosions in space. The ability to record and identify these signatures is limited by a lack of knowledge of natural variations, especially those having fractional-second onset times. The objective of the HANDS is to develop methods for detecting nuclear explosion effects in the natural background. The experimental facility for collecting and processing background data from a collection of colocated geophysical sensors is described."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Interaction effects between injection lasers have been experimentally studied at 2°K and 77°K under pulse conditions in a single block configuration which permits close optical coupling between the lasers. This close coupling made previously reported effects an order of magnitude more prominent and revealed a new effect. The reduction of the threshold current of one laser by the influence of the coherent beam of a second laser by as much as a factor five has been observed. With respect to the quenching of one laser by a second laser, a quenching ratio (defined as the ratio of the quenched power to the quenching power) of 0.7 was obtained. A new effect observed was the reduction of the threshold current of one laser by the influence of the spontaneous emission from a second laser. A reduction of 10 per cent is typical for this effect. A qualitative discussion treating the two lasers as one optical cavity is given to incorporate these effects into one coherent picture. Logical device applications are also discussed."
"The effect of the sheet resistance of the diffused region of a p-n junction photodiode on the diode response is discussed. A differential equation is obtained for diffused region potential in terms of its sheet resistance and the manner in which the diode is illuminated. For zero external bias and low light levels or for large back-bias, the differential equation is linear. The linear equation has been solved for steady illumination and for sinusoidally varying illumination, both falling uniformly on the diode. Current voltage equations and equivalent circuits are obtained for these cases. In the ac case, the equivalent series resistance due to the diffused region sheet resistance and equivalent junction capacitance are found to be frequency dependent. The frequency dependence is interpreted as a decrease in effective diode area at high frequencies. The frequency at which this effect begins to be important is the reciprocal of the product of the diffused region sheet resistance, the junction capacitance per unit area, and the square of the diode width. The effect is slightly dependent on diode and contact geometry; both linear and circular geometries are discussed."
"A one-dimensional analysis has been made to determine properties of diffused p-n junctions in epitaxial layers with nonuniform impurity concentration. Impurity diffusion from the surface and from the substrate is assumed to have complementary error function distribution. The transcendental equations obtained by analytical integration of Poisson's equation were evaluated numerically with the IBM 7090/94. Junction depth, impurity gradient and impurity level at the junction are given for a variety of diffusion parameters and impurity concentrations. In addition, graphs are presented, showing the relationship between reverse voltage and depletion layer thickness, capacitance per unit area, and peak electric field for the case of silicon. A comparison between the actual impurity profile and the usual linear approximation using the impurity gradient at the junction gives the range of depletion layer thickness or reverse voltage in which such an approximation is justified. Further, examples are presented of the electric field distribution in the depletion layer for several impurity concentration profiles. Calculated and experimentally determined values of some readily accessible junction characteristics show reasonably good agreement."
"A radically new technique for the fabrication of integrated circuits which completely changes microelectronic design is described. In place of the back-biased pn junctions usually used for isolation of devices in a substrate, a dielectric is substituted whose properties are such that almost total isolation is achieved with no increase in area. Leakage currents are reduced by several orders of magnitude to around 10-10amperes/cm2, stray capacitances to around 10-5pf/µ2, parasitic npnp and pnpn action is eliminated, and breakdown voltage is increased up to 1000 volts. Great flexibility in the design of components is achieved through the ability to place highly conductive \"wells\" where needed to obtain the benefits of epitaxial techniques, and by the ability to use devices having higher breakdown voltages. The technique makes practically all circuit configurations possible, and greatly enhances the possibilities for fabrication of npn and pnp transistors in the same substrate. Some details on circuits fabricated by this technique are given, such as digital circuits with propagation delay times of 3 nanoseconds and a video amplifier with a gain-bandwidth product of over 700 Mc."
"The spatial correlation of generation-recombination noise in intrinsic germanium is investigated. In an analytical model the specimen is assumed to consist of mutually uncorrelated elements of resistance fluctuation. By comparison with measured values the size of the mutually uncorrelated elements is found to be approximately equal to four times the diffusion length of excess carriers in the semiconductor. A plausible explanation of the above results is indicated. Potential fluctuations at various terminals are calculated utilizing the analytical model and are found to agree with experimentally measured values. It is shown that the potential fluctuations at any pair of terminals is due to both the resistance fluctuations of individual elements and the associated current redistribution in the specimen. The latter gives rise to negative coefficients of spatial correlation which were experimentally verified."
"The description and theory of a method of generating harmonics of a microwave signal by deflection of an electron beam are presented, Examples of deriving output power at harmonics of the deflection frequency for either circular or linear deflection patterns and for both waveguide and cavity output are treated. The system is unusual in that there is power transfer between two streams of energy that are essentially orthogonal to each other in space. Moreover, since coupling of a wave is to the virtual motion of a space charge, which can move at any speed, there is no limitation on the phase velocity of the wave in the output coupler. While emphasis in this paper is on the output coupler, the practical problem of beam deflection is also treated. Finally, the principle of operation is demonstrated. Experiments with prototype models have produced up to 2 watts of 34-Gc power from an 8.5-Gc input, or a conversion efficiency of -24 db to this fourth harmonic."
"The spontaneous deflection of the beam in low voltage, typically low noise, traveling-wave tubes has been studied and attributed to the accumulation of stray charges on the glazed helix rods. A means of measuring the tendency of the helix to show these charging effects will be described. A method of processing of the complete helix which prevents the accumulation of charges but does not seriously affect its cold loss or other microwave properties will be reviewed. Traveling-wave tubes that have been made with helices processed by this technique cannot be made to show charging effects or beam deflections. Six tubes have accumulated 22,000 tube hours with no failures."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Finite difference equation methods and lumped models are applied to the solution of the differential equations for the carrier flow through a quasi-neutral semiconductor bulk region at low, moderate and high injection densities. An unsymmetrically doped diode is approximated by a single section lumped model. The static I-V characteristics for this model at low and high current densities are derived. The small signal equivalent circuit of an unsymmetrically doped diode at high injection densities is presented. Approximations for the elements (R, L, C) of this equivalent circuit are calculated from the single section lumped model. The static characteristic and the small signal equivalent circuit elements are in satisfactory agreements with experimental results for diodes in which the base length is not too long compared to the diffusion length."
"It has previously been found that when photons are injected into a photodiode biased to the avalanche region, that there is a multiplication of the signal over the usual bias-voltage signal level. This multiplication is due to the created electron-hole pairs colliding with the lattice and creating more electron-hole pairs under the influence of the large biasing field. This paper presents a circuit analysis of this effect when using a high-speed silicon (Si) P-I-N photodiode and shows what the SNR bandwidth and Noise Equivalent Power (NEP) are under both normal bias conditions and avalanche bias conditions. It is shown that there is a substantial improvement in the NEP and SNR ratio at high frequencies when operating at avalanche so that the device may be made nearly shot noise limited if the multiplication factorMis sufficiently large. Microwave measurements on such a high-speed diode gave gains greater than 30 dB with a SNR improvement of 13 dB at 1.45 Gc/s. The effect was observed at frequencies as high as 2.54 Gc/s and appeared to follow a linear 1/M law with bias voltage in the avalanche region with some deviation at large values ofM. The device SNR ratio at moderately high light levels is determined by the signal-to-shot noise ratio. A high modulation depth is found to be essential to reduce shot noise. Analysis of the diode circuit reveals that the detected signal power bandwidth product is a constant. The NEP is found to vary directly with the bandwidth in a pulse type system. Avalanche operation increases the signal power by M2and decreases the NEP byMat high frequencies. The photodiode appears to nearly provide the solid-state analog of the photomultiplier tube."
"A phenomenological treatment of saturation effects in solid-state laser amplifiers is presented. Numerical calculations are carried out for neodymium doped CaWO4and glass amplifiers."
"The gate modulated voltage breakdown of the drain diode in the MOS transistor is considered and shown to be direct electric field control of a reverse biased surfacep+-njunction. A structure designed to isolate this effect has been suggested by Atalla and experimentally evaluated by Nathanson, et al., and by the authors. The mechanism of operation discussed involves the application of an external electric field normal to the surface of the highly doped side of the junction to produce direct field emission of carriers. The reverse biased low doped side of the junction then acts as a collector of the field-emitted carriers resulting in a net current flow across the junction. Using the Atalla structure, a model is presented and a quantitative theory is developed to explain and predict the device performance. It is found that the actual device may be represented as an MOS transistor in series with an \"ideal\" field-controlled tunnel junction, and that the performance of the actual device can never be better than that of the limiting MOS transistor. The theoretical characteristics of the ideal field-controlled tunnel junction are derived and found to agree closely with the experimental results. It is shown that, at the present time, the device is limited by the \"ideal\" tunnel junction region and not by the series MOS transistor."
"Theories and experimental facts of vacuum breakdown are reviewed. Measurements with gap spacings of 0.015 inch indicate little or no variation of breakdown with tube pressure between approximately 10-5and 10-7torr and with frequency of the applied voltage from 0 to 6 Mc/s. Variation of electrode materials, geometry, and surface preparations provide no marked improvements, but high voltage aging or conditioning does improve the breakdown characteristics by a factor of as much as 2 to 1. Enhanced field emission, from whisker-like protrusions on the cathode surface, causes individual beams of field-emission prebreakdown current to flow from cathode to anode. This prebreakdown current can cause resistive heating of the protrusion and localized electron-bombardment anode heating both of which produce vaporization and destructive effects which could lead to breakdown."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The dc properties of the system Si:SiO2(6000 Å), metal have been investigated at 200-400°C. The system shows unidirectional conduction at 400°C. Little or no current is observed when the silicon electrode is positive. There is a region of reversible charge storage and discharge at negative silicon voltages; the center of this region is around -2 volts when the contact metal is gold, but more positive when it is aluminum. The quantities of charge stored range from 4 × 1012to 2 × 1014charges/cm2. At still more negative silicon voltages there is a region of ohmic conduction, the resistivity at 400°C ranging from 1012to 1014Ω-cm. The charge storage, which is far greater than that anticipated from the oxide capacitance, can be shown to occur principally in the oxide under the metal contact, and not over a broad adjacent area. Storage of charge in the oxide causes ann-type shift of the underlying silicon surface. Charges can develop in the oxide as a result of nonelectrical processes, such as high-temperature gas baking treatments. Conversion of the upper 600 Å of the oxide to a phosphate glass eliminates both charge storage and ohmic conductivity in the oxide. The results described are interpreted in terms of an electrochemical potential existing across the oxide, and the presence of mobile charged species within the oxide. Charge storage can occur as the result of double-layer formation by the mobile charged species, or of its electrochemical discharge at the electrodes. The unidirectionality of the ohmic conduction is considered to result from electrolytic rectification at the silicon-oxide boundary."
"A structural model is proposed to explain various phenomena which occur in grown SiO2films. In this model, oxygen interstitials in ionic form are the predominant diffusing species during the growth. In neutral form they can act as acceptor states. Reduction of the oxide by hydrogen (e.g., growth in steam, heat treatment in H2containing gas) or by metal (e.g., interaction with the gate electrode in metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) devices) results in trivalent silicon. This defect may form a donor surface state. The migration of metal ions under the influence of an electric field can lead to an asymmetric current-voltage characteristic of a Si-SiO2-Me system. Transient and hysteresis effects as well as the asymmetric shift in the surface potential caused by biasing MOS devices at relatively high temperatures are attributed to an inhomogeneous distribution of defects in the oxide (as a result of the oxidation) and/or to the motion of metal ions originating from the gate electrode."
"Electronic interactions between impurities incorporated into the oxide film on silicon (or other semiconductors) and the semiconductor substrate are postulated. The impurities are presumed to change the Fermi level in the oxide, thus causing charge transfer between the oxide and the semiconductor surface. The anodic behavior ofN-type silicon contacting an electrolyte as a function of impurities incorporated into the oxide is suggested as experimental verification of this concept."
"This paper presents data on the effects of hydrogen heat treatments on oxide-protected silicon. The test vehicle is a metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) transistor with its metal gate electrode not yet attached. The device was exposed to a hydrogen-containing atmosphere for various times and temperatures, and the resultant channel resistances were monitored. These resistances were then normalized to sheet resistivities. The experimental techniques and some of the problems encountered are discussed, as well as early application of the data to MOS and bipolar devices."
"The admittance-voltage characteristic of a metal-insulator-semiconductor capacitor is explained in the depletion-inversion range for the case in which the entire surface of the semiconductor is inverted by charges in the insulator and the frequency is too high for minority carriers to follow. Lateral ac current flow into the inverted layer beyond the field plate has to be considered. The model is verified by several experiments and a simple equivalent circuit is shown to quantitatively fit the characteristics. The lateral current model is used to explain drift in the characteristics caused by ion migration along the oxide surface under dc bias. This type of ion migration is separated from true changes of charge density within the insulator."
"Impedance measurements utilizing evaporated ring-dot metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) structures are shown to give accurate values of sheet conductance of inversion layers. The well-defined geometry simplifies evaluation of experimentally measured quantities. The results obtained are shown to be independent of the geometry of the test structures and of frequency. Limitations of the technique due to shunting by the substrate are discussed. It is found that for a channel sheet resistance of 104ohms the technique can be used for substrate impurity concentrations up to 5 × 1016cm-3in silicon."
"The ac surface impedance of a homogeneously doped semiconductor is calculated for the dc bias resulting in flat energy bands and assuming thermal equilibrium of the dc carrier distributions. This special case is distinguished by the availability of a complete solution for any bulk lifetime for the small signal linearized case. Two basic modes of ac carrier distributions arise which represent, respectively, a Boltzmann distribution, and (in the limit of long lifetime of minority carriers) the distribution associated with minority carrier injection. The relative intensities of the two modes are determined by the boundary conditions for the electron and hole currents. Two cases are treated in some detail: 1) photoconductivity induced by modulated light at the flat band condition, and 2) electron-hole generation in surface states of the Shockley-Read type by an applied ac field. The results are applied mainly to the case that the signal frequency is low compared with the inverse bulk relaxation time. However, interesting changes in the induced carrier distributions arise if both frequencies become about equal."
"Consideration is given to the phenomenon of saturation of drain current in the insulated-gate field-effect transistor. The effect of limited carrier drift velocity in the transistor channel is evaluated, and a quantitative theory developed to predict behavior in such a region of current flow. It is shown that the \"paradox\" of complete pinch-off at the drain need not necessarily be resolved by postulating a limiting carrier velocity to explain drain-current saturation. It is found that saturation of drain current may be meaningfully ascribed to saturation of carrier velocity only for special cases, such asn-type germanium transistors, and, in addition, this current saturation is only to \"first order.\" Detailed consideration is given to behavior of drain-current saturation, and the physical mechanisms controlling saturation drain resistance and voltage gain are discussed and compared. It is proposed that for high-resistivity substrates, electrostatic drain to channel feedback is dominant, whereas for low-resistivity substrates modulation of the length of the space-charge region at the drain is dominant. Experimental evidence is presented for silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) transistors which indicates that the effect of the channel mobile charge on the field distribution in the drain space-charge region is negligible as compared to several sources of \"fixed\" charge. Based on this it is concluded that carrier mobility within this region does not play a significant role in determining device characteristics. Brief consideration is also given to the \"constant-carrier-mobility\" approximation for behavior in the source region of the channel. It is found that due to fairly strong surface region scattering in silicon units, the effects of field dependent mobility are reduced substantially below that observed in single-crystal bulk material. The constant-mobility approximation is also experimentally confirmed by the excellent \"square-law behavior\" demonstrated by these transistors."
"A detailed analysis is performed yielding source to drain resistance of MOS transistors in the saturation region. The analysis is based on a depletion model of the pinched-off region of the channel. Good agreement is found between theory and experimental results obtained onN-channel silicon MOS transistors (channel length ∼5 µ)."
"Ionization of surface states with increasing temperature is shown to be responsible for the positive temperature coefficient of the drain current often observed inn-type silicon MOS transistors. Competition of this effect with a decrease in mobility for increasing temperature is demonstrated to yield transistors with negative, positive, or zero temperature coefficients. The reflection of surface state ionization with increasing temperature as a linear decrease in gate voltage (for constant drain current) is theoretically explained. Since this linear decrease in gate voltage is a direct function of surface state density, a new method for determining the surface state density near the conduction band is developed. For many transistors gate voltage decreased about 40 millivolts per degree centigrade increase in temperature. This corresponds to a surface state density on the order of 1013per square centimeter per electron volt."
"Noise in MOS diodes arises from different sources: fluctuations in occupation of surface states, shot noise, and leakage noise. Fluctuations in the occupation of surface states produce changes in the surface space-charge distribution which in turn produce currents. Shot noise is produced by fluctuations of the individual drift and diffusion flows toward the surface. Leakage noise is associated with the small flow of current through the oxide. In MOS triodes these three mechanisms give rise to gate noise and thus input noise in the amplifier, but the first one produces an important indirect effect. Fluctuations in the occupation of interface states result in modulation of the channel conductance. At low frequencies this modulation is the dominant effect, giving rise to a noise power spectrum which resembles1/fnoise. At high frequencies, where only thermal noise in the channel and input noise are of importance, MOS triodes are similar to junction field effect devices from the noise point of view."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Since the advent of silicon planar technology, the integrated, monolithic, semiconductor circuit has become a reality. As a result, the use of microelectronic circuits manufactured on a monolithic chip has been rapidly increasing for the past few years. However, the adoption or conversion of standard discrete device semiconductor circuits to the monolithic form has introduced additional parasitic effects into the circuit design. In utilizing the monolithic or single silicon chip for a circuit, it is necessary to isolate circuit elements such as transistors, diodes, resistors, and capacitors from each other. The most commonly used method of obtaining isolation is the utilization of reverse biased junctions. The purpose of this paper will be to enumerate and describe the relative magnitudes of the parasitic effects found in the use of reverse biased diodes as a means of isolating circuit elements. These parasitic effects which are associated with both n-p-n and p-n-p transistor elements can be classified into three general types: dc, ac, and transient. The widely applied n-p-n planar transistor is used as the model element in this paper. The design and process interrelationships which influence and control these parasitic effects will also be discussed. In this analysis, the substrate has been considered as the collector of the parasitic p-n-p transistor. Schematic diagrams of each integrated circuit element are shown in the equivalent monolithic form and in a circuit form with representative parasitics indicated by dashed lines. Analysis will be made of the magnitudes of the dc and ac transient parasitics and some typical values experienced will be indicated. Comparisons of characteristics and parasitics will be drawn between three different processes used in the manufacture of silicon monolithic integrated circuits namely: Process A-Nongold doped, no collector island Process B-Nongold doped, with collector island (buried layer) Process C-Gold doped with collector island (buried layer) The advantages of using gold doping to reduce switching speeds of monolithic diodes connected in a number of ways, is shown in a quantative manner. The reduction in the dc current drain to substrate of the monolithic structure by minimizing the hFEof the p-n-p is described. In this paper the elements of integrated monolithic circuits namely resistors, diodes, and transistors, are discussed with typical values shown which are realizable. The effects of different processing techniques on characteristics are enumerated and some precautions in the design of the integrated circuits are recommended."
"The trapping of electrons and holes at a semiconductor surface by traps located in the oxide adjacent to the semiconductor has been considered. It is shown that the effective capture cross section of an oxide trap viewed by a carrier at the semiconductor surface is reduced by a factor which increases exponentially with the distance the trap is located from the interface. A pseudo-Fermi function in this position variable is developed which gives the probability that a trap will be filled (or emptied) in a measurement time, Tm. The trapping kinetics developed in the first part of the paper are applied to yield the full frequency and bias dependence of an MOS capacitor for an arbitrary spatial and energy trap distribution. Specific examples are given and the problem of voltage hysteresis is dealt with quantitatively. The conclusion is that very little information about the energy distribution and capture cross sections of the oxide traps is obtained from the analysis of MOS-capacitance curves."
"For the use of the MOS capacitance method in the study of surface properties, various approximations and assumptions, of a purely conceptual and of an experimental nature, are usually made. These are not always justified. In this paper the applicability of this capacitance method for surface studies is examined critically. It is shown that this method is limited in its applicability and accuracy, and that, in most cases, it yields only the gross features of the surface states. If there are traps distributed spatially throughout the oxide, only an effective surface state distribution can be found, and this effective distribution may be interpreted ambiguously as due either to traps right at the interface, throughout the oxide, or both. Because the MOS capacitance consists essentially of the oxide capacitance in series with the semiconductor capacitances there is a practical lower limit on the magnitude of the semiconductor capacitance which can be measured. Together with difficulties in interpreting measurements in the inversion layer regime, this leads to a restriction on that portion of the forbidden gap in which states may be investigated. MOS capacitors, produced by thermal oxidation of silicon in either wet or dry oxygen, were examined by this method. It was found that, within experimental accuracy, and within the range of surface potential that can be covered by these measurements, the total number of occupied traps usually varies linearly with surface potential if it is assumed that all the traps are located right at the interface. However, these results can also be explained if it is assumed that the oxide contains a high density of low lying trap sites which are essentially uniformly distributed spatially throughout the oxide. In some specimens a monoenergetic trap level 0.7 eV below the conduction band and located at the interface was found."
"The breakdown voltages of planar n-p diodes in germanium have been found to be consistently lower than those on mesa diodes having the same impurity gradient and junction depth. The measurements were made on circular diodes having a radius of ten mils and junction depths ranging from three-quarter micron to one micron. The lowering of the breakdown voltage in the planar diodes is accounted for by the geometry of the n-p junction. The diffused layer takes the form of an oblate spheroid and the breakdown voltage is determined by the curvature of the junction at the edge of the diode. Since the diameter of the diodes is much greater than the junction depth the oblate spheroid has been approximated by a flat junction with cylindrical edges, and the theoretical values for the breakdown voltage of the cylindrical region have been computed using Miller's ionization data and the solution to Poisson's equation in cylindrical coordinates. The results of the computation show that for shallow junctions ≤ 10 µ the breakdown voltage of the cylindrical region is considerably smaller than Miller's value for body breakdown, and for a junction depth of 0.1 microns the breakdown voltage can be reduced by an order of magnitude. The measured values of breakdown voltage on planar diodes are in good agreement with the theoretical predictions."
"The generation of random noise with uniform avalanche diodes is investigated. A special avalanche noise diode is designed in which the pulse rate is determined by internal field emission and circuit constants, resulting in a small and predictable temperature dependence of the noise output. The spectral noise distribution is calculated for the case of a clipped sawtooth wave with small random fluctuations of the time between successive pulses. The resulting spectral distribution can, to a good approximation, be expressed as a line spectrum with overlapping harmonics. Under certain experimental conditions the harmonics overlap sufficiently that white noise is obtained over a wide frequency range, e.g. from 40 kc/s to 200 kc/s or more. The experimental results are in very good agreement with the theoretical predictions."
"A new phenomenon, the growth of peak velocity of an electron beam originating from a shielded gun, has been investigated. Its behavior with distance, magnetic field, and phasing between beam voltage pulse and heater current zero is presented. This phenomenon bears a general but not a detailed resemblance to the noise growth observed by previous investigators. The noise growth phenomenon has been re-examined in detail on the beam used for peak velocity growth measurements. The single most striking observation is that whereas peak velocity and 3-kmc noise growth take place at magnetic field strength primarily above the Brillouin flow value, 3-kmc signal growth occurs only at magnetic fields below the Brillouin value. A combination of linear axially symmetric surface-wave mode theory and simple intermodulation theory is unable to describe quantitatively the noise growth rate. Consideration of other axially-symmetric modes on near-Brillouin beams, namely body modes and near-synchronous modes, also leads to poor correlation with experiment. It seems likely that the correct explanation involves consideration of one or more of the following: 1) theta-varying dc beam media, 2) theta-varying RF excitation, or 3) a more accurate nonlinear representation of noise."
"Low-noise traveling-wave tubes focused by a combination of a uniform field in the gun region and periodic field (PPM field) over the remainder of the tube usually have a noise figure from 3 to 5 dB higher than those of tubes focused by a uniform magnetic field (PM field). This paper describes how this disadvantage of higher noise has been largely overcome as a result of improvements in magnetic materials and PPM-focusing circuit design. The electrostatic lens effects were reduced by reducing the transverse magnetic field with more uniform magnets and by reducing the period for improved transmission. The magnetic lens effect in the drift region was minimized by extending the length of the uniform gun field so that at least 3 dB of gain occurred in this region. The final tube showed improved electrical and environmental results. A maximum noise figure of 7.9 dB was achieved from 6.4 to 12.0 Gc/s. Noise figures of 6.7 to 6.9 dB were obtained over the 9.2 to 10.2 Gc/s band. The final 5.3 lb low-noise amplifier offers a substantial weight and volume reduction for most low-noise applications and demonstrated compliance with MIL-E-5400F Class 2 equipment specifications."
"The heating effect of a pulsed electron-beam incident onto a solid target is dependent on the beam parameters, on the electron penetration, and on heat conduction effects. The attainable beam current density is limited jointly by the electron-optical brightness condition and by the spherical aberration of the focussing lens. To calculate the temperature rise that exists at the end of the electron pulse, allowance must be made for the two-dimensional Gaussian spread of the beam over the surface as well as for the three-dimensional non-Gaussian spreads introduced by electron penetration and thermal conduction. In this paper expressions are derived for the rms diameters along the three coordinate axes of the temperature-rise distribution that exists at the end of the electron pulse. The optimum condition is determined by maximising the energy introduced into the target while the horizontal rms diameter is held constant. A comparison is made with a related study that has been made of the steady-state problem by Vine and Einstein [2]."
"Kenneth M. Johnson, author of the paper, \"High Speed Photodiode Signal Enhancement at Avalanche Breakdown Voltage,\" which appeared on pages 55-63 of the February, 1965, issue of these Transactions has called the following to the attention of the Editor. Acknowledgment should have been included of the support given by the U.S. Army Electronics Laboratory, under Contract No. DA-36-039-AMC-O3250(E)."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Most of the logic schemes that are amenable to integrated semiconductor construction utilize resistances to couple transistor stages to a power supply and to other stages. It is shown that the coupling functions ideally require nonlinear rather than linear current-voltage characteristics. Tunnel junctions can provide very attractive nonlinear characteristics for coupling purposes, and this is the main theme of the present paper. Performance advantages are investigated, particularly the improvement in delay-power product, or energy required to process a binary digit. Techniques for fabricating low-capacitance tunnel junctions in integrated fashion with silicon bipolar transistor regions are discussed."
"GaAs tunnel diode oscillators are analyzed using a tenth-order power series approximation of the current-voltage characteristics of the diodes. The analysis yields significantly better agreement between measured and calculated power outputs than previous analyses which were based on a cubic approximation of the current-voltage characteristics."
"A derivation is presented for the transconductances of a four-terminal transistor of arbitrary channel doping profile. The derivation takes into account finite barrier potential and is specifically applied to the symmetrical, abrupt-junction, four-terminal, field-effect transistor. Curves are presented showing variations of normalized transconductance with applied gate-source EMF."
"Extensive measurements of electron and hole mobilities in inversion layers on thermally oxidized silicon surfaces were performed using the field effect conductance technique. It was found that both electron and hole mobilities are practically constant and approximately equal to one half of their respective bulk values up to a surface field of about 1.5 × 105volts/cm, corresponding to about 1012electronic charges/cm2induced in the silicon. At higher fields the inversion layer mobilities begin to decrease slightly. The temperature dependence of inversion layer mobilities follows a T-1.5rule at the upper range of the interval -196 to 200°C, indicating a scattering mechanism similar to lattice scattering. This observation is further supported by the lack of a significant effect of an order-of-magnitude variation in the bulk impurity concentration (1015- 1016cm3) on the inversion layer mobilities. No significant effect of structural and geometrical parameters (such as channel length and shape, oxide type and thickness, and surface charge density) was found on the inversion layer mobilities."
"An analytical comparison of the radiation tolerance of conventional silicon field effect transistors and of silicon bipolar transistors has been performed. The channel or base thickness has been used as the respective critical variable, since it measures the degree of difficulty of device fabrication. For field effect transistors, the pinch-off voltage has been used as a free parameter. Based on recent lifetime degradation data for bipolar transistors and on carrier removal data for material of variable resistivity, it is shown that field effect transistors are not inherently more radiation tolerant than bipolar transistors. Only field effect transistors with pinch-off voltages well in excess of 10 volts appear superior to bipolar transistors."
"General power theorems for rotational electron beams and some moving plasmas are derived by using three sets of variables: Clebsch variables, Lin's variables, and polarization variables. In each case, the most general power theorem, with unspecified linear operators, is given and for the polarization-variable case this is specialized to some cases of interest. Unfortunately, the physical interpretation of the variables used is not always clear, and the physically unmeasurable variables may not always behave as measurable ones would, so that the theorems are of limited usefulness."
"The classical static analysis of the infinite planar diode has been extended to include the effects of finite transverse beam size. Simple expressions have been found for the increase in maximum stable current density over that of an infinite stream for finite cylindrical and strip streams flowing between plates of infinite diodes. The results are also given in terms of stream perveance. The effect of a nonuniform distribution of current across the stream is shown to be relatively small. Experimental values of maximum stable current agree with those obtained from the analysis. A further extension of the static analysis has been made to include the effects of additional conducting plane boundaries parallel to the stream motion. For length-to-width ratios L/D less than 0.25 the tube is adequately described by the results for the infinite planar diode and for L/D greater than 4, the infinitely-long drift tube theory suffices. At intermediate values of L/D, the maximum amount of current that can be stably passed through the tube is greater than that predicted by either asymptotic theory."
"The behavior of planar triodes with close grid-to-cathode spacings is investigated theoretically and experimentally. Special attention is paid to island formation dimensional variation initial electron velocity and cathode coating resistance. A formula is derived for the optimum grid-to-cathode spacing which yields maximum transconductance, maximum power gain-band product and minimum noise figure."
"The \"beam-blowup\" phenomenon associated with traveling-wave linear electron accelerators is examined. An equation describing the interaction between the electron beam and the TM11backward-wave mode is developed, and solutions of the equation presented. Computed blowup times as a function of beam current are compared, and show good agreement, with experimental results obtained elsewhere. Possible methods for suppression of blowup are advanced."
"The backward-wave converter is a hybrid device that combines the essential elements of an electronically swept receiver front end in a single vacuum envelope. The device directly converts an RF signal to an IF signal with the mixing processes taking place in an electron beam. The tuning is completely electronic, and octave frequency coverage has been achieved. Compared to the conventional crystal mixer system the device provides a number of advantages such as 1) elimination of crystal burnout, 2) isolation of local oscillator power from the antenna, 3) preselection and 4) voltage tunability at high rates of speed over a large frequency range. A theoretical analysis that compares satisfactorily with experimental data has been developed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Measurements on 4-terminal double-diffused field-effect transistors show considerable dissimilarity in the control characteristics of each gate, which can only be explained on the basis of a nonuniform channel doping. By using a linear approximation to the actual form of the channel doping, a theory of these devices in the pinchoff region is developed and compared with experimental observations. For the devices used, the agreement is extremely good in that it accurately predicts the ratios of the two transconductances and their variation with voltage. It is observed that the transconductance of the more heavily doped gate (gate 1) exhibits a nearly linear variation with voltage applied to the other gate and that the linearity is maintained over a wide range of gate 1 voltages. Such a property could be usefully exploited in automatic gain control systems."
"The natural modes of oscillation of an electron beam backward-wave oscillator are determined when the dc beam current exceeds the start oscillation value. The initial time-rate of buildup of these oscillations and the space variations of the beam and circuit excitations before nonlinearities set in are given."
"A first-order perturbation analysis of the dc effects of several important tolerances in conical flow Pierce guns is presented for the case in which the gun is part of a solenoid focused system used to produce a smooth Brillouin beam. In this, the first of two parts, the flow up to the anode of the gun is analyzed. The data presented permit calculation of the magnitude of the perturbations at the anode due to various manufacturing errors. These errors are: changes in cathode-anode spacing, changes in cathode curvature, tilt, and transverse displacement of the cathode-focus electrode assembly. The theory does not permit the analysis of cathode to focus electrode tolerances. The perturbations at the anode serve as boundary conditions for the flow beyond the gun which is calculated in the companion paper. A comparison of the magnitude of effects at the anode calculated by the theory and obtained from an experimental study shows that reasonably good agreement exists between theory and experiment."
"The first-order perturbations to a beam initially in nonrippling Brillouin flow, which results from several common manufacturing errors in conical flow Pierce guns, are calculated. The manufacturing errors are changes in cathode-anode spacing, changes in cathode curvature, tilt, and transverse displacement of the cathode-focus electrode assembly, and tilt and transverse misalignment of the whole gun to the magnetic field. Errors in cathode-to-focus electrode spacing are not discussed. The tolerances which destroy the rotational symmetry of the gun are shown to cause the smooth beam to perform a helical motion; the tolerances which preserve the symmetry are shown to produce an undulating beam. Using the results of Part I of this paper [1], the magnitudes of individual gun tolerances are related to the effects they produce in the magnetic field. A method of setting limits to the individual gun tolerances is presented and illustrated by calculating tolerances for a gun used in an X-band traveling-wave tube. The calculated tolerances are found to have values which may readily be achieved by careful engineering."
"A generalized set of equations for evaluating transformation of fluctuations from one plane to another plane along the beam is derived by using the perturbation method. These equations are derived for the case of a magnetron injection gun and can be reduced to Llewellyn-Peterson and Van Duzer equations for O-type and M-type (Kino gun) configurations by appropriate substitution for the value of the angle θ (the angle between the cathode plane and the direction of the magnetic field). The noise transport coefficients for the case of a magnetron injection gun are evaluated both for temperature-limited and space-charge-limited cases and for several values of the perturbation frequency and angle θ. For the space-charge-limited case, both short and long Kino guns are considered. It is found that the values of the various noise transport coefficients which contribute toward noise at the output are reduced as the value of angle θ is increased. The results given in this paper indicate qualitatively that the noise content in a device using a magnetron injection gun is reduced as the value of θ is increased; this is in agreement with the previous results. For a quantitative evaluation of noise output, it is necessary to take into account the beam current and the various fluctuations simultaneously."
"A computer program for the solution of Poisson's equation in two dimensions with mixed boundary conditions has been used to solve for electron trajectories in beam pentodes with circularly cylindrical cathode contours and round wire grids in the general configuration of many Pierce guns in parallel. Such designs can have nearly uniform cathode current density over the entire cathode surface and zero grid interception under all conditions of interest, including positive grid conditions. Operation with the plate voltage as low as 5 per cent of the screen grid voltage provides satisfactory secondary electron retention in a typical design for which complete transfer characteristics are computed."
"The multiple-beam design philosophy and its application to the traveling-wave klystron (TWK) are described. The TWK was conceived as a superpower device capable of producing broadband power levels many times greater than can be achieved with a single-beam tube. The principles of operation of the device are outlined, as well as the manner in which these have been incorporated in a practical demonstration atSband, in which power levels in excess of 5.0 MW with 16 per cent bandwidth and 23 dB high-level gain were obtained."
"This paper discusses the investigation and solution of the so-called \"solder ball\" problem which has plagued the transistor industry for years. Upon investigating silicon alloy transistors which use tin for electrodes, it was discovered that solder balls (which can cause internal short circuiting of the device) are not necessarily associated with manufacturing procedures as previously believed but are produced by the devices themselves because of the material used in construction. Electrical stresses or low temperatures produce balls in units which were initially free of any foreign matter. This is due to the low-melting-temperature tin alloy used in the construction of the transistor (or other semiconductor). Thus, devices may have balls when put in use and cause equipment failure later. The devices appear good under all measurement; however, when the devices are in use, a mechanical short circuit may shake a ball loose, short circuiting the transistor and making the circuit inoperable."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The noise suppression in space charge limited field emitter cathodes is calculated, and it is shown that the noise can be more strongly space charge suppressed than in thermionic cathodes. The velocity fluctuation noise of the field emitter cathode is also calculated under arbitrary space charge conditions. The results are used to evaluate the noise figure of traveling wave tubes. Low noise figures are possible if the noise suppression of the space charge limited field emitter remains intact at microwave frequencies."
"This paper extends previous work on the low-frequency operation of four-terminal field-effect transistors (FTFET's) by developing a model for the transient as well as the low-frequency performance of a symmetrical device, operating in the region beyond pinch-off. The model, which represents the FTFET in any of its possible modes of operation, is derived systematically from consideration of the physical makeup of the device. As a consequence, the element values are determined as explicit functions of the physical makeup and the bias voltages at the two gates; alternatively, they can be determined from a set of terminal measurements. In addition, in conjunction with the development of the model, expressions are derived for the functional dependence on gate biases of the gate-source capacitances present in any of the various modes of operation. Experimental results for the step-function response of the device are in good agreement with theory for broad ranges of source and load terminations. Good correlation has also been obtained for the functional dependence of the gate-source capacitances."
"The space charge forces tending to expand an ion beam of elliptical cross section are found using Green's function. It is assumed that the charge density is constant over any beam cross section. These space charge forces are then included in the equations governing the trajectory of the beam envelope in the two halves of a strong-focusing quadrupole lens and also in the drift space separating them. Next it is shown that with proper injection the beam will maintain its elliptical cross section so the trajectories of the major and minor axes of the beam constitute a complete description of the envelope. From these equations, one finds that the force of space charge remains finite even when the minor axis of the beam becomes zero. Thus, beam cross-over is possible for beams of elliptical cross section, but not for those of circular cross section. Sample calculations for the axis trajectories are included for varioua ratios of focusing to defocusing forces."
"The Karp structure, anti-Karp structure, and ridge-loaded stub-supported meander line have been analyzed by the Fletcher method and curves of dispersion and interaction impedance are given which are sufficiently comprehensive for most design purposes. The results of measurements on an anti-Karp structure and a ridge-loaded stub-supported meander line are given for comparison with the analysis. The relative merits of the three structures for both forward and backward wave interaction at medium and low voltages are discussed in some detail, and it is concluded that the use of a structure which propagates in the absence of a ridge permits the achievement of greater bandwidth in low voltage BWO's and gives greater design flexibility. It is also shown that the structures may, without significantly altering their circuit properties, be deformed into shapes suitable for use with annular or solid circular beams."
"The chief aim of this paper is to show that continuous mm waves of comparatively high intensity can be successfully produced with the magnetrons of a somewhat novel feature, called \"waveguide-magnetrons.\" The waveguide-magnetrons are very simple in construction, and are also very stable in performance, as will be shown. Among the excellent performances of the waveguide-magnetrons, some were capable of generating the output power of 75 mW at the wavelength of 3.4 mm, and others 5 mW at 2.65 mm."
"A digital computer program written in the IBM 7090 FORTRAN programming system is described and then employed in the analysis of several axially symmetric electron guns. The digital program employs relaxation techniques while alternately computing electric fields and trajectories. One cycle through the program consists of three parts. 1) Calculation of the voltages within the electron gun by solving Poisson's equation, in difference form, on a matrix containing a maximum of 10 000 points on which electrode potentials are laid out. 2) Calculations of new current densities along the cathode and the setting up of new trajectory starting points along the cathode to simulate these current densities. 3) Calculations of trajectories, including magnetic fields and relativistic effects if desired, and comparison of the new beam with the previous one. Thermal effects and direct particle-particle interaction effects are ignored although space-charge effects, introduced through the field calculations, tend to prevent excessive or usual trajectory crossings. Execution time for the entire program is between 4 and 12 minutes, although for most guns 5 to 7 minutes is usually sufficient. Results produced by the program are presented and compared with experimental and analytical results."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The low-to-moderate RF conversion efficiencies characteristic of kinetic energy conversion devices may be enhanced by appropriately tapering the RF circuit phase velocity. The nonlinear interaction equations have been solved in closed form for an HKB (hard-kernel-bunch) model to obtain an optimum taper form. Several velocity taper forms have been investigated in experimental amplifiers and the power output, gain, efficiency, and phase shift characteristics of these amplifiers are discussed in detail. Conversion efficiencies up to 50 percent and near constant output power for a 20-dB variation in RF drive power have been realized in near optimally tapered circuit amplifiers. Further improvements realized include operation at a single voltage for maximum gain and power output and a nearly linear phase shift characteristic for a ±10 percent voltage modulation."
"The steady, zero-temperature, space-charge flow problem has a unique solution if formulated in the differential equation form. However, if the differential equations are approximated by a difference equation formulation, it is shown that the solution is no longer unique. The effect is demonstrated by the example of the Langmuir planar diode. It is proved theoretically for the planar diode, and demonstrated numerically for a two-dimensional example, that the ambiguity in the perveance of a gun due to this effect is of orderh/d; herehis the mesh size of the difference mesh, anddis the mean length of the particle trajectories."
"Excessive patchiness of the emission from the oxide-coated cathodes used in cathode-ray tubes, camera tubes and traveling-wave tubes can have adverse effects on their performance or useful life. There is a simple technique for forming an electron image of a CRT cathode directly on the view screen. This technique, which has been known for more than 30 years, may be used to show patchiness when it exists, but it has not been possible in the past to image the cathode of a camera tube because of the lack of a built-in display mechanism (phosphor-coated view screen) and because of the peculiar geometry of the electron guns. A technique has now been devised for displaying the electron images of vidicon cathodes. This technique comprises) 1) priming the optical image-sensing surface with uniform light, 2) projecting a \"pinhole snapshot\" electron image of the cathode on the image-sensing surface with an unscanned beam and storing it there, and 3) reading out the stored image with the normal scanning beam and displaying it on a CRT monitor. Photographs of electron images of vidicon cathodes obtained in this manner are shown in this paper."
"The series resistance of a high-quality varactor diode is primarily determined by the resistance of the semiconductor material close to the junction. With increasing reverse bias, the width of the space-charge region becomes greater, and the series resistance decreases. Theoretical models of graded and step junctions have been assumed, and calculations have been made of the series resistance as a function of bias. Epitaxial silicon diodes have been measured for series resistance as a function of bias by using the transmission loss method at 6 to 12 Gc/s, with the diode mounted across a reduced-height waveguide. The variation of series resistance with bias agrees well with the theoretical calculations. By measuring of the 3-dB bandwidth of the series resonance of the diode mounted in the reduced-height waveguide, the junction capacitance and the effective series inductance of the package also can be determined. Because the width of the space-charge region must vary with applied voltage in order to obtain the varactor characteristic, the diode cannot have zero-series resistance at zero-volt bias. The minimum possible series resistance is a function of the breakdown voltage and increases with increasing breakdown voltage. Calculations of the maximum possible cutoff frequency as a function of the diode breakdown voltage are presented for both graded and step junction silicon varactors. A plot of series resistance vs. reverse bias can be used to determine the impurity concentration profile in the epitaxial film. The impurity concentration profile can also be determined by measuring the capacitance vs. reverse bias, a technique which has been in use for some time. However the former method appears to be more accurate in that it is independent of junction area."
"It has been found that the parameters of present high performanceN/Psilicon solar cells are such that even small reductions in the thickness of the cells result in noticeable decreases of the short-circuit current due to lower collection efficiency at long wavelengths. Theoretical and experimental results of an investigation into the change of short-circuit current as function of thickness are discussed. This effect is studied in dependence on the spectral distribution of the irradiating light for three commonly used types of light source as well as on the minority carrier lifetime and mobility in the base region of the solar cell. It is noteworthy that the differences in short-circuit current are eliminated by moderate damage due to nuclear particle radiation."
"It is well known that the form of the dependence upon bias voltage of the incremental space-charge layer capacitance of an asymmetrically-dopedp-njunction depends (in a rather complicated way) upon the concentration profile of the impurity charge on the high-resistivity side. It is shown in this paper that this impurity profile is related, in a very simple way, to the dependence of the incremental space-charge layer elastance upon the total depletion charge in either half of the dipole layer. The incremental-elastance vs. charge relationship has been employed in a simple pulsed-charge automatic measurement system which yields the impurity profile directly, as the slope of anx-yrecording. The system has advantages for rapid evaluation of impurity distributions in the base regions of transistors. These same advantages apply for the high-resistivity sides of asymmetrically doped diodes, under circumstances in which the quick automatic plotting feature is needed, very high accuracy is not required, and the reverse saturation current of the junction is small."
"For wide-angle deflection (±25°) of microspot tubes (spot size-8 microns), dynamic correction of focal length (DCF) alone is no longer capable of conserving resolution. It is found, however, that complete recovery of ultra-high resolution (3000 lines per inch) is practical by adding dynamic correction of astigmatism (DCA) to DCF. The laws of error distribution on the tube face are found to be quadratic functions of position coordinatesxandy. Dynamic correction thus requires an ideal product generator that obeys the associative law of multiplication out to large amplitudes. A special beam-deflection type of computer tube has been developed. It operates on the principle of deflecting a square beam across a quadrantal target. An analog computer using three of these \"roving-square tubes\" (RST's) generates all three dynamic corrections as required by DCF and DCA. Photographs of deflected television microimages show the effectiveness of this analog computer in presenting approximately 9000 spot diameters, or 80 million dots, within a 3-inch square."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theory is given of the noise in cathodoluminescence light and the results are compared with experiments on Sylvania 5BNP16 and RCA5WP11 cathode-ray tubes. The measurements indicate that the noise in cathodoluminescence is mainly caused by the shot noise of the primary beam. The noise intensity is proportional to the magnitude of the voltage applied to the tube for voltages above 10 kV. The spectral distribution of the noise corresponds to the square of the frequency response of the cathode-ray tube screen as expected theoretically. The application to light amplifiers is discussed."
"The high reflectivity of the polished silicon surface of the newer N+/P silicon solar cells has emphasized the need for properly designed antireflection coatings to obtain improved solar cell performance. The problem is complicated by the facts that solar cells are generally tested in air, but are for their final application covered with a glass or quartz slide which is adhesive-bonded to the cell surface, and further, that solar cells operating in a nuclear particle radiation environment change their spectral response and are frequently optimized for performance at the end of design-life. Experiments have been performed to explore the antireflection characteristics of thin films of silicon monoxide which have been evaporated on the solar cell surface. The effect of the antireflection coating thickness on cell response as a function of wavelength has been determined and the improvement in cell short circuit current for Air Mass Zero space sunlight evaluated. Included in this study was the evaluation of the antireflection characteristics after the application of a coverglass with adhesive over the antireflection coating. For comparison, coverglasses were also applied to bare cells with no antireflection coating present. In all cases the various coating comparisons were based on the cell short-circuit current performance in Air Mass Zero sunlight."
"A new method of integrating silicon devices is discussed. Preliminary results of work are reported and a recommendation for continued development is given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A distributed model for a junction transistor has been analyzed to include both dc and ac biasing effects in the active base region, with particular emphasis on a small-geometry diffused base planar transistor. For such devices with extremely narrow base width, dc biasing effects cannot be neglected. At high frequencies, the response of these devices is greatly modified by ac biasing effects which are accentuated by the significant dc biasing at large emitter current levels. Two-dimensional current flow under these biasing conditions was studied with a distributed model of the active base region. From such a model, the expressions for emitter-base diode characteristic, small-signal and large-signal base resistance, and complex base impedance valid for high frequencies have been deduced in terms of physical parameters of the devices like the geometry, base resistivity, etc. This equivalent base impedance and an ideal diode with its diffusion and emitter-base transition capacitance constitute the lumped model of the emitter-base region. For any particular frequency, the base impedance can be represented exactly by a parallel RC network. The distributed model can also predict the pulse response of the device more accurately than a lumped model and show the sensitivity of the transient response to the physical parameters mentioned above. Experimental verifications of the theoretical expressions are found to be satisfactory, and limitations of the earlier works are pointed out in regard to present devices."
"The external quantum efficiency of a forward-biased GaAs p-n junction device selected for high efficiency measures 40.5, 32, and 7.3 percent at 20, 77, and 295°K, respectively. The optical exit path is through bulk material doped to a 1017donors/cm2level. The infrared emission is measured directly with a silicon solar cell. The effective transmissivity of the GaAs bulk device material is measured to be 42 and 8.3 percent at 77 and 295°K, respectively. The corresponding values for the internal quantum efficiency are 76 and 88 percent. The primary optical rise time measured for high level current pulsing conditions is 0.6 and 1.6 ns at 77 and 295°K, respectively."
"Coupled-mode theory is employed to describe space-charge wave propagation on an electron beam drifting in a non-uniform region. The nonuniformity may arise in several ways. These include a potential variation, a beam-radius variation, or a drift-region-radius variation. To demonstrate the utility of this method of description, closed-form solutions are obtained for several particular variations of beam impedance and explicit expressions for the RF velocity and current modulations on the beam are obtained. The closed-form solutions are useful in the design of space-charge wave transformers for low-noise gun design, phototube demodulators and space-charge-wave amplification schemes."
"A theoretical analysis of the interaction of an electron beam with a coupled-cavity structure near a band-edge frequency is presented. The analysis utilizes the resonant modes of the individual cavities in a way such that the details of the electronic interaction within each distinct cavity are identical to those of the monotron theory, but the coupling between adjacent cavities is taken into account via the circuit equations. There arenequations obtained forncavities, and an algebraic rather than a characteristic wave type of approach is chosen for their solution. The theory is applied to finding the starting conditions for band-edge oscillations in an untapered structure. The results are verified experimentally. The theory also indicates that it is probably valid to use the simple monotron theory to find the minimum start-oscillation length or current."
"In current technology, the edge definition that can be achieved by the photoresist process is approximately ten times sharper than the registration accuracy that can be maintained over a workpiece of any reasonable size. A description is presented of an attempt to improve registration through feedback from the workpiece itself; the servo signal is generated by the photoresist-exposing radiation, a submicron-diameter electron beam. Using this technique, the gate electrode of a field-effect transistor (FET) has been automatically positioned relative to the channel."
"A method is proposed for the analog simulation of the magnetic field produced by a solenoid with an arbitrary axially symmetric shape, having magnetic pole pieces also with arbitrary axially symmetric shapes. The ordinary resistance network analog for solving axially symmetric Poisson's problems is used in this method. The simulated magnetic field configurations for some specific cases are compared with theoretical ones. The results obtained by this method can be used directly as the input data for an automatic electron-trajectory tracing scheme in which a resistance network analog is used in conjunction with an electronic computer."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Attention has been called to the incorrect Committee listing in the \"IEEE Standard Test Procedure for Semiconductor Diodes,\" which appeared on pages 398-402 of the August, 1964, issue of these Transactions. The second paragraph of the 'ACKNOWLEDGMENT' should read as follows. \"This publication was prepared by the IEEE Task Group 28.4.10 composed of: B. Jacobs, Chairman; A. Bakanowski; J. Gillette; D.R. Fewer; E.F. Platz; and the jointly functioning ....\""
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An especially designed epitaxial, metal-oxide-semiconductor transistor has been employed in a novel mode of operation in which the inherent characteristics of the device provide a high-pass filter-type response with insertion gain in the pass band. The low-frequency cutoff property is due to a nonequilibrium phenomenon controlled by the minority carrier generation rate in the channel. The cutoff frequency of this filter is tunable with the drain bias voltage in an exponential manner over a wide range; secondary ionization plays a dominant role in this mode of operation. The experimental results obtained with the N-channel silicon devices are presented and discussed in terms of the physical model of the device."
"A deposited metal-insulator-piezoelectric-semiconductor (MIPS) transistor can be used as an electromechanical transducer, because of the sensitivity of the power-gain mechanism in a surface field-effect device to fixed charge in the channel. Close correspondence has been obtained between the theory of this effect and experimental observations on deposited CdS MIPS devices. The transducer action described in this paper is quite different from that employed in other piezoelectric pressure transducers, and has beneficial characteristics such as high sensitivity and flat gain to high frequencies. Comparisons with conventional transducers are made, and design considerations of the MIPS transducer are discussed."
"A linear two-port network model of the intrinsic transistor, which accounts for the nonlinear effects at the emitter-base junction, is developed in this paper. From this model nonlinear distortions are calculated and their variations with frequency and operating point are accounted for. With extrinsic parameters incorporated into this model it is shown how third-order distortion cancellation results from their effect. Two-signal injection, which permits the maximum conversion gain for the transistor as a mixer to be developed along with figures of merit for harmonic distortions, cross modulation, and intermodulation, is considered."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The small signal properties of field effect devices are treated analytically. The analysis is based upon an active, distributed transmission line analogy to the conductive channel of field effect devices. Within the limitations of the gradual channel approximation, a general analysis is presented which is applicable to both junction and MOS field effect devices. Equivalent circuits are obtained which describe field effect device characteristics in the region below saturation as well as in the current saturation region. Effects of parasitic elements on the terminal y parameters in practical devices are considered. Specific device models are considered for junction devices and MOS devices and the more important equivalent circuit parameters are evaluated in terms of the dc terminal voltages."
"The mechanism by which very large channel currents can result in P+N junctions or in PNP transistors having annular P+diffused channel-stop regions was studied in detail using experimental structures whose oxides were intentionally contaminated with sodium ions. It is shown that the onset of channel current flow corresponds quantitatively to the formation of an inversion layer over the P+region. Possible mechanisms by which carriers can be supplied to the inversion layer, thereby resulting in a channel current, are considered. It is demonstrated that the mechanism involves the breakdown of the field-induced junction formed between the inversion layer and the underlying P+region. The breakdown characteristics of this field-induced junction are considered experimentally in detail. It is shown that breakdown can proceed through either a tunneling or an avalanche mechanism depending on the surface concentration of the P+region, and that the breakdown characteristics of field-induced junctions are much like those of narrow alloyed silicon junctions studied earlier by Chynoweth et al."
"This paper presents a brief review of charge control equations for base step current drive transistor switching in the grounded emitter configuration. On the basis of these equations, transient switching waveforms are calculated by a simple piecewise analysis procedure. A switching locus on the ωTvs. ICcurve for the determination of the transient waveforms is introduced. A comparison of experimental and theoretical rise time waveforms demonstrates good correlation between theory and experiment."
"Cadmium selenide (CdSe) switches have been devised to control the luminous emittance of electroluminescent cells in a solid-state display. The technique employed makes use of the hysteresis in CdSe to change the resistance of the material to some low value when a switching voltage is applied. In its low-resistance state, the CdSe switch can energize an electroluminescent cell connected in series with it. By wiring the cells in rows and the switches in columns, a display panel results in which each cell-switch combination can be individually addressed by energizing the appropriate row and column. This paper describes the principles of operation and outlines the construction techniques for this display. Performance characteristics of a 100-unit display panel are discussed. This panel, with 20 lines per inch resolution, has been operated with addressing pulses of 25 microseconds duration, providing an output brightness of 20 footlamberts. The construction process is adaptable to mass production, resulting ultimately in low cost. The display has memory thus allowing random access, and operates on very little power. Demonstration of this display represents a significant advancement in the state of the art. This small display possesses the characteristics necessary for development of practical large-area displays."
"A new method for rapidly constructing photographic masks which are required in the fabrication of microelectronic circuits is described. The method employs an optical projection technique to obtain a precisely defined pencil of light which is used for \"writing\" on a high resolution photographic plate. The photomask geometry is exposed in a raster-like format by accurate servo-controlled translation of the high resolution plate with respect to the projected light beam and by relay controlled automatic shuttering employed in conjunction with the operation of the servosystem. The automatic projection method provides an inherent optical reduction factor of 2 to 22 times and has permitted one-step fabrication of master photomasks having image characteristic tolerances and definitions as follows: vertical positional of ±50.0 microns, horizontal positional of ±10.0 microns, vertical edge of less than 2.5 microns, and horizontal edge of less than 25.0 microns. Writing speeds of 2.0 to 80.0 mils per second were used to produce line widths from 6.0 to 100.0 microns."
"A light-activated low-level switch (LAS) has been developed for multiplexing applications. The switch consists of an electroluminescent GaAs p-n diode and a double-emitter silicon transistor. (Both NPN and PNP units have been made.) The two, light emitter and detector, are coupled optically. The switch is a substantial improvement over existing switching devices used in multiplexers. A general design theory based on the Ebers & Moll [1] low-level transistor model is given, with special emphasis on breakdown voltage, ON impedance, offset voltage, and switching speed. It is shown how the design considerations lead to a specific geometry for the detector. Results of extensive testing are reported."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Summary form only given, as follows. In semiconductors which have a current - voltage characteristic containing a differential negative resistance region, oscillations are developed at an appropriate bias voltage. The oscillations are due to high field domains traversing the sample. In this paper we discuss briefly some mechanisms which can give rise to negative-resistance effects, and treat in detail the transferred electron effect. Particular reference is made to recent calculations on GaAs, InP and CdTe. A description is given of the field distribution within a domain and of domain motion along a sample. The transferred electron oscillator is analysed as a source of microwave power, and an indication given of the optimum properties required from the semiconductor. Experimental results, mainly relating to the generation of X-band and K-band radiation from epitaxial samples, are included."
"The state of the art on avalanche transit time diodes is reviewed. Experimental results are reported on two different diode structures; (1) A simple PN junction and, (2) A hyperabrupt junction \"Read\" structure, both of which employ the avalanche transit time mechanisms originally proposed by Read. These results are compared with the theoretical predictions of Read and Misawa. Preliminary circuit results to date include 19 mw of CW power at 5 Gc with 1.4% efficiency from a Read structure, and 13 mw of CW 10.5 Gc power with 0.5% efficiency from a simple PN junction. PN junction amplifier operation at 11.5 Gc has produced 20 db of gain with 30 mc bandwidth. Noise figures in the 50 to 60 db range were obtained."
"The main features of the Gunn effect can be accounted for by the transferred electron model of Ridley and Watkins, which predicts a bulk differential negative resistance and subsequent domain formation if electrons can be transferred sufficiently rapidly from the lowest conduction band minimum to lower-mobility subsidiary minima. Experimental results for n-GaAs in verification of this model are presented. In the longer samples the current-time Waveform consists of sharp spikes separated by flat Valleys, as expected from the motion of domains. The voltage across the domains is found to scale with sample length as predicted; the value of the electric field inside the domain is estimated to be\\geq 60,000V/cm, while the field outside is about 1500 V/cm. Gunn effect oscillations have also been observed in n-CdTe; resistance vs hydrostatic pressure experiments: show that the transferred electron model is a reasonable explanation for this material as well. Finally, it will be shown that the absence of an instability in n-InSb and n-InAs is also consistent with the model. However, the occurrence of stable amplification and some of the properties of the oscillators near threshold seem difficult to understand in terms of a bulk differential negative resistance model. A possible explanation based on transferred electron effects in the positive resistance region will be discussed."
"We have observed microwave oscillations in reverse biased silicon planar epitaxial diodes. The p-i-n structure was not unlike that suggested by Read, but the diodes were operated well beyond breakdown in the manner described by Johnston et al. The oscillation was continuous in the range .8 to 3.5 Gc and pulsed operation was used up to 28 Gc. The lindwidth at L band was less than 60 kc. The continuous power was 1 mW and relatively independent of frequency. The efficiency was .15%. The peak power under pulsed operation was 15 mW."
"Johnston, DeLoach, and Cohen have recently reported on the generation of microwave energy from reverse biased p-n junctions which were driven into the avalanche region. The present paper describes the performance obtained from diffused and epitaxial diffused silicon and epitaxial diffused gallium arsenide diodes designed primarily for parametric amplifier, harmonic generator and microwave limiter applications. Oscillations have been obtained over the range from 6 - 50 Gc, some of which seem to be parametrically related as first noted by DeLoach. Pulse power outputs in the several milliwatt range have been obtained with a wide variety of commercial varactors."
"Room Temperature microwave measurements have been made using an epitaxial silicon p n n + avalanche diode in continuous operation. The diode is believed to have a somewhat distributed avalanche throughout the depletion layer as contrasted to the Read model in which the avalanche is confined to a narrow zone within the depletion layer. The difference between the models, for the small signal case, appears to be distinguishable from the diode's microwave impedance characteristics."
"This paper will present the latest developments in pulsed oscillators which utilize the Gunn effect in gallium arsenide for the generation of microwave power. General engineering design criteria are being developed relating power, frequency, impedance level, device and circuit efficency, circuit and voltage tuning, and thermal parameters. It will be shown that ultimate pulsed powers should be proportional to (frequency)-2, as in tubes. Average powers should be more nearly constant from L to X-band. Power capability depends critically on properties of the gallium arsenide material. Examples will be given using currently available material, and also assuming the existence of \"perfect\" GaAs. Pulsed oscillators will be described which deliver over 100 watts at L-band. The best performance to date has been 190 watts at 1100 mc., using two samples in parallel. Techniques for achieving this type of operation will be described."
"Experimental and theoretical work with avalanche transit time oscillators will be presented. Previously it was shown that diodes possessing high field regions in which avalanche occurs uniformly along the direction of current flow show a negative resistance. Experimental attempts have been made to construct such a model. Since electrons have larger ionization rates than holes in silicon, thep^{+}\\nu n^{+}structure gives a more uniform distribution of avalanche than does then^{+}\\pi p^{+}structure. Thus units have been made by acceptor diffusion into anntype epitaxial film. A typical structure which was analyzed numerically shows behavior quite similar to the idealized model. Microwave oscillations have been observed in almost all slices. Slices with similar impurity distribution often given quite different characteristics. This is believed to have to do with the uniformity of current flow. Units made from a \"good\" wafer show similar characteristics from unit to unit. One unit oscillated at 8.2 Gc with 7.7 mw output and an efficiency of 0.7%. Microwave reflection measurements, spectrum width of oscillations, low frequency noise measurements, and light emission are correlated with device parameters and fabrication methods. The microwave characteristics are compared with the analysis."
"The evolution in time of hole and electron concentrations is calculated for single and double diffused diodes that are biased into breakdown. Results of such calculations allow a study of efficiency and power output of avalanche oscillators as a function of doping profile, bias, and load conditions. A short movie showing the time evolution of hole and electron concentrations in a representative diode structure will be shown. Given the doping profile and hole and electron concentrations at a particular time, the electric field can be calculated from Poisson's equation. Carrier concentration gradients and electric field yield particle currents. From particle currents and electric field the carrier generation rate due to impact ionization is obtained. Generation and recombination at Shockley-Read recombination centers is calculated from the carrier concentrations. Net carrier generation rate and divergence of particle currents allow the time derivative of the carrier concentrations, and thus the carrier concentrations a short time later, to be computed, and so on. Electric-field and doping dependence of carrier mobilities are incorporated in the calculations."
"The plate current, transconductance, gain-bandwidth products, and power output capabilities of small planar triodes have been increased by nearly tenfold over that obtained from present day tubes of comparable size and weight. In the new experimental tubes, the cathode can supply a cw current density of 2 amps/cm2. A closely spaced, rigidly supported grid structure can provide a transconductance of 0.75 mho. The output capacitance is low enough to render a gain-bandwidth product of 16 Gc at 1.3 Gc. In this frequency range, the cw power output capability is 1 KW and the pulsed power output capability in a 10% bandwidth circuit is 5 KW."
"Experimental results are presented demonstrating a substantial improvement in output resonator bandwidth of an extended interaction klystron (EIK) by utilization of two overlapping modes. The EIK output resonator -3 db bandwidth was greater than 6% at the 170 Kw level at low S-band. The output circuit consists of a 4 gap π mode resonator with the adjacent3\\pi/4mode located within the response of the π mode. Efficient interaction was obtained not only in the π mode, but also in the transition region between the two modes. A qualitative discussion of the operation of an EIK in the mode transition region is given."
"The traveling wave tetrode is a unique device which can provide multi decade bandwidths in the VHF-UHF frequency range. The device consists basically of two isolated transmission lines which are coupled by the transverse electron beam. The beam is rf modulated by the signal on the input line and collected on the output line. The two lines are designed to have equal phase velocity at a given frequency in the operating band so that the rf currents will continue to add up in the direction of propagation. Two basic types of device have been developed. The first device which utilizes uniform input and output transmission lines produces the maximum gain - bandwidth product. Using this approach a bandwidth from 6 to 600 mc has been demonstrated at the 100 watt output level and 15 db gain (17% eff.). In the second type of device the impedance of the output line is tapered after a Short buildup section to maintain a constant rf voltage swing. This approach produces a device with optimum efficiency. An efficiency in excess of 40% has been demonstrated. Power output capability is in the 500-700 watt range with a bandwidth from 6 to 300 mc. The gain is 13 db. Both devices use the same vacuum envelope (4\" \\times 5\" \\times 7\") and weigh 7 1/2 lbs. Because of the high efficiency, extreme bandwidth, and small size and weight, this approach offers tremendous advantage over beam type devices for applications in VHF-UHF frequency range."
"It has often been pointed out in the literature that transverse wave electron beam amplifiers can make use of noise reduction methods not applicable to longitudinal space charge wave tubes. In the middle 1950's electrostatically focused traveling wave tubes based on this principle were built by Adler. Such tubes have the additional advantage of low weight and of potentially low cost. With a recently renewed interest in voltage-tunable amplifiers, a simple structure has been proposed which consists of a stack of plates and small coils to form a bandpass filter propagating a transverse backward wave. Two different d.c. potentials are applied to form a series of lenses for beam focusing; with the particular structure this requires no additional elements. Theory shows that a cascade backward-wave amplifier built around this structure is possible with gains of 20 to 30 db, tunable over an octave, instantaneous bandwidths of a few megacycles and noise figures of the order of 3 db or less. Experimental tubes have shown an octave tunable bandwidth with voltage swings of less than 500 V; gains of 20 db are possible with tube lengths of approximately 5 inches. Noise figures of about 5 db were obtained by combining a gun originally designed for a low noise transverse wave TWT with a backward wave structure designed to operate with similar circuit voltages."
"This paper describes the development of the L-3975, a high peak power klystron amplifier in S-band utilizing electrostatic focusing for beam confinement. The design objectives are: operating frequency, 3000 mc; peak power output; 1 MW; average power output, 5 KW; beam voltage, 100 KV max.; bandwidth, 5%; gain 36 db. This development program is significant because it is the first attempt to utilize electrostatic focusing in a high peak power tube. The paper will review in detail the design considerations and design techniques pertinent to an electrostatically focused klystron at this voltage and power level. The focusing utilizes the periodic electrostatic einzellens principle first applied to klystrons by R. Hechtel. A critical design parameter limiting the usable beam voltages is the voltage gradient between the focusing lens and the klystron body. The L-3975 operates with a gross voltage gradient of 442V/mil. Experimental results show a voltage hold-off gradient in excess of 552V/mil for the lens configuration use in the design. The first experimental model of this tube is presently on test and detailed test results will be discussed in the paper."
"A previous analysis of double-stream interactions in the presence of a finite axial magnetic field indicated the possibility of a number of double-stream amplifiers and oscillators. In the present paper experimental confirmation is reported of the theoretically predicted interactions between (1) the \"fast cyclotron wave\" of the slower beam and the \"slow space-charge wave\" of the faster beam; and between (2) the \"fast space-charge wave\" of the slower beam and the \"slow space-charge wave\" of the faster beam."
"Using the beam-plasma interaction for microwave amplification to high powers results in a significant reduction in beam power density over that required in conventional amplifiers. This, and other advantages of the interaction are discussed and some of the possible limitations pointed out. A brief introduction presenting a physical description of the basis of the beam-plasma interaction is given along with the results of a large-signal analysis using a disk model for the electron beam. These results indicate that ratios of fundamental RF current to dc beam current of greater than 1.5 can be obtained with a velocity spread of less than ± 20%. This predicts efficiencies of greater than 60% if an optimum output coupler is used. In order to achieve these efficiencies without sacrificing the advantages of the interaction, tight coupling directly to the RF fields in the plasma must be achieved. Possible coupling methods are discussed along with experimental data showing the degree to which coupling has been achieved."
"This paper concerns the studies of the amplification of microwaves by the interaction of an electron beam with a cesium plasma generated by surface ionization on a heated tungsten wire. The work was concentrated on the following three points: the measurements of noise figures, the comparison of the measured plasma density with the frequency having the maximum gain, and the amplification factors. According to the experimental results, the noise figure with the foregoing plasma tube was 29 dB at the plasma frequency of 1500 MC, which is remarkably smaller than hitherto expected."
"A simplified meshless storage tube has been developed which uses a single-layer dielectric storage target deposited over a transparent conductive coating on the glass faceplate. The dielectric layer serves both of the two principle purposes of bistable charge storage and production of the visible image. The mechanism of writing, storing and erasing depends on the well-known bistability of a good secondary emitting surface under flood current bombardment. The occurrence of an upper and lower stable potential is used, as in previous bistable devices, to form light and dark image areas having a sharply defined boundary between them. This boundary is an inherently unstable region having a high gradient across it, which tends to move the boundary across the face of the target."
"The channel electron multiplier consists of a continuous resistive dynode formed on the inner surface of a tube having a large ratio of length to diameter. When a potential of a few kilovolts is applied between the ends of the tube, an electron entering the low potential end will initiate a cascade of secondary electrons from the wall. The number of electrons emerging from the high potential end of the tube may exceed 108. The electron multiplier may be made sensitive to various forms of radiation, including X-rays, ultra-violt photons, and gas ions. The multiplier may be prepared as a single tube, in which case a wide variety of geometries are possible, or in the form of a parallel array containing large numbers of channels. In this latter form area detectors can be made with the capability of two dimensional analysis of radiation. Such arrays can be used for imaging purposes. The performance of experimental models of various forms of channel multiplier are described, and their use in a variety of applications considered."
"A cathode-ray tube that has been developed for radar applications differentiates between fixed and moving targets by a change in color. The tube employs a two-layer screen separated by a barrier that is transparent to light but opaque to an electron beam. The layer facing the electron gun is comprised of a mixture of an ultraviolet-emitting phosphor (P16) and a red-orange phosphor (an improved P 19 type). The layer facing the observer is a long-decay green phosphor (P2). The buildup and decay times of the P2 phosphor are lengthened under UV excitation as compared with electron-beam excitation. Under operating conditions when the displayed information is stationary, the mixed phosphor layer of P16 and P19 is excited, emitting UV and red-orange light. The UV in turn excites the P2 to a level so that red and green combine to appear white. For moving targets, excitation time is insufficient for the green to reach its steady-state maximum, therefore the moving target appears red-orange. Differentiation between fixed and moving targets is shown by variation in the color shift because of different excitation times involved."
"Monolithic silicon mosaics of photosensor elements have been developed for solid state imaging applications. The physical structure, design features, and performance characteristics of these electro-optical devices will be presented. The sensing monolith consists of a square 50 × 50 mosaic of phototransistor elements which are interconnected both by internally diffused strips and by vacuum deposited surface bars. Fifty X and fifty Y external leads provide access to any individual element XnYmof the mosaic. Fabrication of this 2500 element mosaic involves the techniques of planar passivation, epitaxy, diffusion, and thin films. The individual sensor elements in the structures are based on 0.010 inch centers to provide an imaging resolution of 100 lines per inch."
"The operation of an EBIC (Electron Bombardment Induced Conductivity) type scan converter tube is presented with special emphasis on the ability of these tubes to respond to very high frequency phenomena in the kilomega-cycle range. The frequency limitations of an electrostatic deflection system, using conventional deflection plates, due to transit time and plate resonant frequency is discussed and scan converter design using conventional deflection plates is described. Its characteristics, deflection sensitivity, writing speed, field size and resolution, are given. The increased frequency response of a traveling wave, helix type, deflection system is presented along with a scan converter tube design and typical tube data. Finally, the design of a new type of traveling wave deflection system printed on an insulating substrate, and its operating characteristics are presented along with an all electrostatic, miniaturized and ruggedized scan converter tube using this deflection system."
"The Langmuir current limit is the theoretical limit, imposed by the thermal velocity distribution, on the ratio of current density collected at a screen at potential V0to current density emitted by the cathode. This expression was first derived by D. B. Langmuir for the case of a beam in zero magnetic field and for a single beam temperature. However, realistic electron beams are Characterized by distinct axial and radial temperatures, Tzand Trrespectively, and are usually focussed by magnetic fields. In this paper an analogous current density limit is derived for a solid electron beam characterized by two temperatures. Both uniform and spatially varying magnetic fields are considered for unintercepted beams and for beams which pass through a limiting aperture. A typical result, for the case of a beam with no limiting aperture is:j=j_{o} \\propto [1-\\exp{\\frac{-eV_{o}}{k(\\alpha-1)T_{r}}(\\frac{T_{r}(\\alpha-1)}{T_{z} + (\\alpha-1)T_{r}}α is the ratio of magnetic field at the target to that at the gun, α is greater than one, and jois the emitted density."
"A new type of vidicon has been developed. It uses magnetic focus and electrostatic deflection. Since both fields are superimposed in the same space, Focus Projection and Scanning (FPS) is accomplished simultaneously. In this way, vidicon tubes af very compact size can be realized (typically a1\" \\times 4\"format). The electron optics of this FPS System will be outlined. At unity magnification, excellent landing and edge-focus conditions are achieved. Signal output is high (0.5µA) and resolution up to 800 TV lines has been realized with 350 volts as the highest voltage. For a tube of given size, various performance factors such as resolution, shading and deflection sensitivity can be balanced by design such as to enhance some factors at the expense of others. This mutual interdependence will be briefly discussed. It will also be shown that the ceiling of performance for this combination of crossed-fields is higher than for-similar devices using sequential, rather than simultaneous focusing and deflection."
"Surveillance for National Defense demands the utmost resolution in cathode-ray display tubes. In the development of such a tube, a need arose for an electron source with a continuous emission density capability beyond the present state of the art. Utilizing a newly developed dispenser cathode system, a miniature emitter with an area of5.06 \\times 10^{-4}cm2(0.010 inch in diameter) has been achieved, which is capable of 10 amperes per square centimeter, steady state, at a true temperature of 1000°C or lower. The critical aspects and parameters in the composition and processing of the basic cathode material and in the fabrication of the miniature cathode are reviewed. Results of evaluations of the miniature cathode in sealed-off glass tubes, representing cathode-ray tube environments, and in ion-pumped systems will be discussed. Emission constants and life test results as well as studies of migration of emission material over the surface adjacent to the cathode, using a projection microscope will be described."
"The development of a microwave power amplifier transistor requires a highly advanced technology to achieve the basic parameters which theory predicts will be needed. In addition, very sophisticated microwave techniques must be used in the package design and characterization. Transitions between the active device and external circuitry often dominate performance. Development was started with a 7 mil2, seven-finger transistor with an output power of 100 milliwatts at 2 GHz. With improved diffusion techniques rb1was lowered and ftraised. As a result, the power output was raised to 150 mw at 2 GHz. The next step in increasing the power output was to interconnect four of the 7 mil2transistors on 10 mil centers using evaporated contracts. While this produced more power, the scaling factor was poor; (i.e a 4:1 area increase raised the power only 2:1). The poor scaling was traced to contact and lead inductance losses. The problem then resolved itself to increasing the device area while still maintaining low thermal resistance, low inductance bonds, and minimum contact area. Results of tests on a single 25 mil2transistor indicated that a larger area device could be scaled successfully provided the problems of heat dissipation and lead inductance could be solved. For the final device these were at least partially resolved by making a long thin device with a base aspect ratio of 10:1. This transistor was able to deliver the required 2 watts peak power at 2.25 Gc with a device area of 90 mil2. Thus, power output was increased 13:1 over the prototype device with an area increase of 14:1. Because of high thermal resistance of the packages used, pulsed operation was required (10% duty cycle) at the two watt level. Thermal and electrical properties of a suitable microwave package, and measurement problems are also discussed."
"A distributed model of a transistor which takes into account the lateral voltage drop across the emitter width is described. The distributed equivalent is obtained by dividing the active transistor into small sections, each of which is then represented by a π-equivalent lumped transistor. Other phenomena incorporated in this model are: 1. Base stretching into the collector region at high current densities 2. Conductivity modulation in the base region 3. Storage of mobile carriers in the depletion regions 4. Base width modulation because of collector base bias 5. Voltage dependence of junction capacitances 6. Injection dependence of semiconductor parameters 7. Surface effects A computer program which solves for transient, dc, and ac response for the above transistor model in common-emitter configuration is also presented. The inputs for this program (besides external circuit parameters) are: 1. Transistor horizontal geometry 2. Transistor impurity profile 3. Semiconductor parameters This program was used to design and fabricate a silicon transistor with Ft1.8 gHzat VCB= 0. Effect of variations in horizontal geometry and impurity profile on switching speeds are quantitatively shown and are compared with present state-of-the-art transistors. Additionally, this Program will enable us to custom-design transistors, to pin-point the most promising area of transistor research, and, finally, to indicate the ultimate limit (speed) of silicon transistors."
"A program was conducted to develop a small signal amplifying transistor with a 3.0 db noise figure at 1.3 Gc. To reach this objective, it was necessary to achieve the minimum noise figure, which occurs at low emitter currents. This requires a compromise between rb1and the reduced emitter area, consistent with high current density. The high current density is needed to achieve adequate gain at 1.3 Gc. Low rb1on the other hand, implies a long stripe geometry. The alloyed emitter used was 0.9-mil long and 0.2-mil wide with a 0.1-mil window in the overlying oxide for the contact. The lowest noise figure was obtained at IE= 1.5 ma. The average noise figure of the state-of-the-art samples measured at this current was 3.1 dB at 1.3 Gc."
"An extension of the \"overlay\" concept has led to the design of a VHF power transistor with integrated second-breakdown protection. This device is capable of delivering 50 watts at 80 megacycles per second in Class C or linear amplifiers for single-sideband applications. The paper shows how the final design was derived from investigation of the factors affecting second breakdown in traditional silicon interdigitated transistors. Temperature-sensitive phosphors were used to observe the formation of \"hot spots\" prior to second-breakdown. The \"hot spots\" which result from localized high current densities were correlated with biasing conditions and device geometry. Data are presented showing that localized \"hot spots\" are an inherent, random condition in a transistor. This conclusion led to the design of a device that protects against second breakdown by limiting the formation of high-current-density regions by resistively ballasting a large number of small emitter sites."
"It has been demonstrated that the base current of planar silicon transistors can be separated into a non-ideal and an ideal component. This paper will neglect the non-ideal component. For transistors with transport factors (β) approaching unity, the ideal component is approximately equal to the minority carrier current injected into the emitter. The resulting gain (hereafter called ideal gain) has the form hFE(ideal) - IC/IpEwhere IpEis the hole current injected into the emitter of an npn transistor. Both components obey the well-known exponential law: I = Ioexp (qVEB/kT) A large temperature dependence of ideal gain can be observed on double diffused planar transistors. The ideal gain on the other hand shows no temperature dependence. This indicates that the temperature coefficient of the injected minority carrier currents are different in the emitter and base regions, while those in the base and collector regions are identical."
"Fast rise time pulses can be generated with a special high-frequency silicon transistor structure having a collector diffusion profile designed to control the charge storage in the collector. When this transistor is switched out of saturation, the field in the collector forces the stored minority carriers towards the center of the base-collector junction. At the end of the storage phase, the transistor switches abruptly to the open condition in the same manner as a step recovery diode. The switching current flows through the base, and thus a very low base resistance is required. This is accomplished using a high-frequency interdigitated transistor geometry with metal over oxide connections. The transistor also requires a uniform impurity profile through the whole collector base junction which is obtained in a mesa-type collector junction. An unusual structure is used to combine these two requirements."
"Some of the restrictions on integrated circuit design have been overcome by the development of high frequency, complementary bipolar transistors which are compatible with present day integrated circuit process techniques. In the area of linear amplifiers, complementary NPN-PNP transistors are desired in order to provide dc level shifting, low power dissipation and high input impedance for very high gain amplifiers. The complementary transistor circuits are also preferred in the design of certain digital circuits such as low power logic and memory drivers."
"Average propagation delay times of less than one nanosecond have been achieved in silicon monolithic integrated circuits through utilization of very high performance npn silicon transistors in Emitter Coupled and TTL circuits. In particular those factors of integrated circuit design and fabrication which are important in obtaining sub-nanosecond performance in monolithic silicon microcircuits will be covered as well as the relative performance of those circuits in discrete and microcircuit form. Silicon transistor high frequency performance has been extended well beyond the levels previously described. Transistors have been fabricated with measured fTin the order of 5 Gc. The design features and techniques for producing 4-5 GcfT, rb1<10 Ω, npn silicon transistors will be given."
"A technique is described for preparing oxide isolated silicon structures suitable for integrated circuit applications. The key step in this new process is the use of a silicon carbide stopping layer that is vapor deposited prior to the growth of the silicon dioxide dielectric layer. This silicon carbide layer substitutes a simple single crystal removal step for a very critical removal step that is common to most oxide isolation processes. The fact that silicon carbide has a greater hardness than either silicon or silicon dioxide makes it an excellent material for use in oxide isolated integrated circuits. Silicon wafers of up to 1.3\" in diameter can be produced with single crystal isolated structures that are uniform in thickness across the entire wafer. The application of this new isolation technique to several integrated circuit applications will be detailed and some performance characteristics will be presented."
"Silicon controlled rectifiers employing a planar NPN transistor structure and a lateral PNP structure have been fabricated by epitaxial and diffusion techniques into a single four layer structure in an isolation region. Fabrication steps are completely compatible with the fabrication of other standard integrated circuit components. Effective isolation between SCR devices is obtained using standard junction-type isolation. A high concentration deep N+ subdiffusion is employed under the lateral SCR device to minimize the current gain of the parasitic PNP transistor consisting of the P-type anode of the SCR, the N-type epitaxial layer and the P-type substrate. Degradation of both the SCR blocking voltage capabilities and dV/dt (anode to cathode voltage rise rate) rating and excessive power dissipation result at the isolation junction if the parasitic current gain from the anode to substrate is high. Typical SCR characteristics include greater than 50 volts breakover voltage, under 1.8 volts forward voltage at 300 milliamperes load current, under .2 millamperes gate current with a greater than 10V/usec dV/dt at 150°C case temperature."
"A novel technique for selective NPN transistor storage time control on a silicon monolithic, integrated chip is described. The method exploits the parasitic PNP transistor which is inherent in the basic diffused isolation structure of epitaxial integrated circuits. This unique four-layer NPNP structure permits the excess stored charge in the collector of a saturated NPN transistor to be shunted to the substrate by the action of the parasitic PNP. The switching performance of devices fabricated in this manner are superior to any saturating transistors now available with little compromise in saturation voltage. Storage times of less than one nanosecond are achieved on a reproducible basis. An analysis of the operation of the device is presented, including the theoretical and empirical relationship between the fTof the PNP and the storage time of the saturating NPN."
"The advent of the laser as a Raman source has revitalized the interest of physicists in the Raman effect. Measurements of precise depolarization factors, angular dependence, and absolute cross sections for Raman scattering became easier to make. The use of the 6328 Å He-Ne and the 4880 and 5145 Å argon ion laser lines allow high signal-to-noise continuous recording of the Raman effect for liquids and solids. The problem of averaging all the random orientations of the liquid molecules has been restudied, and its effect on the angular dependence and depolarization factors of the Raman lines in liquids will be given. Measurements of Raman scattering in solids, where the use of the laser is revolutionizing the subject, will be discussed."
"The fabrication of microwave planar transistors and very high speed integrated circuits is well known to depend on the realization of transistor or circuit patterns in the micron and submicron range. This paper discusses results of basic studies on the generation of such micro-patterns on photographic plates, and photosensitive resists as well as pattern etching in SiO2and metal films. The resolving power of various lenses on high resolution plates and photoresists has been measured as a function of the objective and illumination aperture. A resolution of 3000 lines per millimeter at an aperture close to 1 is obtained, demonstrating that the results are only diffraction limited. With a specially designed microscope objective, for example, a useful pattern of 1 micron linewidth, uniform over an image area of 80 × 80 mils, has been produced. For still larger image areas, a new lens has shown a resolving power of 375 lines per millimeter, uniform over an image area of 1 inch diameter. Presently, useful patterns of 3 microns minimum linewidth may be produced uniformly on 1 inch substrates, without using the step and repeat method in the final reduction step."
"Light emission between liquid helium temperature and room temperature, as well as lasing below 90°K, has been observed from p-type GaAs structures containing high resistivity regions. These regions are obtained at the boundary of the zinc layer when zinc is diffused into (p-type) manganese-doped GaAs. Voltage probes along the current direction, normal to the interface between the zinc and manganese dominated regions, show that the high resistivity region is p-type. The temperature dependence of the resistance of the region shows that it is still dominated by manganese, as is the bulk material into which the zinc is diffused. No unequivocal determination of the width of the region could be made, but various indications show that it is of the order of one micron. In lasing structures zinc is diffused into the opposite faces of a manganese doped wafer in such a fashion that the central region and the two zinc diffused regions are each approximately 0.001\" wide. When the voltage applied to a unit is of the order of twenty volts, a sharp increase in current occurs accompanied by light emission. The critical voltage is not strongly temperature dependent, varying only a few volts between room temperature and liquid helium temperature. It is believed that the light emission is the result of an avalanche breakdown of the high resistivity regions."
"A novel and promising technique for the direct detection of wide-band microwave-frequency-modulated light has been analyzed and demonstrated. The system consists of an optical dispersing element followed by a photocathode and transverse-field interaction circuit. The disperser causes the light beam to swing back and forth in accordance with the instantaneous optical frequency, resulting in generation of a transversely modulated electron beam at the photocathode, which modulation is then detected by the circuit. Results obtained with an experimental FM phototube confirm the analysis for small modulation indices, including a spurious effect due to aperturing of the swinging light beam. Improved versions of the FM phototube involving electron multiplication should provide shot noise limited operation at VHF or microwave frequencies. The ability of the FM phototube to utilize large-index modulation is unique and may lead to superior incoherent detection systems. In particular the signal to shot noise ratio is nearly that of an ideal heterodyne receiver, and the FM phototube system inherently discriminates against background light."
"It has been reported that radiation from GaAs electroluminescent diodes operated under forward bias conditions gradually decreases with time. This paper, which is a more comprehensive study of the effect, describes the results of a large-scale, systematic aging study (500 diodes, each aged about 2000 hours) for a wide range of fabrication parameters and stress conditions. The fabrication variables encompass surface preparation, encapsulation, and crystal types. The stress conditions included current densities from 0 to 500 A/cm2at room temperature and from 0 to 130 A/cm2at 65°C. The effect of the above parameters on the rate of decay of the light output will be presented. A particular method of junction preparation which produced a marked decrease in the light decay rate will also be discussed. The observed data will be interpreted by considering a competing nonradiative recombination process through intermediate energy levels."
"GaAs injection lasers were prepared by an epitaxial solution growth method. Their electrical and optical properties are compared with those of diffused junctions. At high temperatures the laser properties of the two types of junctions were quite different. The optical gain factor β was as much as 6.7 times higher for the epitaxial diodes at 300°K. This resulted in a reduction of the threshold current density jt relative to the values for diffused diodes. Threshold current densities as low as 26,000 amp/cm2were measured for epitaxial lasers (3.8 \\times 10^{-2}cm length) at 300°K. At low temperatures (77°K) gain factor and loss numbers had similar values for the two laser types. The spontaneous linewidth of the epitaxial lasers was unusually large (∼ 300 Å at 77°K) and increased with decreasing junction voltage. The variation of spontaneous light intensity and diode current with voltage will be discussed in view of tunneling and thermal excitation across the junction barrier. The vertical beam spread was found to be between 20-30 degrees half width at 77°K and at 300°K. At higher temperatures diffused diodes frequently show as much as a 35 ns delay between the current pulse and the stimulated emission dependent on the current value. No such delay was observed in epitaxial lasers, and their emission spectra did not show any low energy emission lines."
"Yttrium aluminum garnet (Y3Al5O12) doped with trivalent neodymium as an active ion, and trivalent chromium as an activator or energy transfer agent, has been operated as a continuous room temperature laser at the ten watt output level with 0.33% overall efficiency when pumped with a high pressure mercury lamp. The operating characteristics of this laser are strongly influenced by the energy transfer rate from the Cr3+to the Nd3+. The typical transfer rate of 1 ms gives rise to a repetitive spiking output when the laser is operated at high power levels, the spikes being typically of 0.6 µs duration and 160 watts peak power. The optical design and operation of this laser will be discussed along with considerations as to the efficiency and output power that could be achieved with further optimization of the system parameters."
"The work to be described is aimed at the achievement of simultaneous microwave and optical maser action in ruby, as an extension of earlier work on a laser-pumped microwave maser. Such optical cascade pumping has some fundamental advantages compared to the case for which the optical and microwave maser action occur in separate crystals. A ruby laser rod (cooled to 90°K) has been incorporated into an open-sided X-band cavity, and observations have been made of the zero field ground state ESR during laser action. The laser output was monitored by a Fabry-Perot interferometer and consisted of one or two lines (depending on the optical pump power and the level of ESR saturation) corresponding to the2E(oE) → ± 1/2 and ± 3/24A2transitions. For pump energies up to about twice threshold the changes which occurred in the ESR absorption during the sequence of flashlamp pumping, laser action, and fluorescent decay from the2E levels were consistent with the known laser and fluorescent characteristics. At higher pump energies, however, anomalous effects were observed in that sudden large changes in the ESR absorption occurred prior to the onset of laser oscillation. A description of the apparatus and possible interpretations of the results will be given."
"Historically, microwave tubes have been fabricated from massive metal and ceramic parts. Recently, heavy emphasis has been made to lighten tubes for airborne applications. The requirements for lightweight, increased precision, and reduced costs have led to a novel approach to tube structure in which thin film technology including a photocopied process to produce a slow-wave structure on a ceramic substrate for an M-type backward-wave oscillator. Means for obtaining suitable bond of metal film to substrate without excessive rf loss is described. This paper will also discuss the problem of minimizing the sole sputtering phenomenon which degrades delay line propagation, and will report on operating performance of a 50 watt M-BWO having this type of delay line."
"The Coated Powder Cathode has been developed in response to the need for a cathode combining the virtues of the various conventional cathode types, which would be suited to use in modern high power, high reliability electron tubes. It is best considered as a modification of the classic oxide cathode in which each particle of the emissive coating is covered with a thin layer of nickel. Inherent advantages of the cathode over the oxide cathode include the ability to sustain current densities up to 1 amp/cm2at approximately 810°C, improved coating adhesion and reduced coating resistance. This paper describes the concept, fabrication and mechanism of the cathode and presents data obtained from a diode evaluation program."
"Radio-frequency energy generated in a vacuum tube is-partially dissipated as heat on passing through its output window. The electrical losses arise because of dielectric loss in the ceramic window itself and losses in the seal between the ceramic and the metal member of the tube. The most common method of effecting a ceramic-to-metal seal is by metallizing the ceramic, followed by brazing it to the metal member. For this complex joint, electrical losses can be primarily separated into those due to conduction and to those due to dielectric polarization of the non-metallic phases present in the seal. Secondary sources of loss may arise due to electrostructive, magneto strictive and semi-conductive effects."
"Conventional intercepting grids are used in convergent beam electron guns to pulse the beam on and off using a relatively low voltage pulse compared to the cathode voltage, thus reducing modulator size and power requirements. This type of grid is fundamentally limited to low average power tubes in order to prevent thermionic grid emission or melting of the center portion of the grid. This paper discusses a type of non-intercepting grid designed for use on convergent beam electron guns where excessive grid temperature would prohibit use of an intercepting type grid. The non-intercepting nature of the grid is achieved by means of a double aligned pair of grids with the shadowing grid closest to the cathode electrically connected to the cathode. Using this type of grid, guns for high power traveling wave tubes have been built and tested with excellent results. In a particular case, a gun which typically intercepts 10% to 15% of the cathode current on the grid using a conventional grid had only 0.11% interception with the double grid. This gun, which is used on a C-band tube, has been successfully operated to 2.5% duty at 37 KV. In addition to the C-band tube, nonintercepting gridded guns are being incorporated into S-band and X-band tubes. Fabrication techniques for this type of structure will be discussed and experimental test data will be shown. Extensive measurements have been taken with a pinhole beam analyzer in a demountable beam tester to determine how the current density profile of the beam is changed by adjusting the relative position of the aligned grid. Empirical design curves have been obtained for optimizing the grid parameters."
"Several kinds of electron devices of sub-micron dimensions, the sole constituents of which are refractory metals and dielectrics, are under development at SRI, with a view toward high reliability and stability in systems containing large numbers of such components. Current work on micron-size tubes with field emission cathodes and on binary storage elements in this size range, accessible with high-resolution electron beams, is described. Also, the film deposition and micromachining techniques for producing such devices are discussed."
"The triggered vacuum gap is a new metal-vapor arc device in which a vacuum gap is broken down by the injection of minute quantities of ionized hydrogen. A glow discharge is first produced which is rapidly transformed into a metal-vapor arc causing the gap to break down in less than one-tenth microsecond. The small quantities of hydrogen released are eventually recovered by a titanium hydride getter. Release of gas from the electrodes during arcing is avoided by the use of zone-refined electrode materials. Properties of the metal-vapor are described which have an effect on the characteristics of the vacuum gap. The ability of a vacuum gap to hold off high voltage and then recover its dielectric strength rapidly after arcing has made it attractive as an overvoltage protection device and as a current switch for crowbar applications. A number of practical sealed-off triggered vacuum gaps are described. These are used to carry capacitor discharge currents of a few microseconds and 60-cycle power line currents for\\frac{1}{2}cycle. The advantages of vacuum gaps over gas-filled gaps are given and a number of overvoltage protection and switching applications are listed."
"The principle of the triggered vacuum gap exemplified as a new metal-vapor arc device in which a vacuum gap is broken down by the injection of a minute quantity of ionized hydrogen has been successfully applied to the development of high voltage energy diverters designed to operate from several hundred volts up to 350 kilovolts. The use of multiple series gradient electrodes to obtain high voltage hold-off by uniform voltage division with a single plasma injection source is described. Switching times and voltage and current breakdown characteristics have been measured and are reported. Triggering characteristics as a function of design parameter have been investigated. This development has resulted in high voltage, high power, energy diverters with fast triggering and recovery times and with wide voltage range suitable for the protection of RF components. The program and similar application has also contributed new experimental background to the understanding of vacuum breakdown."
"While the triggered vacuum gap is well suited to performing switching functions at high voltage, its high current-carrying ability, low arc drop and relative ease of firing make it useful at low voltage as well. The firing characteristics of this device were therefore studied in the range 100 to 1000 volts. Results showed that the gap could be consistently fired with a trigger current of 10 amperes in a time less than a micro second. Although little or no dependence of firing time on the voltage across the main electrodes was found, at least 250 volts across the main gap was required in order that a stable metal vapor arc could be reliably established. Throughout this study the polarity of the trigger current as well as that of the main gap. voltage were found to have a marked effect on the firing characteristics at low voltage."
"In prior studies, the most successful infinite range energy diverter designed for protection of microwave devices was a fixed-space multiple-gap array with sequential firing of the gaps. The structure was fairly complicated and required individual capacitors from each electrode to ground. A new type of array, which in appearance has the shape of an hour-glass, has been developed. It eliminates the heed for the high-voltage capacitors, is simpler to construct, and provides excellent high-voltage shielding. The energy requirements for triggering are about one joule. Firing time from zero voltage to the maximum voltage used in the tests was less than 0.5 microsecond. Data on an \"Hour-Glass\" array with several variations of interelectrode capacitance using both positive and negative triggers have been obtained. The effect of sharpening gaps in the trigger circuit on firing reliability will be discussed."
"Several types of semiconductor devices made by ion implantation will be described, as well as engineering data describing the penetration of B11and p31ions in silicon, and typical projected applications to integrated circuits. By ion implantation is meant the process of irradiation of a solid with energetic ions in which the distribution of arrested ions beneath the surface is determined by the target material and by the atomic number, energy, integrated flux, and relative orientation of the incident ions. Energies utilized in this technique are sufficiently high (50 to 400 keV) to minimize sputtering and to produce useful junction depths without using the process of \"channeling\" between preferred crystal planes. In addition the high energy has allowed fabrication of devices by implantation through a passivating surface oxide, which was previously applied by sputtering at temperatures less than 100°C."
"Oscillations of tens of kilocycles/sec across a Germanium crystal, subjected to a strong pulsed electric field through a small area metallic contact, have been observed in recent years but left unexplained. A thorough investigation of this phenomenon resulted in establishing the electromechanical nature of the oscillations. Indeed Germanium has been found to exhibit a very large electrostriction, also the electrical oscillations were found to be accompanied with mechanical oscillations of identical frequency; the latter was established to be the natural frequency of the mechanical system (crystal and holder). In a quantitative analysis of the phenomenon the fourth rank tensor of electrostriction for Germanium was measured and found to be unexpectedly large; different possible processes of regeneration were then considered in order to explain the characteristics of the sustained oscillations; as a result the feedback loop Was established to be through the elastoresistive change of resistivity of the Germanium crystal due to the electrostrictively induced strains. Finally an equivalent circuit is obtained for this novel two terminal electromechanical oscillator which is now called the Electrostrictor."
"The application of lateral transistors to silicon integrated circuits has been reported by H. C. Lin et al. The current gain of such a lateral transistor is generally low due to the relatively wide base width as compared to a double-diffused planar transistor. However, under proper conditions, the current gain can be controlled by a field-effect electrode across the base region. This paper describes the characteristics and the mechanism of operation of this device. The structure of the device consists of two diffused junctions side by side and a thin oxide layer which is covered by a metallic layer over the base region between the collector and the emitter. The field-effect electrode controls the surface recombination in the base region which in turn controls the lateral transistor's current gain. Experimental data on a lateral p-n-p transistor will be given. With this control electrode, high current gain can be obtained without excessively reducing the base width of the lateral transistor. Current gain of a stable single p-n-p transistor as high as fifty has been obtained. Various factors which affect the lateral transistor action such as the physical spacing, surface recombination and collector depletion layer modulation will be discussed. The observed effects can be explained by the surface recombination generation mechanism and the effective surface base width. Relationships between the change of surface potential over the base region and the transistor current gain will be discussed. Comparison of the lateral transistor with and without the control electrode will be discussed also."
"A transistor structure which has been recently reported and which utilizes the lateral part of planar diffused junctions offers some unique advantages in fabricating a complimentary circuit as well as a discrete device due to the simplicity and compatibility in fabrication. A lateral p-n-p transistor was subjected to a detailed investigation with respect to device performance and its relation to geometrical parameters and processing steps. It was possible to trace back the low frequency current gain and the stability of the device to the following influential factors. 1. Concentration distribution of the diffused impurity. 2. Ratio between certain junction areas. 3. Geometric parameters. 4. Annealing and ambient treatments during processing. Devices fabricated during this investigation showed a current gain considerably higher than unity. Performance data and the stability of the device will be discussed in relation to the above mentioned parameters."
"Summary for only given, as follows. This report discusses the investigation and solution of the so-called \"solder ball,\" problem which has plagued the transistor industry for years. Upon investigating silicon alloy transistors which use tin for electrodes, it was discovered that \"solder balls\" (which can cause internal short-circuiting of the device) are not necessarily associated with manufacturing procedures as previously believed, but are produced by the devices themselves because of the material used in construction. Electrical stresses or high temperatures produce balls in units which initially were free of any foreign matter. This is due to the low melting temperature tin alloy used in the transistor's (or other semiconductors) construction. Thus, devices may have balls when put in use and later cause equipment failure. The devices appear good under all measurements. However, when the device is in use, a mechanical shock may shake a ball loose, shorting the transistor and making the circuit inoperable."
"The graded band gap base transistor, first proposed by Kroemer, employs a change in band gap of the semiconductor within the base region of a bipolar transistor structure to produce an accelerating field for minority carriers traversing the base. This field reduces the base transit time and can increase transistor cutoff frequency. This paper describes recent results of research aimed at the examination of this device concept using the semiconductor alloy system Ga(As,P). Ga- (As,P) alloys have been synthesized by vapor phase transport-and epitaxial deposition. Deposits were formed on single crystal GaAs substrates using PCl3, AsCl3H2and GaAs as reactants. Graded band gap deposits were obtained by varying the ratio of AsCl3to PC3introduced into the epitaxial deposition reactor during deposit growth. Deposit composition and quality have been evaluated using x-ray diffraction and topography, optical reflectivity, angle lapping and staining, and Hall effect measurements."
"In a depletion mode MOSFET, a conducting channel exists in the region between the source and the drain which is not covered by the gate. This channel appears as a leakage between the source and the drain even when the MOSFET's are supposed to be cut off and lowers the drain output impedance when the MOSFET is conducting. This situation is aggravated in an integrated circuit when a metallic interconnection with drain potential runs over the oxide. For this reason, it has been very difficult to integrate monolithically the n-channel enhancement mode transistor. The leakage between the source and drain of an n-channel MOSFET can be eliminated by a p+guard band. If the conductivity is high, the surface states on the oxide are insufficient to create an inversion layer. The new MOS transistor has an open structure i.e. the drain does not completely surround the source and the source does not completely surround the drain. The metallic gate covers the active channel region between the source and the drain. A p+guard band surrounds the active MOS transistor. Two inward extensions of the guard band are inserted into the channel region between the source and the drain and under the gate. If the p-type substrate in the drain compartment is inverted into the n-type surface as does the substrate in the source compartment, the p+guard band prevents the two inversion layers from conducting. Thus, the leakage between the source and the drain is avoided. This structure has been used to construct n-channel MOSFET's of both depletion mode and enhancement mode. For the depletion mode MOSFET's, output impedance comparable to junction-type FET's has been achieved. This structure proves to be a practical method for achieving stable enhancement n-channel MOSFET's. The use of this structure in a practical video amplifier will be illustrated."
"The basic MOS structure can be utilized for designing resistors with resistivities in the range of 7 - 25 Kohm/square. The gate induced surface inversion layer is used for the resistor body, while the source and drain regions will be the end terminals. Device characteristics will depend on the biasing conditions. Various modes of operations are studied. Typical modes of operations are (a) constant source to bulk bias and (b) constant drain to bulk bias. Analytical expressions are generated to describe the current-voltage characteristics of these conditions. The analysis is extended to include more general situations of device operation."
"The ability to utilize very high sheet resistivities is one of the advantages of using thin film resistors on silicon integrated circuits. This paper discusses a process which produces a film having a sheet resistivity of 2500 Ω/□. an order of magnitude higher than current typical thin films. Five-megohm resistors have been fabricated on 12 × 20 mil areas. These resistors have TCR's of -250 to -350 ppm and exhibit elevated temperature aging stability comparable to that reported for tantalum films having much lower resistivities. This stability is obtained without the addition of a further protective coating."
"The use of a suspended clamped-free cantilever beam as the gate electrode for an MOS-type silicon transistor results in a minute, very high Q bandpass filter for integrated circuits. The center frequency of this filter is equal to the mechanical resonant frequency of the cantilever beam electrode. In operation, the metal cantilever is electrically polarized. Input signals are applied between the cantilever and an additional insulated input gate located underneath a portion of the cantilever away from the source-drain regions of the transistor. Electrostatic forces, exerted on the cantilever by the input signal, cause a relatively large cantilever motion perpendicular to the silicon surface at mechanical resonance, with subsequent field-effect modulation of the channel conductance and a corresponding A.C. output voltage. Input frequencies off resonance are rejected."
"An integrated structure which uses the nearly ideal switch characteristics of an insulated gate field effect transistor to sample a pn photodiode will be described. This structure permits operation of the pn photodiode in a photon flux integration mode. This mode of operation is based on the fact that if a pn junction is charged to a reverse voltage less than its breakdown voltage and then open circuited, the rate of decay of charge stored on the space charge capacitance with zero incident illumination is independent of junction area and can have a time constant in the order of tenths of a second. Under illumination this rate of decay of charge depends linearly on the intensity of the incident illumination. That is, the charge removed at any instant of time is proportional to the time integral of illumination. The insulated gate field effect transistor provides a high conductance when in the ON condition to charge the space charge capacitance and a very low conductance during the integration time. This structure lends itself very nicely to monolithic integration of linear arrays where individual photodetectors are sampled periodically on a time-shared basis. Such arrays may be sampled in any order providing the possibility of spatially preprocess information. This device provides not only better sensitivity but also improved S/N ratio over other electronic imaging devices. Several advantages offered by this device are: (1) linear dependence of signal on light intensity over several orders of magnitude; (2) electronically controllable sensitivity; (3) ease of integration into arrays for image sensing."
"A 70 × 70 mil monolithic silicon memory chip has been successfully fabricated which is used as a unit building block to structure a three dimensional high speed scratch pad memory. The chip contains 16 memory cells with each cell consisting of 5 transistors and 4 resistors. The memory array can be non-destructively read with an 8 nanosecond pulse width and requires a 20 nanosecond write pulse width. The \"one\" signal level is 60 millivolts into a 20 ohm sense load with essentially an infinite signal to noise ratio. The integrated silicon devices have npn planar diffused structures with junction isolation. The circuits have single level fixed pattern interconnections on thermally grown oxide with one underpass resistor per cell to provide the crossing of signal lines."
"Germanium, microplasma-free, avalanche photodiodes have been fabricated using guard ring mesa structures. The diode fabrication procedure used a 5 micron Sb diffusion in the guard ring and a 0.3 micron As diffusion in the 0.002\" diameter avalanche region. Uniform breakdown voltages of 16 to 40 volts were obtained by varying the bulk resistivity. Room temperature leakage current below breakdown was typically one tenth of a microampere. Room temperature dc multiplication factors of more than 100 were measured at a wavelength of 1.15 microns. At 3 Gc a power gain greater than 20db was obtained. Microwave signal power was measured as a function of multiplication and can be described in terms of a small signal equivalent circuit. Signal-to-noise ratios and maximum achievable power gains were measured as a function of frequency. Thus, for the first time, enough gain has been achieved to overcome receiver noise at room temperature in a microwave near-infrared detector at moderate light levels."
"The demodulation of microwave-modulated light has been demonstrated using both photoemissive devices and semi-conductor photodiodes. However these devices are presently not sensitive enough for use in practical wide bandwidth optical systems. Some form of internal current gain is necessary in order to achieve a sensitivity comparable with conventional photomultiplier tubes. Electron multiplication at microwave frequencies has been demonstrated in dynamic crossed-field photomultipliers and in a static crossed-field photomultiplier, each having a rather low impedance coaxial output. In addition TSEM films have been used in conjunction with a traveling-wave output section, but these devices are rather limited in allowable current density."
"Measurements on a degenerate UHF photoparametric amplifier using an optical signal modulated at 690 Mc has confirmed the 3 dB noise figure predicted. The silicon photoparametric diode served as both the photodetector and varactor and was novel in several respects: the conductivity sequence was p-v-n-n+in contrast to the usual p-v-n+conventionally used for microwave photodiodes; and the diode was designed to be illuminated parallel to the p-v junction. Such a structure has an inherently high Q and features an extended optical response (quantum efficiency ≈ 10% at 1.06 µ), coupled with good UHF photodetection behavior, when used either as a simple (unpumped) photodiode or as a photoparametric diode. Data will be presented on photoparametric amplifier noise figure, bandwidth vs gain, and diode optical and electrical characteristics."
"We have measured the noise properties of high speed silicon and germanium avalanche photodiodes in the frequency range from a few megacycles up to several Gc, and for photocurrent multiplications up to and including breakdown. At microwave frequencies, and for voltages less than breakdown, the measured mean square noise current measured as a function of increasing multiplication M shows two distinct regions. For low values of M, the noise power is observed to increase approximately as the 2.5 power of M, in qualitative agreement with a simple model for the fluctuations in M. At high multiplications the noise is limited by the time constant associated with the multiplication. Noise measurements in this region yield a value for this time constant (typically2-4\\times10^{-12}sec) which is in reasonable agreement with values obtained directly from microwave demodulation experiments. At low frequencies the noise power increases even more rapidly with current up to the breakdown region, where the noise power decreases approximately as the reciprocal of current. An important practical implication of these results is that the best signal-to-noise ratio is achieved when the multiplication is such that the multiplied shot noise is just equal to the sum of the series resistance and receiver noise. Further multiplication, in effect, only amplifies noise faster than it does signal. Thus, although avalanche multiplication does improve the detector sensitivity, the minimum detectable signal will still depend on receiver noise."
"An ultrasonic light deflection system is described which employs Bragg reflection to varythe direction of a laser beam, producing a linear scan at the horizontal TV rate. About 200 elements can be resolved, a three-fold improvement over a similar system recently reported in the literature. This paper describes the steps which had to be taken to achieve the improvement. Ultrasound in water, in the 30-40 Mc range, is used to obtain Bragg reflection; to change the angle at a linear rate, the frequency is modulated with a sawtooth wave. In the earlier system, the peak-to-peak frequency change was 5 Mc, well within the bandwidth capability of quartz transducers working into water. In the present system, the frequency change is 15 Mc. Ceramic transducers are capable of providing this bandwidth, but their acoustic match to water is poor. An intermediate acoustic section, not involving critical dimensions, flattens the response and improves the match."
"A wide-band optical beam-steering device has been constructed which is capable of over 300 spot positions of deflection in both horizontal and vertical directions. The beam is passed through a set of mirrors made to tilt by piezoelectric elements, in response to an electrical signal, at deflection rates from 0 to 20 Kc. Optimum resolution is maintained in both horizontal and vertical steerers with a unity magnification telescope. It will be shown how effects of hysteresis and voltage nonlinearity in the piezoelectric elements may be overcome through the use of a polarization measuring technique. Experimental data on light transmission, drive power, and linearity will be presented, along with methods for minimizing the temperature sensitivity of deflection. Techniques for alignment and calibration of such a device will be discussed briefly."
"A theory of acoustic scattering of light in a Fabry-Perot resonator is described. The theory predicts the optimum acoustic scattering frequencies, the acoustic bandwidth, and the scattering enhancements as a function of the cavity geometry. The calculation is based on the formalism developed by Gordon and Rigden for the Fabry-Perot Electro-optic Modulator. Experiments are discussed which yield results in excellent agreement with the theory. Acoustic phase velocities can be determined to 4-place accuracy. The experiments illustrate that narrow-band modulators (∼ 10 mc/s) can be made to produce 100% amplitude modulation with acoustic powers less than 50 milliwatts."
"The simple meander line has attractive qualities for use in wide bandwidth crossed-field amplifiers. It propagates in a fundamental forward wave mode with a potential bandwith approaching that of the helix, has a high coupling impedance, and is not difficult to match. In practical use it can be mounted on ceramic or supported on stubs which facilitate liquid cooling. Phase shift and coupling impedance data are presented to indicate the bandwidth potential of an open stub-supported meander circuit which has been developed. Dimensional stability and high dissipation characteristics allow the circuit to be utilized for CFA design through C-band. Cold test data agree well with results of a new equivalent circuit analysis which is valid for both mid-band and band edge regions."
"Recent noise-figure measurements on crossed-field amplifiers indicate that such devices are not necessarily noisy. With proper design considerations the noise-figure value of a crossed-field amplifier can be reduced appreciably. In this paper the measurements made on a low-noise (3.5 db) S-band, medium power (saturation power about 12 watts) forward-wave crossed-field amplifier are discussed. The amplifier, using a short Kino gun and a velocity-jump-type configuration at the gun exit, was designed after taking into account several considerations necessary for noise-reduction purposes. The various parameters are optimized for low noise and maximum gain; the experimental values deviate very little (less than 5 percent) from the design values of these parameters: Under optimum conditions large space-charge smoothing is noticed. The criticality of these parameters on the tube performance (noise figure and gain) is discussed. Mostly, the deterioration in noise figure (due to a small deviation in one of the parameters) can be closely compensated by adjusting one of the other parameters. The effect of mismatch (along the line and at the input-output terminations) on the deterioration of noise figure is discussed. Reduction in noise figure by several decibels is achieved over a wide band (the gain changes by a comparatively small amount) by adjusting the match at the output section. Noise properties of the short Kino gun are investigated under different modes of operation."
"A family of Ka-band (35 Gc) inverted coaxial magnetrons has been designed and developed. This group of tubes covers the range of frequencies from 33.4 Gc through 36.4 Gc and provides power output levels from 30 kw peak to 200 kw peak. The inverted coaxial magnetron employs a geometry in which the cathode surrounds the anode. The anode is a right circular cylindrical cavity to which are affixed vane resonators pointing radially outward. Alternate resonators are slot coupled, symmetrically, to the cavity operating in the TE011circular electric mode. This arrangement provides a slow-wave π-mode field pattern at the tips of the resonators for electronic interaction. Power is coupled from a cavity end wall directly into circular waveguide operating in the TE01transmission mode."
"Development work on reentrant stream crossed-field amplifiers at S-F-D laboratories has resulted in a highly refined X-band amplifier capable of 400 kw peak and 2 kw average power output. The tube has been tested extensively from 9.1 Gc to 9.4 Gc, although operation is possible over a much wider range. The tube has a gain of 15 db with signal to noise ratio greater than 40 db when measured through a 3 Mc bandwidth filter. Greater gain is possible at reduced Signal to noise ratio. This is typical of a crossed-field amplifier and this feature will be described in detail. In addition, the dependence of phase linearity as a function of gain will be discussed. Departures from linearity of less than 10 degrees over 300 Mc bandwidth are obtained at 15 db gain with the tube operating into a VSWR of 1.3. Departure from linearity is even less when operating into a matched load."
"Two programs to develop stable, wide-band, high gain, high power crossed-field amplifiers of linear format were recently completed. These amplifiers operate in x and Ku band with 23 db gain and a CW power output of up to 2 kw and 600 watts respectively. 20% bandwidth has been achieved on both tubes. Both tubes utilized severed circuits. The tubes have been packaged in permanent magnets featuring a high degree of magnetic shielding through the use of a soft iron return circuit surrounding the high-coercive force magnetic material that is used. This paper details the electrical design procedure and points out the salient features of the tube design. It also summarizes the results of the testing of the tubes and the correlation of the results with the design approaches used."
"Fuel cells have emerged onto the engineering stage. The most publicized system is, of course, the Gemini fuel cell. Possibly less well known are the \"pilot plant\" modules (5 KW) for accomplishing the indirect fuel cell oxidation of hydrocarbons. Hydrazine/air fuel cells are being adapted for military use as \"special\" power supplies. Test vehicles, e.g. lift tracks, have also been built with H2/O2and N2H4/O2systems. These efforts have heped define the basic engineering and research problems which must be solved in developing a \"second generation\" of fuel cell power plants."
"The ability to lock the frequency of magnetron oscillators with an injected RF signal allows these high-efficiency devices to be utilized in modern radars which require electronic frequency variation or pulse-to-pulse phase coherence. Furthermore, this ability allows magnetrons to be cascaded in order to obtain an output power greater than a single tube. An equivalent circuit has been used to compute the locked performance of composite magnetrons containing up to ten sections. The required equivalent circuit parameters may be determined, for example, from the Rieke diagram of the prototype section. Both reciprocal and non-reciprocal (circulator) coupling schemes have been studied. Circulator coupling provides better gain-bandwidth and stability. Reciprocal coupling offers lower dissipation and a more compact structure, and by proper circuit techniques \"reflectionless\" operation is possible. Both types of coupling may be used to advantage in the same array. Experimental verification of the concepts has been obtained at X-band with peak powers of several hundred kilowatts using packaged magnetrons. A single tube with circulator coupling and arrays of up to three magetrons using reciprocal coupling have been tested."
"The advent of fuel cells, thermo-electric and thermionic generators has provided a group of energy sources having output voltages less than 1.5 volts at currents up to hundreds of amperes. Voltages of this order are unsuitable for the operation of most electronic equipment, and therefore some means must be found of efficiently increasing the low output voltages of these sources to more suitable levels."
"A brief description will be given of a thermionic converter and its operation. It is a high temperature heat engine with the \"cold\" temperature about 1000°K. Because of the high reject heat temperature thermionic converters appear attractive for static electric generators for space and as topping devices for steam turbines in central station nuclear power plants. To indicate the present state of development, a review will be given of the International Conference on Thermionic Electric Power Generation held in London, Sept. 20-24."
"An important characteristic of second breakdown in p-n junctions is the current constriction to a small region. This may be caused by a thermal feedback mechanism, which has been discussed by Scarlett and Shockley and by Bergmann and Gerstner. A brief review of this theory will be given and illustrated by experimental results of a simple model arrangement consisting of three thermally coupled transistors. The essential parameters influencing the thermal stability of the current distribution are device geometry, power density, and temperature dependence of current."
"The analysis of second breakdown in transistors is very difficult when one takes into account the distributed nature of the transistor and the complex interactions of the charge carriers with the crystal lattice and with the various electric fields within the transistor. A simple model has recently been developed which can be analyzed in detail in terms of lumped transistor parameters. The model treats the transistor as though it consisted of two separate, but interacting, parts coupled thermally and electrically. All anamolous portions of the transistor are lumped into one of these. The relative importance of each of the initiating mechanisms which have been hypothesized for second breakdown can now be determined. This paper presents a brief static analysis of the model. Calculated static current-voltage characteristics are shown for some of the initiating mechanisms. The effect of the current dependence of current gain, the effect of the temperature dependence of the collector saturation current, and the effects of avalanche multiplication and its dependence on free charge carrier density will be discussed. It is concluded that all of these effects are important, but one or the other will tend to dominate depending on the transistor structure, type of defects present, and mode of operation. Experimental evidence of a change in the dominant mechanism during swept operation in second breakdown will be shown."
"The existence of a \"new high current mode of transistor operation\", now generally known as second breakdown, was first reported by Thornton and Simmons in 1958 and was used to explain the mysterious failures that were observed to occur under certain operating conditions. Since then, with the production of higher power and higher frequency transistors, the problems resulting from the existence of second breakdown have proliferated. Interest in the phenomenon has grown concurrently and many papers about second breakdown can be found in the literature. These papers cover a range of interest that extends from theoretical studies of the basic mechanisms involved to interpretations of specifications for transistor operation free of second breakdown. A complete understanding of second breakdown has not yet been achieved and several concepts of second breakdown prevail. The purpose of this paper is to review the work that has been reported in order to present a coherent and comprehensive picture of the present status of second breakdown."
"Maximum power dissipation of transistors is limited by a thermal switchback of the VCEresulting often in a complete melting of a small area of the device even under conditions of maximum thermal conduction between collector junction and case. This thermal switchback occurs when an isolated area of the transistor, because of normal random variations of electrical behavior, or of non-uniform electrical conductivity, or of a physical defect, draws higher currents than other regions; this increase in current density will heat the small area; the VBE, having a negative temperature coefficient, will decrease. As a result IBwill increase followed by a much larger increase in IC. This rapid heating avalanche will cause the thermal runaway and eventually a burning out of the isolated area."
"This paper reports experimental measurements on second breakdown behavior of transistors which were altered from conventional structure so as to allow the addition of externally mounted, variable resistors to a finely divided emitter. It is found that forward-biased second breakdown can be eliminated so as to allow a typical four to six fold increase in the power available at high voltages. With suitable resistances, the safe-power vs. voltage curve becomes a straight line, allowing the transistor power dissipation to be thermally limited at all voltages rather than second break limited at higher voltages."
"The phenomena of second breakdown in epitaxial planar transistors has been observed to fall into two distinct categories. The first and most widely discussed occurs in the forward biased, active region of the transistor at collector voltages at or below the collector-emitter sustaining voltage. This type is generally believed to be a thermally induced second breakdown resulting from local regenerative heating, tt is characterized by an abrupt reduction in the collector voltage and an associated time constant of several microseconds to many milliseconds. This type of second breakdown can be observed in all types of transistors. The second type of second breakdown, which will be the subject of this paper, has been observed only in epitaxial transistors, particularly those with relatively thin or high resistivity epitaxial skins. This type of second breakdown occurs only at collector voltages in excess of the collector-emitter sustaining voltages. The collapse of collector voltage is characterized by delay and fall times on the order of a nanosecond. The phenomenon is initiated only when the emitter is injecting."
"A failure mechanism is described that accounts for the degradation of the reverse characteristics of germanium alloyed junctions when pulsed in the reverse direction. This mechanism involves both surface breakdown and secondary breakdown. Visible avalanche breakdown emission has been observed at localized spots onreverse biased N+P junctions. Failure during pulsing always occurs at one of these spots. This observation together with the results of other experiments have shown that surface treatments commonly used during manufacturing leave the surface of NPN transistors with anti-channeling surface breakdown sites, This is not true, in general, for PNP alloy transistors."
"At constant forward or reverse base currents the pulse length of a collector current pulse, which forces the transistor into secondary breakdown, is measured. For all transistors measured we plotted the logarithm of the collector pulse length,\\log\\Delta t, versus collector pulse height, with base current as a parameter. According to our observations one can discern between three types of transistors as far as their secondary breakdown behaviour is concerned. 1. Good epitaxial ones show a linear dependence of\\log \\Delta tto Ic with a negative slope. The curves for reverse base current are displaced parallel to the ones for forward base current, the energy of the pulses not being much different for both cases. 2. Bad epitaxial ones show an S shaped curve\\log \\Delta tversus Ic for reverse base currents. The dip occurs mostly between 100 and 300mA collector current. These transistors fail in practical circuits where a reverse base current is allowed to flow. 3. For homogeneous material the\\log \\Deltatversus Ic curves for all base currents practically coincide. For devices with a small collector series resistance the emitter to collector voltage just prior to the occurrence of secondary breakdown is practically a constant, regardless of collector current. Measurements of secondary breakdown characteristics as a function of case temperature have been performed. A discussion of the results will be presented."
"This paper describes the development of non-destructive second-breakdown measuring techniques and equipment. Such apparatus is vital for analysis of the \"safe area of operation\" of transistors for device development and particular circuit application. The new technique is useful for detecting second breakdown in both the forward-biased and the reverse-biased mode. When a transistor is operated in the forward-biased mode, hot spots may develop which produce second breakdown if temperature extremes are reached. With existing detection methods, the device may already have been damaged before this condition is recognized. A technique for electronic detection of hot spots before such degradation occurs is illustrated and compared to phosphorus ultraviolet and infrared scanning techniques. When this new technique is used, transistors can be characterized for forward-biased \"safe area of operation\" for applications such as audio output stages, series regulators, and class AB linear rf power amplifiers."
"This paper describes a novel two-helix 1 Gc traveling-wave tube designed to increase electronic efficiency by means of enhanced bunching of the electron beam. The tube incorporates a jump in electron beam velocity as well as a phase jump of the circuit wave, both adjustable for optimum tube performance. An efficiency with collector and first helix at the same potential of 44% has been measured in two-stage operation compared to 26% in single stage operation. Further improvements are expected by employing collector depression techniques. The saturated output power in the two-stage regime was 8 watts, representing a gain of 28 db. The harmonic content at saturation was extremely low, being less than 2% of the total output power."
"The objective of the work reported here is to substantially advance the efficiency capability of traveling-wave tubes. This has been pursued with the combination of two concepts. One is velocity tapering, designed to resynchronize the phase velocity of the circuit with the beam velocity at large signal levels. The other is a voltage step by which electron beam bunching is enhanced. This is explained by a stronger than usual coupling of the fast space-charge wave to the circuit in the driver section. This made it possible to achieve electronic efficiencies in excess of 40% and efficiencies approaching 60% could be achieved with single-stage collector depression. A coupled-cavity circuit at X-band without a sever was used in a demountable apparatus to facilitate variations of the test conditions. The collector included a secondary electron trap and provided an accurate analysis of the velocity distribution of the spent beam. The optimum design parameters, such as positioning, magnitude, and length of the tapers were determined and the results compared to those obtained by a large signal computer analysis."
"This paper describes a 35 watt, CW, X-band traveling-wave tube for satellite applications. The prototype models have demonstrated in excess of 35 watts over the frequency range of 7 to 8 Gcs with a minimum saturation gain of 41 db. Overall efficiency in excess of 29% has also been obtained. Under broadband conditions, the minimum saturated power output is 35 watts from 4.2 to 9.0 Gcs with the saturation gain varying from 28 db at the low end of the band to 43 db at 7.3 Gcs. The overall efficiency under these conditions is in excess of 27.7%."
"A low-noise traveling-wave tube has been developed which operates over the two-octave band from 2 to 8 Gc. Typical rf characteristics are 10 dbm saturation power output with 8 db noise figure and 27 db small-signal gain. Gain variation of ± 2 db across the full band is achieved by the use of a severed helix with the output section operating at 450 volts, approximately twice the voltage of the input section. This allows the output helix voltage to be optimized for gain flatness and/or power output, while the input helix is set to the voltage for minimum noise figure. Beam current at the 10-milliwatt level is 500 µa. With the beam current reduced to 125 µa, noise figure of less than 6 db can be obtained over the full two octaves. Rf coupling to the helix is by means of a novel cavity transducer which permits input and output VSWR of less than 1.8. The complete amplifier, with integral power supply, is housed in a 4.5-inch diameter by 12-inch long package weighing 17 pounds, and is designed to comply with MIL-E-5400 environmental specifications."
"Helix-type traveling-wave tubes are known for their potential multi-octave bandwidth capability. However, at bandwidths of the order of 2:1 or greater, the power output spectrum of typical amplifiers consists of the input frequency and its harmonics. If the input signal is located near the low frequency edge of the amplification band, the second and third harmonic powers become appreciable and may exceed that of the fundamental. Hence, the fundamental efficiency is seriously degraded and the multi-frequency output spectrum seriously deteriorates broadband systems performance."
"The traveling-wave tube has become an important circuit component for both military and commercial electronic equipment. Currently, however, most of the applications of the traveling-wave tube are restricted to a single major function: rf amplification with fixed gain characteristics accommodated by a single set of rf couplers. This paper describes a novel type of traveling-wave tube which differs from the conventional traveling-wave tube in that it fulfills several important functions independently and simultaneously. The device contains two independent rf output circuits rather than a simple output coupler within the same amplifier package; one circuit provides the usual octave gain and power capabilities of the traveling-wave tube, and an additional output circuit having less rf gain can be designed for a number of other useful system applications. This property, for example, can be designed to enable the device to accommodate a wide range of signal strengths such as encountered in the search and tracking functions of a radar receiver."
"Intermodulation and crossmodulation distortion are items of special interest in connection with the two-signal operation of traveling-wave tubes. The traveling-wave tube is a non-linear device which exhibits power saturation, limiting effects, and also exhibits a change in relative phase shift as a function of signal input drive. Theoretical expressions are developed for two-signal third and fifth-order intermodulation products from a power series expansion of the single-signal amplitude transfer function. Experimental data have been obtained On many existing high-efficiency medium-power and low-noise tubes. To study the effects that traveling-wave tube design parameters have on distortion phenomena, several specially-designed tubes have been constructed and tested. The experimental tubes, each a distinct version of the 2-\\frac{1}{2}watt PPM focused L-band high-efficiency traveling-wave tube, were constructed with one or more of the following features: high perveance, low perveance, tapered helix (both compressed and expanded), uniform severed helix, and severed helix with pitch change. Single-reversal and PPM focusing methods are compared directly on the same tube."
"The simultaneous amplification of multiple carrier signals is an important aspect of efficient space communication. In space-ground transmission links, the transmitting amplifier must therefore exhibit both high conversion efficiency as well as low distortion. Two significant types of distortion which tend to decrease the transmission channel efficiency are crosstalk and intermodulation distortion. Both space telemetry and tracking systems, as well as communication satellites, benefit from improvements in this area. In this paper, the results of an experimental study program are described in which the objective was to determine those factors which maximize the distortion-efficiency product of a traveling-wave tube amplifier. The simultaneous amplification of two phase-modulated carriers was studied as a function of tube design and signal parameters."
"Recent developments in high quality silicon varactors for low-noise parametric amplifiers and high-efficiency harmonic generators necessitate the use of epitaxial silicon layers that are thinner than 10 microns, with resistivity less than 1 Ω-cm. This paper extends Breitschwerdt's recent calculations to such thin epitaxial layers and also includes the calculation of series resistance and capacitance per unit area in a range useful for microwave diode design."
"The pump modulation factors m of various GaAs and Si varactor diodes have been measured under operating conditions. The device used for the measurements was a phase sensitive degenerate parametric amplifier with a signal frequency of 5.85 Gc phase locked with a pump frequency at 11.7 Gc. The input impedance of the amplifier varies with relative phase of pumped elastance (\\theta p) and signal current (\\theta s) according to ZV= RS+\\frac{S_{o}}{J\\omega_{s}} + {mS_{o}}{\\omega_{S}}e^{J(\\theta_{P}-2\\theta_{S})}The locus of the impedance is a circle which can be plotted directly on a Smith chart. The radius of this circle yields the modulation factor."
"Maximum power output and maximum efficiency are generally conflicting goals in the design of harmonic generator varactors. This incompatibility arises from the fact that high power requires a high reverse breakdown voltage and therefore inherently high resistivity material, whereas high efficiency requires minimization of losses and hence low resistivity material. However, both goals may be simultaneously approached by the series connection, within a single package of 2 or more appropriately chosen, low loss, lower voltage, varactor dice. In initial experiments, GaAs surface barrier dice of 30 volts breakdown have been employed, series connecting up to 4 dice in one package. Tested in a 4-to-12 Gc tripler, an 18-fold increase in output power was achieved, for the 4-dice unit as compared to a single junction. The efficiency decreased only slightly, from 72% to 65%. Further results with diffused GaAs and Si dice will be described, as well as a novel package design which affords large heat dissipation, small package dimensions, and integration of other active or passive devices."
"Microwave measurements on epitaxial gallium arsenide varactors have shown that a wide variation in varactor quality is obtained for different epitaxial wafers even though other crystal and diode parameters are equivalent. Using Houlding's technique for measuring cut-off frequency, the relation between microwave resistance and junction capacity was determined. The linear relation obtained between resistance and reciprocal junction capacity showed a fairly constant loss component of one ohm in addition to the area dependent component. Calculations of diode resistance based on actual geometry show wide discrepancy between calculated value and area dependent component. The extra resistance may be accounted for by the presence of a thin, high resistivity layer contributing extra loss at the measurement frequency of 10 GHz. Measurements were also made on varactors made from homogeneous gallium arsenide andfrom epitaxial silicon. Comparative data will be shown."
"The paper describes a novel design technique for high efficiency microwave frequency doublers using a varactor diode. In the design technique the design parameters are derived analytically from Manley and Rowe's energy relations. First, the current and voltage of the varactor diode are represented by Fourier series as functions of the charge. Then the real and reactive powers of the varactor diode are evaluated as functions of the charge. From the real and reactive powers and from the current in the varactor diode at the fundamental frequency and the second harmonic, we derive the characteristic impedances of the frequency doubler's microwave structure for \"matched\" operation; furthermore, we derive the input and output powers and the distances between the varactor diode and the filters that reject the fundamental frequency and the second harmonic. These design parameters are all expressed as functions of the charge on the varactor diode."
"The use of thin epitaxial layers in conjunction with planar Schottky barrier junctions on GaAs has produced very high \"Q\" microwave devices. With the barrier metal extended over a SiO2layer this \"expanded\" contact is wire-bonded to eliminate the metal springs that are found in the very small mesa structures or point contact diodes of conventional construction. Fabricated as a microwave mixer diode, typical noise figures of 5.0 to 5.5 db overall are measured at room temperature for X-band, including 1.5 db for the 30 Mc. IF amplifier. The best downconverter operation is obtained at 0.5 to 0.6 volts forward bias with the local oscillator injection power reduced to less than 200 microwatts. The mixer diode has also been fabricated in a small symmetrical package to permit application at various frequencies. State-of-the-art measurements will be given for frequencies into Ku band."
"Substantial improvement in the reliability of the surface-barrier diode has been achieved by using planar techniques. The Kahng-Lepselter structure uses a multiple layer metal contact sealed to an overlay over the oxide. Both copper and palladium silicide diodes with titanium-platinum or \"chromium-platinum overlays have survived 100 hour stress aging at 360°C in air and aging in one atmosphere of steam at 350°C on open headers."
"The problems about second breakdown can be discussed in three parts: 1) Causes of localized high temperatures in the crystal, 2) Mechanism of voltage drop, 3) Physical state of the crystal after the voltage drop, i.e. the state of the second breakdown, when it is stable and reversible. About point 1) today very much is known. Point 2) cannot be discussed independent of point 3). In regard to point 3) three models have been published: 1. English and Power (1963). A small stable molten zone exists in the crystal. Visual observations (mesoplasmas) have led to this theory. Approximations show, that such a state is possible without destroying the transistor or the diode. 2. Melchior and Strutt (1964). High carrier densities occur at high temperatures and reduce the space charge in the junction in two steps with respect to the different impurity densities on both sides of the junction. This reduction causes the voltage drop. These temperatures are far below the melting point. 3. Weitzsch (1965). A small molten channel exists between the collector and the emitter in transistors or between the low-resistivity zone and the metal in diodes. More accurate calculations with rotational elliptic coordinates show the possibility of realizing such a state. For the model 3. we have sufficients calculation. With respect to the present discussion new calculation will be shown for the models 1. and 2. With the aid of the results and if specific experiments are made, it should be possible to come to conclusion. The results will be presented presented qualitatively only. The calculation themselves will be published in an article."
"Capacitor structures with non-shorting breakdowns are considered. Three kinds of breakdown events occur: single -- hole, propagating and total breakdown. Single hole breakdowns are due to thermal instability at weak spots. Destruction occurs by evaporation of a crater in the silicon, of an adjoining hole of about 1 µ diameter through the silicondioxyde and a much larger hole in the metal electrode. Energy for evaporation is provided by discharge of the capacitor. Examination of thermal balance shows that only a smaller part of the energy stored in the capacitor causes destruction and the larger part heats the silicon. Some breakdown events occur within 100 nsec, accompanied by non destructive avalanche breakdown in the silicon. Other breakdown events take a few µsec, connected with discharge of charge stored at the silicon- oxyde interface. Current densities around 108A/cm2occur in the breakdown arc. Form of destruction is very different in the metallic electrode for positive and negative metal. In the former case electron bombardment and in the latter case Joule heating seem to cause evaporation."
"A study was conducted to determine the effect on second breakdown of crystallographic defects dectectable by means of x-ray diffraction microscopy. The susceptibility of second breakdown of about 1500 epitaxial planar silicon transistors diffused on two wafers was measured and the site of the current constriction of second breakdown was registered on most of these transistors. These data were compared with x-ray topographs which indicated the kind and location of defects existing initially and those that were introduced during fabrication. Any effect of these defects was masked by other factors, such as surface induced effects, that were not discernible in the x-ray topographs. The heating at the second breakdown current construction site to temperature above 600°C and recrystallized laser-induced melt regions smaller than about 25 µm in diameter produced no crystallographic changes nor any frozen-in strain fields detectable in the x-ray topographs. Comments will be made about the significance to the second breakdown problem of these and other results obtained from this study."
"The study of the mesoplasma as the fundamental model for second breakdown has been pursued by a variety of physical techniques. The conviction that a melt forms at or near the junction was strengthened by the microscopic, observation of molten globules of silicon on silicon diode surfaces under certain experimental conditions. Lapping and staining techniques were used to search the junction region for evidence of various kinds of damage and for information on the size and shape of regions affected by heat. The time dependence of light emission from the mesoplasma region in relation to electrical changes was studied. The light emission lags behind the onset of second breakdown and lingers on after the current through the device is shut off. Some work was done on the temperature dependence of the electrical characteristics of second breakdown. As far as possible, an attempt has been made to compare the physical results with the quantitative predictions of a computed model, with rather satisfactory correlations."
"Recent work at this Laboratory has indicated that the energy dependence of semiconductor devices with respect to secondary breakdown can be explained on the basis of transient thermal resistance. A new method of measuring transient thermal resistance in the avalanche mode will be described as well as the resultant characteristics. The results indicate that the thermal time constants of transistors is much shorter than heretofore recognized. A similar exercise will be presented for voltage regulator diodes. In addition, a simple technique will be described which significantly increases the thermal time constant of these devices. Similar changes are envisioned for other semiconductor devices."
"The use of high frequency silicon power transistors with interdigitated comb emitter structure was successful for proving the essential features of the theory of lateral thermal instability and second breakdown. For a more detailed study of the appearance of hot spots and their relationship to the onset of second breakdown, the use of a simpler structure looked advisable. This paper describes an uncomplicated geometry which offers many possibilities for modifications. Calculations, experimental data and photographs are presented which show the means by which second breakdown and possible burn-out occurs after the formation of a hot spot. In particular, measurements demonstrate the localized thermal runaway in the collector-base diode and the relationship to the presence of the emitter. The role of the emitter and base layer resistances as well as the resistance of the contacting metal layers (series and contact resistance) in reducing the thermal instability is shown. The shorted emitter structure proved to be a successful method to postpone or even avoid the appearance of second breakdown. The tool for the determination of current and voltage distributions within the small silicon structures was a potential microprobing apparatus with a resolution of 2 microns."
"The dependence of turnover characteristics IM, VM, TMand EMof N+N N+plate contact Si device upon the applied condition was investigated. The dimensions of the device were: N-layer thickness ≃ 210µ, N+layer thickness ≃ 20µ, diameter\\simeq - 1.0mmΦ, and Pb solder-layer thickness = 250 ∼ 300µ. The N layer has the resistivity of four groups, ranging from 3 to 220 ohm-cm. Applied voltage has a waveform with a linearly rising part and an adjoining flat part. When the applied voltage is increased, IMincreases. whereas TM, and EMdecrease. We designate this effect the varying characteristics. When the applied voltage is higher, IM, TM, and EMsaturate and reach the saturated values of IMS, TMS, and EMS. In this case the applied voltage has a constant value of the slope. The saturated characteristics of IMS, TMS, and EMSwere also studied by varying the slope of the applied voltage. The significance of turnover phenomenon in the device consists in the resemblance to second breakdown (SB) in the transistor as shown in the previous report. The report showed that SB characteristics varied considerably with the applied conditions and were characterized by the varying and saturated effects. This may indicate that SB is not a peculiar phenomenon to the transistor, but is also applicable to the semiconductor itself."
"New understandings are suggested concerning the mechanism of secondary breakdown of transistor, measured by different structural double diffused silicon transistors. After approximately one tenth of BVCEO was applied to the testing transistor by the constant voltage source, increasing the base current to flow the collector current sufficiently in order to enter into the secondary breakdown, the trigger current of the secondary breakdown IM is proportional rather to the emitter area than the emitter to base periphery length."
"The dependence of the transition time between avalanche breakdown and second breakdown on the input power to a p-n junction was studied. Second breakdown was observed both in transistor configurations and in single junction structures. Fine structure inthe breakdown was also observed. Specimens at temperatures of 77°K and 300°K were pulsed with a fast-rising rectangular voltage obtained by standard coaxial line techniques. The voltage across the sample and the current through it are monitored, and clearly show the effects of second breakdown. The transition time between avalanche and second breakdown was easily measured. The transition time is observed to decrease with increased input power. For operation at 77°K, a longer transition time was observed than that for similar input at 300°K. The dependence of the transition time on the input power indicates a constant input energy for which second breakdown occurs. It is deduced that second breakdown is caused by a thermal breakdown of the depletion region. The constant energy required and related occurrence of melt channels in the junction region supports this deduction."
"Low and stable surface state densities can be achieved on silicon devices with thermally-grown SiO2. Such systems are however extremely sensitive to contaminants, such as sodium. The addition of a phosphosilicate glass layer to the top of thermally-grown SiO2provides comparable initial oxide properties and also excellent protection against sodium contamination. For this work MOS diodes were fabricated with phosphorus-glassed SiO2. Some were purposely contaminated with a dilute solution of NaOH before contact deposition (\\sim 10^{15}Na ions/cm2). Others were processed routinely. Neither of these groups of MOS diodes showed the typical increase of surface states during thermal compression wire bonding. Approximately1 \\times 10^{11}further states/cm2were introduced during temperature-field aging for uncontaminated diodes; contaminated diodes showed slightly more. As a control, ordinary thermally-grown SiO2was contaminated with the same NaOH solution. Na contaminated thermally-grown SiO2showed approximately5 \\times 10^{12}states/cm2introduced during wire bonding and a further 1013states/cm2during temperature-field aging."
"The secondary breakdown is most serious problem in transistor failure, especially in switching circuit with inductive load. In this paper, is analyzed the secondary breakdown by thermal conception. The transient junction temperature rise is determined by the transient thermal resistance measured by a new method suggested in this paper. Then, the secondary breakdown in base open condition is analyzed by increase of the collector saturation current ICEO due to junction temperature rise. And the delay time of secondary breakdown that is the time for I to increase by 120% as much as initial collector current is calculated for germanium transistor. On the other hand, the experiment to measure the delay time is made under the same condition as in calculation, and it is shown that the result agrees with the calculated result. Furthermore, the secondary breakdown in base reverse bias condition and turnover mechanism of collector output characteristic in switching circuit with inductive load are explained by current crowding effect. And the secondary breakdown in silicon transistor is also supposed to be caused by the same thermal mechanism. Finally, the temperature characteristic of secondary breakdown is obtained and it is also analyzed by increase of ICEO due to junction temperature rise."
"An MOS tetrode has been developed to operate at low power dissipations (typical drain currents from 2 to 5 milliamperes and drain voltage of 6 volts) for use in communications receivers operating in the frequency band from 30 to 76 megacycles per second. Power gains in excess of 20 dB have been obtained at 100 megacycles per second with noise figures in the 2-to-4-dB range. Two gates are provided for signal input and agc control. The agc gate operates in a reverse-biased condition. The device offers excellent crossmodulation distortion characteristics, large dynamic range, and low dissipation, and operates over a 40-dB agc range in an rf circuit. It has very low feedback, together with a high gate-breakdown field (greater than 107volts per centimeter) to resist burn-out. The dual full-gate structure provides excellent voltage and temperature stability during cutoff and storage life-tests. This paper discusses device characterization and design."
"Radioactive Na24distribution has been measured and correlated with MOS electrical data in over 20 samples of 6000 Å of SiO2grown by conventional wet oxidation of 10 ohm-cm phosphorus doped silicon. Neutron activation by a high flux of thermal neutrons at 50°C maximum showed that total Na was less than 1017cm-3in oxide grown in a conventional bubbled-oxygen all-quartz system. Edges were removed and sectioning done by etching. Planarity of sectioning was verified by uniformity of interference colors. Gamma-ray spectrometry and both radiotracer Na24and neutron activation were used. Sections as thin as 250 Å could be counted."
"The plane of the drain characteristics of the MOST is divided into three regions: cut-off. (I), conduction beyond (II) and below (III) pinch-off. The large-signal operation of the device is represented by a non-linear equivalent circuit, derived from C. T. Sah's small-signal equivalent circuit, where the current source is modified in order to describe the drain characteristics of the device in the three regions. A basic inverter circuit is used for switching analysis. The amplitude of the voltage step applied to the input is sufficient to drive the MOST from region I to II or III and vice versa. Both the turn-on and turn-off times are expressed as sums of two terms: a delay and a switching time. The delay is due to the gate to drain capacitance which causes a fraction of the input step to appear at the output: the delay is defined as the time required for the output voltage to recover its initial value. The switching times are defined at the 90% at the output voltage excursion. While the turn-off transient lends itself to a very simple analysis, the turn-on transient may consist of two parts (in case region III is reached): a constant current transient (region II) followed by a transient (region III) where a square-law current -- voltage relationship applies. The analysis leads to rather complex formulae: a normalized diagram is supplied for quick calculations. Experimental results are shown. Finally the intrinsic parameters and the external variables affecting the switching behavior of the device are summarized."
"Space-charge-limited currents (SCLC) of electrons and holes have been studied in P+NP+ and N+PN+ two terminal structures in both germanium and silicon (Shockley, Dacey, Ross, Shumka, Nicolet). When a third terminal has been applied to the \"floating base\" region of these structures operating under \"punch-through\" conditions, modulation of the SCLC was found to be very ineffective. Using epitaxial techniques, a multi-layer SCLC triode has been constructed with a high resistivity base layer between two high resistivity N layers to form a N+NPNN+ structure. Under space-charge-limited current operation one diode (source) is biased forward by the voltage across the entire structure. When a reverse bias is applied to this junction by a contact made to the P-layer (gate), effective modulation of the SCLC current is obtained. This reverse bias applied to the P-layer can thus be utilized as a high impedance gate-electrode."
"Summary form only, given as follows. Solid structure germanium tunnel diodes have been fabricated in slice form by standard semiconductor techniques, These devices represent successful conclusion of a program to improve tunnel diode reliability, provide for adaption to integrated circuitry and lower costs while maintaining or improving the electrical characteristics of present microwave tunnel diodes. Series resistance of these diodes is inherently very low permitting a closely controlled resistance to be added in series to assure uniform operating stability. Construction consists of evaporating alloy material and masking by photolithographic techniques; post alloy passivation and junction support is deposited by evaporation; reliable expanded contacts complete the basic structure. Design criteria, fabrication parameters and procedures for electrical evaluation of devices on the slice for use in processing will be detailed. Diode parameter spread is characteristically small on any slice. However variation of fabrication permits realization of Ip/Cv ratios from 0.01 to 7 ma/pf and resistive cutoff frequencies to 50 GHz. Electrical and mechanical parameters as well as resistance to environmental extremes and techniques for extension of these procedures to form microwave circuit components on the slice will be described."
"Many new microwave systems need detector diodes with large differential sensitivity, low change of output voltage with ambient temperature, low noise, and long-term stability. An alloyed junction (pulse-bonded) germanium backward diode has been developed which is superior to point-contact detector diodes for these applications. This diode has a differential sensitivity of 8 mV/db with an average output voltage of 60 mV into a 100 ohm load, and a temperature coefficient of 9 µV/°C with an input power of -4 dbm at 11 Gc/s. Noise measurements indicate this diode has about 20 db less 1/f noise than point-contact diodes. The diode has a junction capacitance of about 0.1 pf, a negative resistance of 1000 ohms and a series resistance of 8 ohms."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"It has been shown that Forward Acting Automatic Gain Control (FAAGC) is able to suppress the intermodulation (IM) products caused by rapid fading, particularly in the case of single sideband (SSB) transmission at UHF. Envelope detectors were used for simplicity, but since typical existing SSB systems use synchronous (or homodyne) detectors and a regenerated carrier, comparative analyses and tests with these detectors have now been made. It turns out that with synchronous detectors, little or no IM suppression is available, therefore, if FAAGC is to be used in a partially suppressed carrier SSB system, it is recommended that the carrier be enhanced at the receiver so that envelope detectors can still be used."
"This paper deals not with invention or research and development, but with the state of the art in Communication Control Centers, particularly with respect to the basic design of control consoles and status displays. Developments in these fields are so interrelated that it is difficult to give consideration to one without including the other. Status display systems are generally operated from the dispatcher's position at the main control console and thus, actuating devices, when required, become a part of this structure."
"Subsequent to its decision in March of 1964 in Docket No. 11997 which retained the present eighty-two channel television allocation, the Federal Communications Commission has taken several actions and is actively considering a number of other proposals which, together or singly, show promise of affording varying degrees of spectrum relief for the burgeoning land mobile services. These actions, together with related studies of frequency occupancy and utilization undertaken by the Commission, are discussed."
"This paper will discuss the proposed new EIA standard for portable communications equipment. It will review the various sections of the standard and discuss the new methods of measurement unique to portable and the limits proposed in the standard. It will compare the measurement techniques specified for portables to existing mobile standards and highlight the differences. It will delve into the philosophies developed in the various subcommittees which contributed to the standard. Those items that are unique to the portable standard as compared to existing mobile standards will be reviewed in depth. Such items are methods of measuring size, weight, battery life, battery test voltage, open field measurement on sensitivity and power output, drop test, and duty cycle. These items represent some new philosophies which are very interesting. Some typical examples of measurements made using the standard will be analyzed in measuring a new 450 MC Two Way Portable."
"This paper describes a proposed multi-channel mobile telephone communications system designed to meet Canadian Telephone Company system requirements. Some of the requirements satisfied by this system are maximum channel loading and automatic channel selection with a mobile equipment cost marginally higher than that of the standard mobile radio telephone. The paper will describe a mobile equipment designed for this system together with a description of the equipment modules required to utilize standard mobile and fixed station equipment in this system. The primary objective of A.M.T.S. is to allow maximum subscriber loading within the limits of the 1 to 11 contiguous channels available in the 150 mc mobile telephone service band. Because it has been possible to meet this objective without materially increasing the capital investment per subscriber, relative to present systems employing manual channel selection, it is felt that the A.M.T.S. concept may be of interest in other areas of North America."
"Optimum useage of the spectrum can only occur if the problems are appreciated and intelligent solutions pursued. In particular transmitter splatter, impulse noise, and intermodulation have been treated in some detail. It is shown that under a different set of conditions each of the above factors may be the limiting factor on system performance. Comparisons are made between FM, SSB and AM, where appropriate. Other interference factors such as transmitter noise, and frequency stability are briefly considered. Channel splitting is discussed briefly in the light of the above problems."
"The multipath interference to FM transmission of television between vehicles moving over a flat Earth is analyzed. The paper starts with the derivation of the direct path and multipath signals. In this derivation an induction formula is obtained for the RF spectrum of a signal which is produced by frequency modulating with N modulating frequencies. It is pointed out that the direct path signal alone may result in a picture size change and an amplitude modulation interference. The direct and multipath signals are added and processed by the receiver. The multipath interference appears in the video output in a direct but complex form. In the case of a small multipath reflection coefficient the interference form becomes simpler. For this case a signal-to-interference ratio is derived. The results provide both a measure of the TV quality and the basis for an extended analysis. The analysis is applicable to FM transmission of any intelligence possessing a countable spectrum."
"This paper is a discussion of a remotely controlled VHF Marine Radiotelephone designed for installation on boats which operate along the coasts, on inland rivers and lakes, as well as transoceanic vessels. This equipment provides simultaneous monitoring on three of the twenty-nine channels presently available. Basic design and construction are discussed."
"In order to realize its full utilization, two-way mobile radio must follow the people who use it into their working environment; thus, we find more and more radio-equipped people in subways, missile silos, serving the factory assembly line or reporting on convention proceedings. Similarly, radio-equipped vehicles such as subway trains and mine hoists, in a natural underground environment, are examples of the fact that radio coverage must be extended nearly everywhere. The unusual characteristics of these environments, and means to adapt radio to them in providing continuous communication, are discussed."
"The Singapore Component of the Royal Malaysia Police recently undertook a modernization program to replace its existing VHF-AM communication system with a new one offering a greater degree of reliability and coverage along with extreme flexibility and simplicity of operation. In consultation with the communications personnel of the Singapore Component of the Royal Malaysia Police, the Radio Corporation of America developed the system to meet the following requirements: 1. The entire mobile communication system would be for three separate networks with 92 operational mobile stations in the 460-470 mc region. 2. Each network would include two fully equipped radio controlled base stations, the second station operating as a \"hot\" standby station at a second location to minimize security risk. 3.Switchover to standby for one net was to be accomplished without affecting the other two nets. Similarly, switchover to standby of any component in the control station (receiver, transmitter or line amplifier) was to be accomplished without affecting any of the other components within that net. 4.Each network would De under the control of a separate console, with provisions in each console for assuming operational control of either or both the other two nets, the transfer of control to be accomplished in such a way as not to drop a net. 5. All consoles would be of the passive type, consisting only of switches, keys, lamps and meters necessary for the intended operational control functions. All line amplifiers and relays which might, in the course of time, give rise to a service problem, were to be located elsewhere to insure full use of the system, even while service work is in progress. 6. All equipment was to be mounted in dust and insect proof cabinets and capable of providing normal service under ambient temperatures between 75° F and 120° F and relative humidity of at least 90%. 7. To fully utilize space on antenna tower shared by several other Singapore communication services, the outputs of all three network transmitters would be combined in a single antenna with minimum interaction between transmitters despite frequency separations as small as 250 kc."
"This paper and the one following describe the application of ferrite circulators at VHF frequencies. A brief description of the non-reciprocal properties of ferrites is given along with a summary of the theoretical operation of a junction circulator. Several applications are briefly described in this paper in addition to the detailed description of a multiplexer in R. Klein's paper. A detailed bibliography on ferrite devices is included for those who wish to pursue the subject in greater depth."
"Tests were conducted to find a suitable means for connecting up to eight 250 watt, 150 MC base station transmitters to a common antenna. Terminated circulators and RF hybrids were employed for isolating and combining the transmitters. A practical circuit was developed and an eight transmitter multiplex system is now in commercial service."
"This paper describes a new approach to a noise operated squelch utilizing a desensitizing loop to sustain operation over short fades. This feature also provides a sharp demarkation between the operate and non-operate condition and minimizes \"squelch tail\". Another factor contributing to high performance is the use of an audio frequency desensitization input which prevents audio talk down during conditions of high modulation. The circuit is additionally stabilized to operate over the temperature range of -30°C to +80°C. In addition to the above, the paper describes one approach made to secure a squelch circuit capable of operation at high levels of quieting. Such operation is desirable for installations employing more than one base station receiver and using some means of selecting the receiver with the highest signal-to-noise ratio or where the range of operation is deliberately reduced for the sake of improved transmission quality at the fringes."
"A Duplexer design technique will be described which uses nominal size cavities and a single additional lump circuit element per cavity to produce transmitter to receiver isolations far greater than that produced by the cavities themselves. The lumped circuit element produces a notch in the cavity response curve which may be moved along the curve. The original design work on these duplexers was concentrated on units having approximately 5 Mc separation between the transmit and receive frequencies. It will be shown however that this design technique is applicable to other frequency separations. An antenna designed for duplex operation will also be described."
"Discussion covers the development and testing of a reference antenna to provide meaningful gain figures for measuring mobile antennas in the 150 and 450 mc bands. Gain data and patterns are shown for various designs of mobile antennas from comprehensive testing. Relations are established between a one-quarter wavelength whip and a one-half wavelength dipole. General and specific conclusions are stated on mobile gain antennas and their application."
"Reliability engineering has generally concerned itself with system failures caused by catastrophic failures of components. Given a stable system and known environment, existing technlques may give accurate predictions of the reliability of electronic systems. When mobile communication systems are analyzed, however, the available propagation conditions presented to equipment operated under extremely variable environmental conditions may cause reliability predictions to be quite inaccurate. The factors affecting actual reliability are discussed; means are examined for designing mobile communication equipment to achieve optimum results in each of these areas. Finally, a specific equipment design built around these techniques is discussed and life testing under simulated environmental conditions is examined."
"The design of a new line of 150 Mc and 450 Mc mobile radio equipment employing conduction cooled tubes in the transmitter is discussed. Battery drain during standby/transmit is minimized by the use of quick-heating filament tubes in the transmitter. The power supply uses silicon switching transistors to improve reliability under extreme temperature and duty cycle conditions."
"Integrated Circuit technology is reviewed by a survey of the characteristics of components available for both monolithic and hybrid construction. The component survey results in a list of guide lines to be used in designing linear integrated circuits; the guide lines are then employed to design a 60 mc IF amplifier."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes a modular magnetic logic technology compatible with the manufacturing machinery and process control requirements found in the automotive industry. The logic circuits employ only three components per module, a machine-wound ferrite toroidal core, a semiconductor diode, and a resistor."
"The criteria for proper ignition in the internal combustion engine require a great deal of discussion. The object of this paper is to relate the various parameters of the ideal discharge in a manner most useful to the reader. By way of introduction, a scope trace showing the voltage as a function of time of an operating spark gap is illustrated and described. Minimum and maximum ignition requirements are outlined, followed by a discussion of the ideal spark parameters which include the following: 1) gap width 2) duration of spark discharge 3) spark energy 4) spark voltage 5) spark current 6) direction of current flow 7) voltage rise time."
"Electric drives for vehicles have been the subject of much discussion within the past few years. One of the most intriguing aspects of electric drives is the power source itself and its effect upon the electric drive system. Will the system be the same for a fuel cell power source as it will be for batteries or rotating power sources? Will a fuel cell power source be more adaptable to a dc or an ac drive system? What effect, if any, will this new form of power have on the physical characteristics of a vehicle? There are many more questions that need answers."
"Magnetic logic systems provide two outstanding advantages over semiconductor logic systems. They are a parts savings of eighty per cent and an improvement in reliability due to the use of the ultrareliable magnetic devices. These two advantages alone make the application of magnetic logic techniques to machine control very desirable. In addition, machine control affords a low speed application wherein magnetic logic operates optimally."
"In order to control the speed of a dc series field motor at different required torque levels, it is necessary to adjust the voltage applied to the motor. For any particular constant voltage the motor speed is determined solely by the torque requirements and top speed is reached under minimum torque conditions. When a series motor is used as a traction drive for vehicles, it is desirable to control the voltage to the motor to fit the various torque requirements of grades, speed, and load. The common method of varying the speed of the motor is by inserting resistance in series with motor to reduce the supplied power. This type of motor speed control is very inefficient and wasteful of battery power due to the I<R>2</R>R loss, especially under high current, high torque conditions."
"A short range RF telemetry transmitter developed at the General Motors Proving Ground is used to obtain data from moving components on the test vehicle. It is capable of operation at acceleration levels to 1000 g's and temperatures to 300°F."
"The design of an inductive input filter for a rectifier requires a certain minimum value of inductance in order to have a continuous current in the inductor and, therefore, maintain good regulation. This value is known as the critical inductance. Overbeck determined the critical inductance as a function of firing angle in a controlled rectifier. In this paper we add a diode to the filter which provides a path for the inductor current in the prefiring interval of the controlled rectifiers. We show that for any fixed firing angle the critical value of inductance is reduced and, therefore, for a given inductor that the usable range of dc output is extended."
"The most powerful method of representing random stationary vibrations is based upon the power density spectrum or the mean square density spectrum. Among the many procedures devised to obtain this spectrum is an analog method described here which is particularly suitable for processes lasting some minutes or tens of minutes with frequencies ranging from less than one cycle per second to some thousands of cycles per second. First, the principle on which the procedure is based is described; then the block diagram is discussed with some information about the band filter, the squarer, and the integrating unit. The control logic unit is then described in detail; this unit permits complete automation of the chain. Lastly, some information about the performance of a chain practically built up is given and the degree of repeatability is discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In an inductive input filter for a rectifier-type power supply, critical inductance is the minimum value of inductance which will maintain a continuous current in the inductance. In the usual development of the critical inductance criterion, a small signal, or linear, concept of inductance is implied. Consider a ``swinging choke'' in which the inductance is allowed to vary with current due to saturation of the core; in this paper we show that if the inductance of a coil exceeds the critical value for some dc current I1, then the current in the inductance will be continuous for all values of dc current greater than I1even though the inductance may drop below the critical value. Thus, the size and weight of the inductor can be reduced below that of a coil designed to exceed critical inductance for all current greater than I1"
"The high adhesion of electrostatically deposited dust as compared to a mechanically pressed sample has been attributed to dipole characteristics of particles and alignment by the field. Recent tests show that if the dust is deposited as single particles and without an electric field a high adhesion is obtained. Other tests indicate that some particles behave like dipoles but most particles appear to have multiple positive and negative areas so that alignment by the field is limited. It appears that the high adhesion is due to Coulomb forces between adjacent particles but that an individual particle arriving at a surface can align itself without the aid of an external field."
"The disciplines of servomechanisms and process-control have been developed for many years. An inherent feature of their practical application was the use of analog components. In an attempt to integrate process-control instrumentation with digital computers and data-processing equipment, it has been necessary to develop new techniques. The underlying mathematical foundation for this treatment is the concept of a sampled-data control system utilizing z transforms."
"A properly designed charger for sealed lead batteries must not only control the current during normal charge, but it must also turn itself off or switch to a float condition when charge is complete; and it must be able to charge batteries which have a very high initial resistance because they have been overdischarged. Many different types of chargers have been developed in the effort to find one that is suitable, and several of them are described. The best results are obtained with a new solid-state charger described in this paper."
"Transistors can be operated as collector-base junction diode switches. In addition, the transistor emitter can be used to regulate the rectification, as a controlled rectifier. Connected in series with a saturable reactor, transistor-reactor network is analyezed as a magnetic amplifier, and characteristic rectified output waveforms are presented."
"A comprehensive account is given of the control of the ring magnet current for the 12.5 BeV Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) at Argonne National Laboratory. Pulsing power is supplied by a motor-generator-flywheel set via four groups of 12-phase rectifiers. The rectifier groups operate alternately as power rectifiers and power inverters as directed by their phase control circuits."
"The control equipment described in this paper has been designed to meet industry demands for electric drive units to adjust loads in the 100-3000 lb-ft torque range with accuracies comparable to those now possible for loads of up to 75 lb-ft. These demands have been accompanied by the now almost standard request that the results be achieved using low-maintenance solid-state equipment. Drive units for up to 75 lb-ft, such as that shown in Fig. 1(a), can be positioned to ± 0.25 percent or better."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Following the merger of the Institute of Radio Engineers and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the computer organizations within the two societies began discussions of the advantages which might be gained by merging the two similar activities. The new organization, 10000 strong, represents varied and active opinions. It is to be expected that the organization will grow steadily from a foundation represented by the documents published here."
"A graphical interpretation of the realization of symmetric Boolean functions with threshold logic elements is presented, from which a systematic synthesis method is developed. Theoretically, symmetric functions of any number of variables can be realized. Examples are given to show that, practically, there is no difficulty at all in realizing symmetric Boolean functions of as many as thirty or forty variables. Some theorems related to graphical interpretation and realization are presented, and the lower and upper bounds of the number of threshold logic elements required for the realization of symmetric functions are also derived from the graphical point of view."
"A logical design theory for ternary voltage switching circuits is developed. The theory is based on familiar binary switching circuit elements and simplification methods. The theory thus leads to simple electronic realization. The basic system of ternary switching elements consists of function realizable by means of either diode gates or a single triode (transistor)."
"A graphical interpretation of the realization of symmetric Boolean functions with threshold logic elements is presented, from which a systematic synthesis method is developed. Theoretically, symmetric functions of any number of variables can be realized. Examples are given to show that, practically, there is no difficulty at all in realizing symmetric Boolean functions of as many as thirty or forty variables. Some theorems related to graphical interpretation and realization are presented, and the lower and upper bounds of the number of threshold logic elements required for the realization of symmetric functions are also derived from the graphical point of view."
"A logical design theory for ternary voltage switching circuits is developed. The theory is based on familiar binary switching circuit elements and simplification methods. The theory thus leads to simple electronic realization. The basic system of ternary switching elements consists of function realizable by means of either diode gates or a single triode (transistor). Various simplification methods for combinational circuits are described, namely a map method and two algebraic methods. The first algebraic method is an adaptation of the Quine method for determining the prime implicants of a given binary function, and the second is a modification of the Scheinman binary method."
"A new computing element is described in which binary numbers are added by means of analog techniques. It is shown that when this element, which will be called a quantiser, is used, the design of arithmetic units for digital computers is considerably simplified. In particular, it is possible to build simple parallel adders and multipliers which do not require any external programming and which may be directly interconnected to form networks to carry out specific calculations. As these arithmetic units are self-contained the computing network may have any number of interconnected parallel paths, and so may simultaneously test many alternative hypotheses at any step in the computation. Experimental quantisers and methods of interconnecting them to form arithmetic units are described. Speed of operation and factors likely to limit performance are discussed."
"The disturbed incremental magnetization changes that accompany the read and write operations of coincident-current memories are the cause of a serious noise problem in the attainment of high-speed memory performance. This paper examines the noise problem. Relationships which express the memory driver tolerances in terms of the core characteristics are presented; the operating schmoo is evolved and from it the various schmoo responses are obtained and utilized for selection of optimum operating currents and sense amplifier threshold bias. A unique system for automatically exercising coincident-current magnetic core memory systems and visually displaying their performance characteristics is included. The instrumentation includes a versatile memory exerciser that not only subjects the memory under test to simulated conditions of computer operation, but also varies the driving currents into the stack over wide extremes and compares the resultant output signals to the information stored in the data register. Suitable synchronizing and display signals are provided to an oscilloscope which records each error as a momentary intensification of the electron beam as it sweeps the scope face. The resultant pattern is called a schmoo plot and as such provides a visual measure of performance of memory systems."
"An analytical method of designing recognition functions in self-organizing systems is discussed in this paper. A mathematical model is defined which embodies recognition and learning processes based on past experiences. The ``desired function'' is introduced as the most faithful expression of recognition functions based on past experiences, and it is shown how to design the recognition function whose mean-square error from the desired function is minimized. The desired function makes it possible to utilize the orthonormal relationship between certain functions of inputs, and this gives a very simple design procedure for recognition functions. Also, since the desired function is a probability function of past experiences, the problems of learning and education can be discussed on a quantitative basis. Two concepts, forced education and statistical classification, are used in combination with the minimization technique of the mean-square error, and this gives a simple design procedure to improve the approximation abilities. The approximation abilities of linear recognition functions are studied in this paper for all linearly separable Boolean functions with two through six inputs."
"A procedure for solving Lagrange's equations of motion by analog computation is discussed. The problem of summing loop instabilities is minimized because the coefficient matrix of the acceleration terms in the generalized force equations is positive definite. No computer instabilities occur if external generalized forces do not contain acceleration-dependent terms (from rubbing friction). A two-dimensional example is analyzed and it is concluded that the existence of such terms will rarely cause computer instability for realistic physical systems. This paper also includes special techniques for systems which are conservative, contain cyclic co-ordinates, or are subject to nonholonomic or holonomic constraint equations."
"R.M. Karp, author of \"Some Techniques of State Assignment for Synchronous Sequential Machines,\" which appeared on pages 507-518 of the October, 1964, issue of these Transactions, notes corrections on page 511, column 1, line 36, and on page 517, \"(2a)-(2d)\" should be replaced by \"a, b, c, and d\" in the following places: column 1, 5 lines from the bottom, column 2, lines 1-2, line 25, and line 28."
"Threshold functions and statistical recognition have been the subjects of many papers and, although the threshold functions have frequently been used as a logic implementation in empirical studies of pattern recognition [1], most, if not all, of the reported theoretical investigations treat these two subjects separately. The purpose of this paper is to present an equivalence between threshold functions and statistical recognition with independent distributions."
"In the design of registers for controlling a digital process, it is often desired to count through a sequence of specified length and terminate the count by returning to the initial state. A penalty is associated with the use of a straightforward binary code for such counters because of the large number of diodes required to implement the counter, and because of the pyramiding effect which heavily loads the flip-flops representing the least significant bits."
"The memory we describe here is a logical and practical outgrowth of the content addressable distributed logic memory of Lee and Paull.1 However, there are several significant differences: the inclusion of a \"match\" flip-flop and a \"control\" flip-flop in each cell of the memory, the addition of a \"Mark\" line to activate many cells simultaneously, and the control of the propagation of the marking signal. As a consequence of these, the memory has some novel capabilities, among which are the ability to simultaneously shift the contents of a large group of cells, thus opening or closing a gap in the memory, and the ability to simultaneously mark strings of interest in separate parts of the memory."
"Logic circuits composed of NOR or NAND elements are now being used extensively in digital systems, mainly because of their economy; one type of element may be used throughout an entire circuit. Assuming that the basic decision to use such \"universal\" elements has been made, the main design objective will usually be to produce either the fastest or the most economical circuit possible. The fastest NAND circuits, i.e., ones having a minimum number of levels of logic, are obtained by rewriting the minimum-OR polynomial (as obtained by the Quine-McCluskey method) in terms of the NAND connective, yielding a three-level logic (two-level if complemented inputs are available) e.g., where * represents the NAND connective. Similarly the minimum-AND polynomial may be written in terms of the NOR connective. Circuits obtained in this way are often also minimal with respect to the number of logic elements required."
"One of the more promising areas of computer use involves the coupling of a man to a computer system for real-time problem-solving where the procedure for solution of the problem is either unknown or involves complex tasks, such as pattern recognition, that can best be performed by humans [1]. Unfortunately, a straightforward approach to such use commits significant amounts of computer time most of which is spent idling. The imbalance in operating costs, assignable to the human and the computer, argues against computer use unless the total gain over strictly manual operations is sufficiently great."
"Cantor, Estrin and Turn have described a special-purpose structure to implement sequential table look-up (STL) algorithms for the evaluation of ln x and exp x.1 Tables of precomputed constants are used to transform the argument into a range where the function may be approximated by a simple polynomial. The transformation for ln x, originally proposed by Bemer,2 is where the set of constants ai are precomputed. A power series expansion for ln x is"
"An on-line man-computer program has been described and experimental results concerning the demands made upon the computer are reported. For this particular system it would appear unwise to attempt a time-sharing with other programs on most systems. The use, however, as a single multicomponent program is quite reasonable. It is felt that the functions that are defined and measured here are sufficiently similar to those involved in other on-line systems that these results should be of some concern to those proposing to time-share them. In any event, this work points up the need for experimental evaluation of programs proposed for on-line use before incorporation in a time-sharing system. The author gratefully acknowledges the assistance of D. Mortara in helping to devise the experimental monitoring system and of R. Trogdon and J. Knoke for their technical assistance in the measurements."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1965."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Properties of self-dual threshold functions are discussed because of the importance of self-dual functions in threshold logic. Since any threshold function can be easily converted into or reduced from a positive self-dual threshold function, we will not lose generality in discussion by exploring the properties of positive self-dual threshold functions. First functions generated by additively or subtractively merging two variables of a positive self-dual threshold function are discussed. Expansions of a positive self-dual threshold function with respect to two variables are then shown, and the generation of functions based on them is discussed. The concepts of strongly asymmetrical selfdual threshold functions and its degree are introduced, and the relation of all self-dual threshold functions of fewer variables with strongly asymmetrical ones is shown. The above discussion enables the classification of threshold functions and the relation between threshold functions of n variables and those of more variables to be better seen."
"A lower bound on the number of threshold functions and a lower bound on the maximum of minimum weights of a threshold element are derived from a recursively constructed family of threshold elements. All threshold functions of n variables are difficult to construct for a general value of n, but it is shown that a large number of them can be constructed recursively from threshold functions of fewer variables. Schemes of such generation and related proper ties are discussed. Threshold functions generated in this way are so numerous that they constitute a constructive proof of a good lower bound on the number of threshold functions. By a similar procedure, we can derive a lower bound on the maximum of minimum weights of a threshold element. In this paper, discussion is limited to self-dual threshold functions, but this does not sacrifice generality, because any threshold function can be derived from a self-dual threshold function by assigning 1 or 0 to a certain variable."
"This paper considers the class of linear sequential circuits from the regular expression point of view. The circuits studied do not have special starting units which are necessary in the conventional construction of circuits from regular expressions. Since conventional regular expressions are only indirectly related to the circuit structure, a new regular language is developed. Using this language, the regular expression accepted by a linear circuit can be obtained more directly from the circuit. The regular expressions are then interpreted to provide a word description of the circuit behavior."
"This paper concerns a property of sets of delayed-logic devices. This property, called completeness, characterizes sets of logic devices that can be used for the construction of networks to represent any finite-state machine. Associated with this property is a rate of completeness, which is the maximum input sequence rate for which any finite-state machine can be constructed from the given set of devices. Tests for completeness are presented from which the completeness or lack thereof may be determined for certain classes of sets of devices. For complete sets of devices, these tests also determine the rate of completeness."
"A complete set of logic primitives is a set of devices which can be connected to represent any Boolean function of binary variables. This paper deals with the number of devices required in a complete set of logic primitives. It is well known that a complete set of logic primitives may contain as few as one element, e.g., NOR. It is the purpose of this paper to establish a least upper bound on the number of nonredundant elements in a complete set. It is shown that every complete set contains a complete subset with at most four elements. Further, a complete set with four elements is presented which is incomplete if any element is deleted."
"A diagrammatic approach to the problem of synthesizing multilevel logic functions is presented. It has the advantage of giving a visual interpretation to such abstract concepts as fan-in, levels of logic, decomposition, and two-level forms."
"Binary square rooting algorithms which yield a root in a redundant representation using digits 1, -1, and 0 are analyzed, particularly those yielding a root in a representation in which the number of nonzero digits is minimal. An algorithm which may lead to any possible minimal representation of the square root is developed."
"Use of a content-addressable memory as a highly parallel digital computer is described. The ability to perform any arithmetic operation on many sets of data at the same time is shown. The memory organization and the storage of data are such that many operations are performed parallel by bit as well as parallel by word, resulting in more efficient algorithms and shorter execution times. Consideration of the limitations of a linear memory array in performing such operations leads to the description of a more efficient organization, called the two-dimensional distributed logic memory. The efficiency of this form in the bulk processing of data is illustrated by a number of algorithms for basic data processing operations, including matrix inversion."
"A new digital magnetic tape transducer intended to provide megabit per second data transfer speeds with moderate tape speed is described. This magnetic tape transducer contains no moving parts, but records on the tape along transverse tracks. Sweep of the effective or operative area of the transducer across the tape is accomplished by selectively controlling the permeability of one of the magnetic members. A large portion of this transducer is fabricated from thin magnetic films deposited upon glass substrates. The performance of the transducer is determined to a large extent by the magnetic switching characteristics of one of these thin films. The magnetic properties required of these films are derived in terms of the desired frequency response. The impulse response is calculated partially taking into account the nonlinearity of the tape but neglecting demagnetization effects. As an aid to making design choices, the frequency response of the transducer is computed from the impulse response. The magnetic parameters, the dimensions of the transducer and tape, and the speed of the sweep across the tape are chosen to obtain a frequency response of about 4 Mc/s. The experimentally obserrved pulse response using prerecorded tape compares favorably with the predicted impulse response. However, considerable playback noise which is probably associated with the thin magnetic films has been observed. It appears that an extensive material development would be required before this transducer could be utilized."
"A linear, passive matched filter is developed for the readback portion of digital magnetic recording systems. The filter, by maximizing the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), improves the reliability of digital magnetic recording. This is necessary because the continuous improvement in magnetic recording resolution has brought about a consequent deterioration in the SNR. For the worst case, namely, when the signal and noise occupy precisely the same band of frequencies, laboratory experiments show an improvement factor of 3.42 in the SNR. The filter tested was of very low cost since it was built with standard off-the-shelf components. It can be easily implemented in any given situation by simple network scaling."
"Alearning program incorporating a version of stimulus-sampling theory was prepared for a digital computer. Handwritten first name signatures coded in a 20 by 48 grid served as inputs to study the effects of parameter changes in the program. Under one main condition the computer with its program examined only those grid cells in which any part of a given pattern fell. Under a second main condition each of the 960 grid cells was examined. Learning of correct pattern names occurred under both conditions. The level of learning achieved under the second condition was higher, although the improvement was gained at the expense of considerably extended running times."
"The only methods previously available for the design of stable analog circuits for the solution of algebraic equations involved extensive preparatory calculations or the use of an excessive number of amplifiers. This paper examines the causes of instability and gives a method which enables a stable circuit using the minimum of equipment to be designed for any nonsingular set of algebraic equations. The method is ideal for the design of high-speed circuits."
"This paper provides guidelines for the discretizing of the space variables in continuous systems governed by the second-order partial differential diffusion equation. Such lumping is necessary in all digital and many analog methods. To analyze the truncation error resulting from lumped analog or digital modelling, the authors demonstrate the applicability of an upper-bound criterion combining amplitude and phase errors in the frequency domain. Dimensionless variables are used to compare lumped networks corresponding to one-dimensional continuous systems. Computer results are presented which relate truncation error to frequency for lumped models containing one to ten sections."
"The use of analog computers to study hydrodynamic stability is complicated by the fact that the governing differential equation has two rapidly varying solutions (one growing and one decaying), and two which are well behaved. Thus, errors in setting initial conditions and noise in an analog computer excite the rapidly growing solution, making the computer behave in an unstable way. This unstable behavior has its origin in the role played by fluid viscosity. Approximate techniques are discussed whereby these instabilites can be circumvented. The techniques are applied to the case of the Blasius boundary layer on a flat plate, and the results are compared with results available in the literature, obtained with a digital computer. The analog-and digital-computer results are in good agreement."
"A new group of time-delay polynomial approximations are obtained by trial and error methods. The results of the trial and error procedure suggest an analytic method for finding the new approsimations. The new approximations and their usable bandwidths are tabulated for second-through sixth-order polynomials. Delay vs. frequency graphs of the fourth-and fifth-order polynomials are compared with several previously published approximations. Also methods are suggested for delaying short signals and step functions for long periods."
"A new principle and circuit for the generation of the product of two variables is described in which the required result is a linear combination of readily produced secondary variables. The product of two variables can be expanded in a series in which each term is derived from the preceding one and from an auxiliary variable by linear operations and by maximum and minimum selection. Two ``converted'' variables are associated with each term of the expansion. The product is equal to a linear combination of the converted variables plus the product of the last two converted variables. The range of variation of successive converted signals decreases by half so that the series converges by factors of ¼ per term. The exrpansion stands in direct correspondence with electronic multipliers which use linear elements and diode selection circuits. Only two sign-changers are required for four-quadrant operation. When used in conjunction with an ancillary four-quadrant multiplier, the cascade multiplier increases its accuracy by factors of 4, 16, 64,..., if 1, 2, 3, ..., stages are used. Alternatively, a sufficient number of stages provides a complete multiplier even without the use of an ancillary multiplier. Accuracies of the order of ±0.1 per cent are readily obtained and speed of response is high."
"M.L. Dertouzos, author of the paper \"An Approach to Single-Threshold-Element Synthesis,\" which appeared on pp. 519-528 of the October, 1964, issue of these Transactions has called the following corrections to the attention of the Editor. On page 520, (3), the summation endpoints are corrected; on page 523, following (21), the equation is corrected; on page 525, the expression for Theorem 2 is corrected."
"A new group of time-delay polynomial approximations are obtained by trial and error methods. The results of the trial and error procedure suggest an analytic method for finding the new approximations. The new approximations and their usable bandwidths are tabulated for second-through sixth-order polynomials. Delay vs. frequency graphs of the fourth-and fifth-order polynomials are compared with several previously published approximations."
"Compiler programs are used to convert engineering test specifications to a digital code which can be interpreted by the automatic test equipment system. A programming language based upon decisiontable techniques allows the test engineer to write his test statements in an extremely convenient fashion and permits him to program any test specification with only a minimum of knowledge about the specific test equipment system and particular programming techniques."
"Where previous authors have considered linear approximations with a minimum sum of squared differences, we consider, instead, Chehyshev linear approximations, which minimize the maximum deviation. We obtain thus: 1) A new characterization of threshold functions, 2) A characterization of optimal threshold realizations as being virtually identical to the Chebyshev-best linear approximations, and 3) A new insight into the test-synthesis problem with which we opened this note."
"Compiler programs are used to convert engineering test specifications to a digital code which can be interpreted by the automatic test equipment system. A programming language based upon decision-table techniques allows the test engineer to write his test statements in an extremely convenient fashion and permits him to program any test specification with only a minimum of knowledge about the specific test equipment system and particular programming techniques."
"A method is developed for the design of arbitrary length counters using three-input majority elments. The iterative nature of the design leads to circuits of extreme simplicity and regularity. The system is dc triggered, hence operating correctly regardless of the rise time or width of the clock signal. As the method does not utilize master-slave techniques, only a single-phase clock is required. A practical embodiment of the system is presented, giving correct operation at clock rates in excess of 50 Mc/s. With more sophisticated high-speed circuitry, correct operation at clock rates in excess of 100 Mc/s should be readily attainable."
"Necessary conditions that a switching function be, in particular, a threshold function have been introduced by Paull and McCluskey [11]; named and studied at some length by Winder [13], [14], [15] and Muroga, et al. [8]; and generalized by Elgot [3], Winder [14], [15] and Gabelman [4]. The basic conditions are the k-monotonicities and have been used not only to recognize threshold functions but also to determine realizing weights and threshold."
"A method is developed for the design of arbitrary length counters using three-input majority elements. The iterative nature of the design leads to circuits of extreme simplicity and regularity. The system is dc triggered, hence operating correctly regardless of the rise time or width of the clock signal. As the method does not utilize master-slave techniques, only a single-phase clock is required. A practical embodiment of the system is presented, giving correct operation at clock rates in excess of 50 Mc/s. With more sophisticated high-speed circuitry, correct operation at clock rates in excess of 100 Mc/s should be readily attainable."
"The calculation of the transient response of a ladder network used in superconductive associative memories reduces essentially to finding the roots of the equation tan mø = L1/½L1 + L2 cot ø/2 where m is the number of stages in the ladder and L1 is the series inductance and L2 is the shunt inductance. This equation is a result of analysis of the equivalent network using a set of difference equations. Computer calculations show the effective time constant of the ladder thus related to memory access time converges to the equation τ = ½m2L1/R The above equations can be used as an approximation when m > 20 L2/L1 For values m<20L2/L1 direct computation should be used."
"The use is discussed of a fast core memory of, say, 32000 words as a slave to a slower core memory of, say, one million words in such a way that in practical cases the effective access time is nearer that of the fast memory than that of the slow memory."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The calculation of the transient response of a ladder network used in superconductive associative memories reduces essentially to finding the roots of the equation where m is the number of stages in the ladder and L1 is the series inductance and L2 is the shunt inductance. This equation is a result of analysis of the equivalent network using a set of difference equations."
"The use is discussed of a fast core memory of, say, 32 000 words as a slave to a slower core memory of, say, one million words in such a way that in practical cases the effective access time is nearer that of the fast memory than that of the slow memory."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1965."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Summary form only given. This work describes a technique for utilizing a computer program to assign to technical papers relevant descriptors from a fixed set of such terms. The authors chose a \"representative\" sample of about one hundred papers from a collection of 10,000 papers previously indexed by analysts at the Defense Documentation Center. The significant content words (those not on a list of stop words to be ignored) of the title and abstract of each paper were extracted, and paired with all the descriptors for that paper. From all the pairs obtained from this teaching sample, and the relative frequency of occurrence of each descriptor, a co-occurrence value for each pair was computed, and for \"validated\" descriptors (those appearing at least three times in the teaching sample), this co-occurrence data was retained. The remaining descriptor names were kept on a list of \"candidate\" descriptors."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A tabulation of the 2470 representative threshold functions of seven arguments has been prepared by the author. This paper discusses the methods used in, and the threshold logic implications of, the enumeration. The self-dual classification method of Goto-Takahasi was employed. A lattice was defined on the 8-cube in terms of which all 2-monotonic, canonical, self-dual functions of eight arguments were directly generated. Each such representative function was then treated by a modified form of the Muroga-Toda-Takasu linear programming test-synthesis procedure to obtain minimal 1-realizations. The Chow parameters for each function were calculated, and the final enumeration was ordered lexicographically by these parameters to afford a trivial test-synthesis procedure for n≤7. The enumeration demonstrated that minimal 1-realizations are still integral for n≤7; it corroborated Cobham's result that complete monotonicity is equivalent to 1-realizability, and established hyper-2-monotonicity as a useful characterization, for n≤7. It significantly extended our knowledge of the number of threshold functions and the various symmetry types, the size of weights and threshold required, the number of iterations required by the linear program, and similar statistics."
"A tabulation of the 2470 representative threshold functions of seven arguments has been prepared by the author. This paper discusses the methods used in, and the threshold logic implications of, the enumeration. The self-dual classification method of Goto-Takahasi was employed. A lattice was defined on the 8-cube in terms of which all 2-monotonic, canonical, self-dual functions of eight arguments were directly generated. Each such representative function was then treated by a modified form of the Muroga-Toda-Takasu linear programming test-synthesis procedure to obtain minimal 1-realizations. The Chow parameters for each function were calculated, and the final enumeration was ordered lexicographically by these parameters to afford a trivial test-synthesis procedure for n≤7. The enumeration demonstrated that minimal 1-realizations are still integral for n≤7; it corroborated Cobham's result that complete monotonicity is equivalent to 1-realizability, and established hyper-2-monotonicity as a useful characterization, for n≤7. It significantly extended our knowledge of the number of threshold functions and the various symmetry types, the size of weights and threshold required, the number of iterations required by the linear program, and similar statistics."
"This paper develops the separating capacities of families of nonlinear decision surfaces by a direct application of a theorem in classical combinatorial geometry. It is shown that a family of surfaces having d degrees of freedom has a natural separating capacity of 2d pattern vectors, thus extending and unifying results of Winder and others on the pattern-separating capacity of hyperplanes. Applying these ideas to the vertices of a binary n-cube yields bounds on the number of spherically, quadratically, and, in general, nonlinearly separable Boolean functions of n variables. It is shown that the set of all surfaces which separate a dichotomy of an infinite, random, separable set of pattern vectors can be characterized, on the average, by a subset of only 2d extreme pattern vectors. In addition, the problem of generalizing the classifications on a labeled set of pattern points to the classification of a new point is defined, and it is found that the probability of ambiguous generalization is large unless the number of training patterns exceeds the capacity of the set of separating surfaces."
"A new method is presented for computing irredundant normal forms which renders feasible the handling of ``large'' functions. The method is based on the concept of abbreviated presence function and incorporates techniques found in the methods of ratio function and iterated consensus of the prime implicants. The complete set of irredundant normal equivalents of a formula is shown to be obtainable from an ``abbreviated presence function'' consisting of the presence relations corresponding to the prime implicants occurring in any one irredundant normal equivalent of the formula. Several examples are included to illustrate the economy in labor which the method provides. A new set of necessary and sufficient conditions is also given which allows a direct determination of absolutely dispensable prime implicants from the set of presence relations. The notion of absolute dispensability as presented here is related to that of Urbano and Mueller in which a prime implicant is absolutely dispensable if and only if it does not belong to an essential star."
"The problem of assigning codes to the output states of a multiple-output combinational circuit is considered. It is assumed that if the circuit has n inputs, then the 2n fundamental products, i.e., input states, are to be partitioned into disjoint groups, such that all members of the same group produce the same output state. The problem of coding the output states is studied here. Two algorithms for making the assignments are considered. The first gives those encodings for which the sum of the costs of all the output functions is minimum; the second minimizes the variable dependency of the output functions. In problems where reduced variable dependency is possible it has been found that the second algorithm yields minimum or near-minimum cost networks. Since this algorithm is easily applied it is useful for finding economical networks in situations where a large number of variables are involved since in such cases the first algorithm becomes lengthy. Attention is also directed to the problem of determining the optimum number of output variables to use for an encoding. An upper bound is derived and an example is presented which requires this bound."
"A method is illustrated for minimizing the number of internal states in incompletely specified sequential networks. The minimization algorithm applies to any type of incompletely specified flow table. It is shown that only some compatibility classes (prime compatibility classes) need be considered as members of a solution. The selection of prime classes may be obtained as the solution of an integer linear program or by tabular techniques that are an extension of those used in the selection of prime implicants."
"It is shown that by using minimum distance three state assignments and considering error states when deriving the input equations, counters tolerant of a single error can be synthesized. Although one flip-flop in the counter might be in error, the other flip-flops will continue to sequence correctly. Thus acceptable sequencing continues with a malfunctioning unit present in the circuit. Because of the error correcting properties of the state assignment, the correct state of the counter can be recovered. A one-bit error introduced by noise or an intermittent malfunction will be automatically corrected. Failure occurs if more than one flip-flop is in error. Redundancy is incorporated as an inherent result of the initial design procedure rather than being included after a nonredundant working design is obtained. Instead of using any of the known methods of simplification of Boolean functions, the synthesis procedure involves the selection of a minimum number of terms which satisfy a concise set of distance and intersection properties. The selection procedure is intrinsically suitable for machine computation. Although specific logic units are discussed, it is believed that the concepts are general in nature and can be applied to any type of logic hardware."
"This paper is a study of linear machines and their submachines. Methods are presented for finding the reduced form of a given linear machine with or without fixed initial state. A technique is suggested for detecting whether a machine is linear or can be embedded as a submachine in a linear machine. In the latter case a state assignment is produced for the minimum linear realization. Encoded inputs and outputs are assumed, but given machines are not assumed reduced, nor are there any restrictions on the number of states in the given machine or in the linear realization. The method also detects machines that are linearly realizable when constants are available. The main results are that the reduced form of a linear machine is linear and that a linearly realizable machine with r-independent states has an r-dimensional realization."
"The``state'' of a sequential machine is interpreted as the sequence-to-sequence input-output mapping performed by the machine. Such mappings have been called sequential functions. This concept of state is applied to the theory of binary linear sequential machines. The modulo-2 adders are assumed to have an inherent delay td≥0, and the effects of initial conditions are considered. The pertinent results from the algebra of delay polynomials are summarized, and the state structure of linear sequential functions is outlined. It is shown that every retrospective linear sequential function can be realized using only unit-delay modulo-2 adders, and bounds are derived on the minimum realizable delay between input and output."
"This paper proposes a method, termed antiparallel control logic, for the control and efficient utilization of computer networks that exhibit substantial propagation delays on the lines interconnecting the logical elements, as well as in the elements themselves. The discussion encompasses the basic behavior of antiparallel stages that realize this method of control, including their logical realization and their extension to other useful network logic structures. In a strictly feedforward line, where the stored data are indexed forward by control pulses moving in a direction away from the data source, the existence of time variations in the delays of successive stages implies a nonzero probability that two successive control pulses will eventually appear at the inputs to a given stage so closely spaced that the basic reaction time of the stage is violated. The result is a failure of the transfer mechanism and a consequent loss of information. If feedback control is provided such that control pulses move in a direction opposite to the flow of information, that is, if the control and information flows are antiparallel, then the failure of the transfer mechanism does not cause an overlap in the information stored on the line, but rather leaves a void, or hole, which does not imply necessary information loss nor physically unrealizable storage requirements on the individual stages."
"The class of one-dimensional, real-time, iterative, discrete-state automata is described. By example, it is shown that serial multiplication can be carried out by such a sequential switching network. Each of two arbitrarily large integers is represented in binary notation by a time sequence of digits 0 or 1, the lowest order digits first. A design is given for a discrete-state machine that has as input the two time sequences of binary digits and as output a single sequence of binary digits, which is the product of the two input integers, lowest-order digit first. The multiplier is constrained to be a linear array of identical cells. The cells each have a finite number of states and each cell communicates directly only with the adjacent cells, such communications occurring in a synchronous manner. The multiplication is performed in real time; that is, the delay between the receipt of the nth digits of the input and the generation of the nth digit of the output is a fixed number of periods of the synchronizing clock. A design with no time delay is described."
"ILLIAC II is a general purpose computer built at the University of Illinois, Urbana. It contains about 55000 transistors and has a floating multiply time of 6.3 μs. A number of features are provided to increase the speed of operation. There are three controls in largely concurrent operation. The control circuits are largely asynchronous and speed independent. The floating point arithmetic unit contains two adders and utilizes redundant number representation and separate carry storage. The memory hierarchy has members ranging from the 10-word, 0.2-μs. flow gating memory to magnetic tapes. Order fetches from the main 1.8-μs. core memory are minimized by packing two to four orders per word, and by holding two words of orders in the flow gating memory for execution of short loops. The bibliography lists 40 papers related to the design of this computer."
"The new EDP Machine Logic and Control Simulator, LOCS, is designed to facilitate the simulation of data processing systems and logic on the IBM 7090 Data Processing System. With this simulator, it will be possible to operate and execute commands in a manner comparable to that of a hardware version of the machine being simulated. The inputs to LOCS consist of a description, coded in LOCS language, of the machine to be simulated and a set of test programs coded in either the procedure language of the test problems (e.g., FORTRAN), or in the instruction language of the simulated machine. If a procedure language is used, a suitable translator program coded in machine language must be included to translate the test programs into machine code. The outputs of LOGS consist of the performance statistics, computation results, and diagnostic data which are relevant to both the test programs and the design of the simulated machine. This paper first describes the LOCS System including a description of LOCS inputs and outputs as well as an outline of the procedure one must follow to use LOCS. Next, the method of using LOCS is illustrated by an example of the complete simulation of a simple conventional binary data processing machine; and following this, a summary of current status."
"This paper describes the use of a very high-speed scratch pad memory for directly executing programs in floating code with a single origin or multiple origins. When a program is being loaded into the magnetic core memory of a digital computer, there is no need of modifying the addresses of the original code. Neither the programmer, nor the operator, nor the program loader has to know where are the available locations in the magnetic core memory. During the subsequent execution of the program, the logical and physical correspondence of the addresses of the code is found by hardware address interpretation. The operations involved in address interpretation are described as well as the organization and control sequence of the computer. The use of the scratch pad memory can also be extended for dynamic allocation of magnetic-core memory locations and for memory protection of all programs which do not have to lie in physically contiguous areas of the memory."
"The complexity, speed, and accuracy of encoding systems depend strongly upon the type of voltage amplitude comparator used. Encoding techniques such as successive approximation and time base use only a single comparator while parallel encoding and nonprogrammed feedback encoding require at least one comparator for each stage. This paper presents a versatile voltage amplitude comparator with suggestions for its use in all basic encoder types and with design procedures which will provide increased voltage sensitivity. To indicate further the use of the comparator, a three-bit encoder design is presented."
"A fixed or read-only memory, consisting of a stack of paper or plastic punched cards, each containing an interconnected array of printed resistors, is discussed. The cards are compatible with conventional keypunches, and information is recorded on each card by the punching of a pattern of holes, each of which severs an appropriate connection. An interconnection method, which involves the injection of molten, low-temperature solder alloy into special channels in the stack, is described. This technique provides all card- to-card interconnections simultaneously. It is shown that the memory can be operated in a content-addressable or associative mode. Experimental results, dealing with resistor silk-screening and card stack construction and operation, are presented."
"A matrix of simple, identical intercommunicating cells is the core of a pattern classifier that can sort two-valued, two-dimensional patterns, such as alphabetic symbols. The matrix yields information about a patterm mapped on its cells by reporting whether or not a threshold exceeds the number of cells that remain in a ``zero'' state after a sequence of operations that include directed cell-to-cell propagations of change of state. The pattern furnishes a barrier to the propagations. The testing process is a program written to suit some alphabet of pattern classes. An automatic sequencer for controlling the testing process is described. The testing operations are few, but they can be combined in tests for an abundance of features of great variety. A computer simulation, using a single decision tree, classifies the commonest press and typewriter fonts. A small manually sequenced model employing integrated microelectronic cells has been built."
"A simulation of the trajectory of underwater acoustic rays is implemented on a general-purpose electronic-analog computer. Equations defining the phenomena are summarized, assumptions are listed, and a preferred form of the equations is developed to provide maximum attainable accuracy of solution. Included are considerations of the velocity of sound as an arbitrary function of both depth and range, and the effects of reflections from both the surface and an arbitrary bottom. A complete computer diagram is presented and special circuits are described. Typical results of depth versus range are shown for varying launch depths and launch angles. A method of obtaining the difference in time required for rays leaving a common emitter at various angles to reach a common receiver is also derived. By use of perturbations, Taylor series expansions, and the method of steepest descents to insert the constraint cos θ/c = constant, the overall error in this highly sensitive computation has been reduced to 0.01 per cent or better."
"Quarter-square diode analog multipliers are composed of two diode squaring channels. The selection of the diode breakpoints and the output level at each of them involves essentially the optimization of a straight-line segment approximation to the ideal parabolic output. This optimization has often been discussed and actually carried out in commercial multipliers using the least value of the integral of squared error as the optimization criterion. This and other published criteria, however, focus on smoothing the error, but allow a large per cent error in the region of small input. To smooth the per cent error over the whole range a new criterion of the square root of the integral of per cent error squared was applied. The design was carried out on a computer using a type of dynamic programming search process which allowed easy experimentation with the criterion as well as the easy incorporation of practical design requirements. The resulting design showed a substantially smoother per cent error over the entire range with only a very slight increase in per cent error in the region of higher inputs."
"Following Moore [1], consider a sequential machine (discrete, synchronius automata) having n states or less, m inputs, and p-possible outputs. The state that the machine is in at a given time depends only on the state at the previous time and the previous input. The output at a given time depends only on the current state. In addition the machine is strongly connected. That is to say, it is possible to take it from any state to any other state by means of some sequence of inputs. Finally, the machine is in reduced form, which may be taken to mean that it is not possible to design a sequential machine having fewer states whose behavior, in so far as its inputs and outputs are concerned, is identical with the behavior of the original machine. As a gedanken experiment, one may attempt to determine the table of state transitions and outputs of this machine (to within a renaming of its states) by applying inputs and observing the corresponding outputs. It is assumed that one does not just open up the machine and trace its circuits. What will be the length of this gedanken experiment? That is, how many inputs are needed?"
"A necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of an autonomous clock in a sequential machine M is found to be the existence of a nontrivial input-independent partition on the set of internal states of M, no matter whether M is completely specified or incompletely specified. Two different techniques are given for generating the smallest input-independent partition πI, from which all other input-independent partitions can be obtained. One is suitable for a sequential machine whose state behavior is specified in the form of a flow table, while the other is convenient for a sequential machine whose state behavior is specified in the form of a connection matrix. Both techniques are efficient, and give all possible assignments to the redundant conditions of an incompletely specified sequential machine to reach the same nontrival input-independent partition, and hence the same autonomous clock."
"A necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of an autonomous clock in a sequential machine M is found to be the existence of a nontrivial input-independent partition on the set of internal states of M, no matter whether M is completely specified or incompletely specified. Two different techniques are given for generating the smallest input-independent partition πI, from which all other input-independent partitions can be obtained. One is suitable for a sequential machine whose state behavior is specified in the form of a flow table, while the other is convenient for a sequential machine whose state behavior is specified in the form of a connection matrix. Both techniques are efficient, and give all possible assignments to the redundant conditions of an incompletely specified sequential machine to reach the same nontrival input-independent partition, and hence the same autonomous clock."
"Three results are presented pertinent to the problem of finding minimum-row versions of incompletely specified flow tables for sequential or iterative circuits. 1) Conditions are precisely stated under which preliminary mergers can be made without the danger of ruining opportunities for ultimately finding a minimal-row version. 2) A theorem by McCluskey is generalized to show that for all flow tables if optional entries arise only due to restrictions as to which input states may immediately follow one another, then the reduction problem is relatively simple. 3) A useful heuristic in the form of a diagram illustrating implication relations of 2-member compatibles is introduced as an aid in finding minimal closed sets of compatibles."
"A simple methods is developed for the synthesis of any arbitrary logical network by three-input majority gates. The methods is based on a generalization of a geometric interpretation of Boolean functions and on the fundamental property of a 3M gate; if there are the same signals on two inputs (representing logical O or I), then the output of the gate is independent of the third input signal. This represents therefore a ``don't care'' condition. In the synthesis procedure all functions are represented by a direct n-cube diagram. For recognition of various topological forms (k-dimensional subcubes, s-multiple stars) graphical-mechanical aids (contact and directional grids) can be used. The method of reduction of arguments after each synthesis step is shown and minimal majority expansions of all types of two and three-argument functions are tabulated. The problem of the time delay and/or ``symmetry in time'' in 3M-gate networks is treated in some detail."
"The synthesis of Boolean functions is a process for converting some specification for circuit behavior into an expression (optimal in some sense) for a Boolean function. It has been conventional to specify this behavior by means of a table of combinations (or truth table) in which for each system of values for the input variables (i.e., input state) there is associated either the value 1 or the value 0 or the symbol d [1]. These are called, respectively, ONE states, ZERO states and DON'T CARE states. This specification then identifies a nonempty class of Boolean functions and the process of Boolean function synthesis is to select from this class of functions one capable of being represented most simply."
"The computer organization described here is an extension of a concept of Leondes and Rubinoff [1]. The original machine consisted of a drum store and a single processor capable of sequencing its access from one track (array column) to another at the end of each drum revolution. In this way the system could process one iteration of a Laplace equation in n-drum revolutions, where n is the number of columns of the array."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1965."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Solving prime implicant tables is greatly facilitated by reduction techniques such as row dominance, column dominance, and essential row selection. This paper presents a new reduction technique which is operable on any otherwise irreducible table having a column covered by exactly two rows."
"In connection with the problem of two-level minimization of systems of Boolean functions, formulas are obtained for the following statistical quantities: average number of k cubes, prime k cubes, and essential k cubes of a system of Boolean functions. The parameters appearing in the formulas are the number of variables, the number of functions of the system, and the number of ``one'' vertices of each function. Numerical evaluations are given. Increasing by one the number of variables n of a system of m functions roughly results in multiplying the average numbers of cubes and prime cubes by a factor of about 2.2 to 2.3. The ratio of the average numbers of essential cubes and prime cubes rapidly decreases increasing n or m, so that the minimization algorithms, which obtain the essential cubes before the prime cubes, seem statistically unsuitable to solve ``large'' minimization problems. The average occupation memory occurring in Quine, McCluskey, and Bartee algorithms is also evaluated. Its rate of increase with the number of variables is about 2.5."
"An algorithm is developed for synthesizing networks which realize Boolean switching functions through the use of a minimum number of threshold logic elements. A switching function is represented by a matrix and the algorithm is based on the principle that the removal of the positive linear dependences from the rows of this matrix results in a linearly separable function. The positive linear dependences are removed by adding columns to the matrix, each column representing the output of a threshold logic element in the network. The added columns in effect transform a nonseparable function into a sparable function a higher dimensional space. The algorithm is illustrated with examples of the synthesis of both single and multiple output networks. The technique is not restricted to completely specified functions."
"A coding graph is a model which contains all the types of finite automata and codes as special cases. A test for information losslessness and for information losslessness of finite order of a coding graph is described. Efficient methods of computation are given which make the calculation simple and mechanizable. The application of the tests to finite deterministic automata is discussed and a method of constructing a decoder for a given finite automaton that is information lossless of finite order, is described."
"This paper describes the logical design of an accumulator register for a general purpose digital computer. The only logic gates used are NOR gates and inverter gates and the sole storage device is a gated clocked flip-flop which takes the value on a single input line when the gate line is high. The accumulator register operates in conjunction with another register called the memory exchange register. The memory exchange register can be added to the accumulator, subtracted from the accumulator, ANDed with, and ORed with the accumulator; the result in each case being placed in the accumulator. The accumulator can also be shifted right or left. The problem of carry propagation during addition is alleviated by carry bridging. The accumulator circuitry has been made simpler by treating the operations to be performed collectively rather than individually, and by careful assignment of input-values to the storage devices."
"An organization for a disk storage system oriented toward multicomputer and shared computer applications is described, and a study is made of its effectiveness in accessing data. The disk file incorporates an independently positioned arm for accessing each disk, and the capability for concurrently controlling several positioners. Also, multiple data transmission channels can be provided between the disk file and a buffer unit. A criterion of maximum average transmission capacity is proposed for investigating the speed of accessing data with this organization. Probabilistic models for analyzing the queueing of positioned arms for access to a disk-buffer transmission channel are developed. With reasonable assumptions, the solution of the models is reduced to a small set of linear equations in terms of queue length probabilities. The transmission capacity is evaluated with parameter values typical of contemporary disk files. The principal conclusion is that the economic feasibility of more than three position controllers per disk-buffer channel is very doubtful in seeking the full effectiveness of this organization."
"A method for computing the scales needed for programming a digital differential analyzer (DDA) is developed. DDA program (interconnection) maps containing integrators and servos are considered. The scales must satisfy ``equilibrium,'' ``topological,'' and ``boundary'' constraints. These constraints are shown to be equivalent to a set of linear inequalities. Linear programming techniques are used to find both feasible and ``optimal'' scales. The use of linear programming eliminates the need for the usual trial-and-error scaling techniques and makes the scheme amenable to programming on a general-purpose digital computer."
"A method of design is presented for logical circuits, starting from worst-case considerations. The method represents an approach to dc optimization. Special attention is paid to temperature and tolerance problems in monolithic integrated circuits. In the worst-case design procedure outlined, the requirements for obtaining a properly functioning circuit are taken as the point of departure. This results in a whole field of possible circuits from which-depending on further specifications-it is comparatively easy to find special solutions. Three examples of worst-case calculations are developed-one for a transistor-transistor logic circuit, one for a diode-transistor logic circuit, and finally, one for a new type of circuit, termed emitter-follower transistor logic."
"The organization of an associative memory which makes use of conventional destructive-readout magnetic elements is presented. The associative memory described is word-organized; an example is an array of memory elements of 64 bits by 1024 bits. The memory is both location-addressable and content-addressable, and capable of bit-parallel search. A unique feature is its two-dimensional read/write capability, resulting (for the example) in a short-word length of 64 bits and a long-word length of 1024 bits. Such an associative memory is proposed mainly for nonnumerical data processing rather than for storage. The bit-parallel search logic is not embedded in each memory element, but is implemented for a long-word at the exterior of the memory array. As a result, this associative memory is less costly than an associative memory where parallel logic is built into each memory element. Because parallel-search logic is implemented for only one long-word, implementation of several varieties of search logic is practical. In addition to a bit-comparison logic, other logical operations (such as NAND, NOR, AND, OR) can be implemented relatively simply and less expensively."
"In the most direct method for measuring correlation functions with an analog computer a delay must be simulated. Since a lumped parameter system is used, we can only hope to approximate this delay. We intentionally exclude such storage systems as magnetic tapes because of their cost, and confine ourselves to the use of commonly available analog computer components. Extensive work has been carried out toward finding the best delay approximation according to different criteria, based mainly on transient or frequency response considerations. In this paper a new point of view is adopted. The overall effect of the delay approximation on the measured value of the autocorrelation function is taken into account. The best approximation is then chosen as the one that produces the closest agreement between the theoretically measured value and the exact value of the autocorrelation. It is seen that this method for selecting the delay approximation sometimes leads to very different results from those formerly obtained. For example, it is shown that for measuring the autocorrelation of noise generated by filtering white noise with a filter with real poles, the best approximation is one whose value for a real argument (instead of jω) best approaches the exponential function for a real argument. The treatment of the subject in this paper deals mainly with the autocorrelation function, but is later extended to the case of cross-correlations."
"A new method for obtaining pure delay of voltage waveforms on the analog computer is discussed. This method, which is based upon frequency-domain sampling in combination with a feedforward-feedback technique, is capable of producing relatively long delays. The theory underlying the method has been previously presented. In this paper experimental aspects are described in detail. Particular emphasis is placed upon those topics that are important to the use of the method in actual practice, namely; 1) a general, scaled computer diagram, 2) typical experimental records (which also verify the theory), and 3) a general procedure for programming and debugging. The experimental study has shown that high-quality results are obtainable with this method. Moreover, it is widely applicable to computation and simulation problems, and can easily be programmed."
"A majority or threshold element is a device with a finite number of inputs and a single output. The output, Fn is a Boolean function of the n binary valued variables (x1, x2, ..., xn) applied to the inputs. The analysis of a threshold element is the determination of the output Boolean function, Fn when the input variables and their multiplicities are specified. The multiplicity of an input variable xi is the number of inputs to which the variable is applied. The fundamental problem in analysis is the determination of Fn when the number of inputs is moderately large. An algorithm is given which permits a simple straightforward determination of Fn in reduced, disjunctive form."
"A necessary condition for a threshold function in terms of comparability was first reported by Paull and McCluskey [4] who have established a chain of conditions later called 1-monotonicity, 2-monotonicity, and k-monotonicity, in general. Each of these conditions entails its predecessors, and is stricter than them; the union of this denumerable set of conditions is called complete monotonicity by Winder. Winder [5] has given an extensive treatment of these ideas and has offered an efficient procedure for the design of threshold devices."
"In a previous paper by this author, the problem of achieving arbitrary reliability for combinatorial nets from arbitrarily unreliable elements was reduced to the study of the convergence properties of an associated polynomial system. In this paper simple criteria which specify the convergence of such a system to a nodal fixed point are obtained from known results in matrix theory. (Convergence to a nodal fixed point implies that the corresponding net approaches reliability arbitrarily near 1 for a particular function.) Theorems are also given which show that it is possible to obtain, from a single system converging to a nodal fixed point, many systems having this property. In a recent paper by this author [1] the organization and reliability of large combinatorial nets were investigated. In that paper several theorems were proved whose ultimate purpose was to delineate conditions under which arbitrarily reliable homogeneous nets could be obtained from arbitrarily unreliable elements. It is the main purpose of the present note to amplify these results as well as prove certain new theorems from which arbitrary reliability for a particular net may be tested by making use of easily applied theorems and associated algorithms. We begin by reviewing certain necessary concepts from the aforementioned paper. This paper should be consulted for a more detailed treatment of these ideas."
"In the design of sequential relay circuits one often has to consider the circuit as a part of a larger system, and one must take into account the nature of the inputs to the circuit. Frequently, the inputs are two-terminal contact networks with one terminal grounded; such inputs will be called simple. This paper examines the formal design techniques as applied to circuits with simple inputs. It is shown that all relays should be considered as secondary, from the point of view of both races and minimization. Several other shortcomings of the present theory are pointed out. Properties of circuits with simple inputs are examined. It is shown that there are flow tables not realizable without races with simple inputs, and that the presently known secondary assignment methods are not applicable to circuits with simple inputs."
"In a recent note by Bacon [1], a new result about the minimization of stochastic finite state machines has been proven. Extending the theory developed by Carlyle [2], he shows that all minimal-state forms of equivalent machines are state equivalent, and they all have the same number of states. He also describes a necessary and sufficient condition for a machine to be minimal."
"Techniques are presented which enable conventional \"light-pen\" tracking and pointing functions to be extended to the direct view storage tube (DVST). The schemes eliminate the high data transfer rates or considerable buffer storage required even for static displays when short persistence cathode ray tubes (CRTs) are used. Two solutions, a \"quadruple photo-sensor pen\" and the \"potentiometer pen\" (a transparent resistive sheet and stylus combination which covers the display), are described and compared."
"The concept of the shiftrix matrix is due to Dr. G. Estrin [1] of the UCLA Department of Engineering. In broad terms the shiftrix is a device for speeding up the multiplication operation in computers by making use of complete parallelism in the shifting operation to reduce the total shifting time to a negligible value. A similar device to accomplish the same purpose has been devised by Richards [2]."
"To specify the amplifying properties of various active electronic devices the gain-bandwidth product GNB is commonly used. The aim of this paper is to show that for active electronic (not electromagnetic) devices working in switching circuits, another figure of merit (analogous to the reciprocal of the gain-bandwidth product) could be derived from a simple model of an electronic switch."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1964."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"An exponentially convergent and finite algorithm is presented for the determination of the solution a of the linear inequalities Aα>0 for a given matrix A, or for determining the non-existence of solution for Aα>0. This result is useful in threshold-switching theory and in pattern classification problems. Experiments indicate extremely rapid convergence of the method."
"An exponentially convergent and finite algorithm is presented for the determination of the solution α of the linear inequalities Aα>0 for a given matrix A, or for determining the non-existence of solution for Aα>0. This result is useful in threshold-switching theory and in pattern classification problems. Experiments indicate extremely rapid convergence of the method."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of mechanizing synchronous sequential machines with the least number of shift registers. An algorithm, suitable for programming on a digital computer, is developed which starts with the state table of the given machine and yields mechanizations having the least possible number of shift registers. The algorithm is based on the fact that there is a one-to-one correspondence between shift registers and certain partitions of the set of states of the machine. These partitions are called shift-register partitions (SRP's), and it is shown that every SRP can be generated from two special partitions called the column partition (πc) and the row partition (πr). States are grouped together in πc if they have transitions into common states and are grouped together in πr if they have transitions from common states."
"A synthesis technique is developed which forms an all NAND or all NOR structure from a combinational logical expression. The resultant structure has a maximum of three logic levels. It is shown that the structure can be obtained directly from the prime implicants describing the logical expression. Also, by grouping prime implicants into any one of three basic patterns, a reduction in the size of the structure can be realized. The paper uses the NAND element to develop the synthesis technique, and then extends the technique to include NOR synthesis."
"In the design of combinational diagnostic testing procedure for a large digital system, some redundant tests are expected. This paper describes an algorithm for selecting a good (locally optimized) set of diagnostic tests which contains no redundancy. The algorithm will in general tend to give a ``fairly good'' set of test patterns, but is not guaranteed to be absolutely minimal. An overall optimization scheme is desirable but seems impractical [1]. The procedure described can be used either to yield a set of diagnostics which loses no resolution from the full set, or to yield a smaller set with some loss in resolution."
"The reliability of a network of elements may be improved by triplicating the network and determining the output using majority voting logic. The reliability of the triplicated network depends on how the network is subdivided for voting purposes and the type of majority voting logic used. The optimum arrangement of elements and voters is established for the single voter scheme, and an estimate of the optimum arrangement is derived for the three voter scheme. Upper and lower bounds on possible improvements through triplication are determined, and a comparison is made of the single voter and three voter schemes. All results are presented in graphical form."
"This paper describes the design of a new exceptionally fast analog comparator with digital output for hybrid computation. A wide-band dc amplifier with regenerative feedback permits high-speed comparator operation within 100 ns of zero crossing for all input rates of change between zero and 5×106 volts/second. Static hysteresis between ±10 mV and ±40 mV improves noise immunity. Drift is less than 25 microvolts per degree centigrade without chopper stabilization, which is optional. A simple two-transistor circuit provides both the regeneration and the digital output."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions that a Boolean function be universal, are established. It is demonstrated that most functions are in fact universal; thus, almost any function is a candidate for building the combinational logic of all computers."
"Directed graphs are often models for discrete sequential systems like computer programs, code generators, Markov processes, linear sampled-data systems, etc. [1]-[11]. One can study the behavior of such systems in a unified manner by the generating and characteristic functions [1], [2], [9]. We present here certain algorithms, suitable for digital computer mechanization, viz., 1) detection of certain structural ural flws (ill-formation) in the graph with respect to a set of initial and terminal nodes, 2) determination of redundant nodes, 3) enumeration and determination of all maximal strongly connected (M.S.C.) subgraphs, 4) determination of entries and exits of M.S.C. subgraphs, 5) partitioning of a graph into its component disjoint subgraphs. Whitney [11] and others [4]-[10] have considered the connectivity of graphs. Since we use the generating function, our results and methods in most cases are distinct and different. Also, our approach makes many physical applications meaningful. Since the generating function is based on a set of starting and terminating points, it provides a direct analog to computer programs and electrical circuits, which are characterized by entry and exit points, and sources and sinks, respectively. The concept of irredundant nodes is similar to that of [7], but we give explicit methods to determine the same. The method of enumerating the number of M.S.C. subgraphs and their identification is simpler than those of [7], [8], [10] from the digital computer mechanization viewpoint. Our methods of determination of entries and exits of M.S.C."
"Some methods of synthesis of networks composed of ternary majority elements such as the three-stable-state parametron or twin are studied. It is shown that three-place majority operation and diametrical negation (negation in the strong sense) with constants are functionally complete in three-valued logic. Classes of functions of two variables are studied for which networks realizing them contain no more than three cascades. This provides a possibility of realizing these functions in one full time unit in the case of three-cycle excitation. Methods of synthesis are developed for the networks which realize functions of an arbitrary number of variables. These methods are based on the excluding of one or several variables simultaneously. Considerations are proposed on the order of the excluding variables. Methods of majority decomposition of functions of three-valued logic are developed."
"Some methods of synthesis of networks composed of ternary majority elements such as the three-stable-state parametron or twin are studied. It is shown that three-place majority operation and diametrical negation (negation in the strong sense) with constants are functionally complete in three-valued logic. Classes of functions of two variables are studied for which networks realizing them contain no more than three cascades. This provides a possibility of realizing these functions in one full time unit in the case of three-cycle excitation. Methods of synthesis are developed for the networks which realize functions of an arbitrary number of variables. These methods are based on the excluding of one or several variables simultaneously. Considerations are proposed on the order of the excluding variables. Methods of majority decomposition of functions of three-valued logic are developed."
"The counting speed is taken as the most important factor in the selection of decimal counter logical arrangements. Decimal counter arrangements with the counting speed equal to that of the basic bistable, termed “ideally fast,” are considered. The methods for making “ideally fast” counting logics are outlined. A number of “ideally fast” decimal counter arrangements with weighted and un-weighted codes are presented and their features are discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1965."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The properties of m×1 homogeneous polyfunctional nets under iteration (a growth process in which each element is replaced by a copy of the original net) are explored in considerable detail. Theorems are proved which relate the sequence of sets of output functions of a net to its structure as well as to the set of functions performed by the elements of the net. A complete characterization with respect to convergence of the 2×1 bordered net is given. Many new results on the oscillation properties of these nets are obtained, including methods for constructing nets which oscillate with prescribed period. The reliability properties of nets whose initial function assignments contain sum, product, and majority functions are studied. For the class of m×1 bordered nets (nets only slightly less general than the m×1 nets) it is shown that arbitrary reliability for these functions can be obtained under extremely broad conditions."
"This paper describes two tests for the existence of a linear state assignment for binary input sequential machines. The first test is based on ``transfer sequences'' which map one stationary state of a machine onto another stationary state. It is shown that from a minimal transfer sequence of a machine one can read off directly a linear assignment of this machine if one exists. The second test uses ``ignorance'' computations by means of partitions and previously developed results about sequential machine structure."
"Three logic functions are introduced, two of which are functions in two-variables, named sequential logic product and sequential logic sum, while the third, depending on only one variable, is termed sequential logic negation. An algebraic theory is developed for logic processes where time plays an essential part; the connection is pointed out between sequential logic and the algebraic theory of multiple-state finite automata. This connection finally leads to new methods of analysis, as well as of synthesis, for finite automata operating according to given sequential equations; these methods offer certain advantages over standard procedures. Results obtained are likely to be useful in the theory of digital computers."
"A procedure for testing the realizability of complete 2n-state directed graphs by means of n-stage synchronous autonomous sequential networks of particular types, supplying at the same time state assignments pertaining to realizations of a specified class, is described. The analysis is confined to decomposed and linear networks, although the outlined method, based on the matrix representation of sequential circuits, can be applied to other types of networks. The similarity between transition matrices and corresponding logic matrices permits deriving circuit results through sole consideration of state graph structures. By resorting to the classical theory of rational canonical matrices, with any transition matrix a unique set of invariant vector subspaces of the 2n-dimensional space is systematically associated, upon which the prescribed realizability test is performed."
"H.Y. Chang, author of the paper, \"An Algorithm for Selecting an Optimal Set of Diagnostic Tests,\" which appeared on pages 706-711 of the October, 1965, issue of these Transactions, has noted corrections needed on page 707, left column, line 19, and on page 709, right column, fourth line of step 3)."
"This paper deals with the problem of compound synthesis of threshold-logic network, or of realizing a general Boolean function with a number of threshold-logic elements. Some basic theorems concerning the expression of a general Boolean function as a combination of a number of threshold functions are presented. The general structure of a network of m threshold-logic elements is analyzed in light of the basic theorems and properties of threshold functions. The properties of isobaric threshold functions are discussed and are utilized for compound synthesis. Methods for decomposing a function into a sum or product of unate functions and into a sum or product of threshold functions are developed. A synthesis procedure conforming with the general structure of a network of threshold-logic elements is given. A simplified synthesis procedure, which needs less cut and trial than the original procedure and is, therefore, more practical, is also presented. Some special situations are discussed. Examples are worked out to show the decomposition of functions, and to illustrate the synthesis method."
"A two-rail cascade is a one-dimensional binary logic cellular array wherein each noninitial cell has two inputs from the preceding cell and one external input. The initial cell has three external inputs, and the last cell one or two external outputs. The interest in two-rail cascades is due to the fact that one-output two-rail cascades are known to be functionally complete. This paper is concerned with two-output two-rail cascades and derives new synthesis procedures for four and five input variables. These procedures utilize certain properties of the symmetric group of degree 4, as well as known functional decomposition techniques."
"This paper describes an algebraic method for determining the effect produced on the logical structure of a synchronous, delay-memory sequential machine by a transformation of input, output, and state coding. The logical structure of a combinational transducer is specified by a 0, 1 ``pseudopermutation'' array called a logic matrix. Procedures are developed for computing the logic matrices for series, disjoint, and parallel combinations in terms of the logic matrices of the subunits. The logic matrix for a transducer exhibiting reduced dependence is characterized. Code transformation of the inputs, outputs, and states of a sequential machine is described in terms of permutation matrices. The logic matrix of the equivalent transformed machine is given as a function of the initial logic matrix and the matrices specifying the transformation."
"``ps maximal implicant'' of a function T is every function F having the following properties: 1) F implies TX; 2) the cost of the minimal ``product of sums of literals'' expression of F (psMF) is inferior to the cost of the minimal ``product of sums of literals'' of T (psMT); 3) no function V, implying T and implied by F, has a ps expression whose cost is inferior to the cost of the psMF. ps maximal implicants have, for the third-order minimization, the same importance that conventional prime implicants have for the second-order minimization. In this paper a method for determining the ps maximal implicants of a function is described. The procedure consists in the determination of two sets of functions, called ``first-stage'' and ``second-stage functions,'' and in the search for ps maximal implicants among the complements of those functions. While the determination of the first-stage functions offers no difficulty, the problem of finding the second-stage functions is an intricate one. However, it can be solved by a topological approach. It is important to note that the knowledge of the second-stage functions is not necessary for the determination of the minimal third-order expressions of the functions considered in the examples, but we could not prove this to be a general property."
"This article is primarily concerned with means for finding economical tree circuit realizations-iterative applications of decompositions f(xn, xn-1,..., x1) = Fi(Gi(xn, xn-1,..., xi,..., x1), Hi,(xn, xn-1,..., xi,..., x1), xi) and their associated circuitry-for Boolean functions f(xn, xn-1,..., x1). A uniform estimate or inequality shows that when synthesis is effected with two-input-per-gate circuitry, tree circuits are preferable to those which result from conventional sum of products techniques. The practical significance of the estimate is illustrated by its application to the tree circuit synthesis problem. The relationship of tree circuit theory to decomposition theory is established and the extension of the present theory to the corresponding multiple-output and incompletely-specified problems is indicated."
"Cascades of two-input, one-output general function cells have been studied previously with the restriction that no external variable may drive more than one cell. Upon relaxing this restriction, it is shown that a variable that drives more than one cell in a cascade need never drive more than one cell that is not an EXCLUSIVE-OR cell, and that cell must be the first cell driven by the variable in the cascade. From this it follows that there exists a canonical form for cellular cascades with repeated inputs. Furthermore, the length of a cascade required to produce an n-variable function is bounded by (n2+n-4)/2, and there are functions that meet this bound for all n. Derived from knowledge of the canonical form, a realizability and synthesis algorithm is described that is an extension of previously described algorithms. The algorithm has been used to test the 402 Harvard functions, and a table of minimal-length cascades of realizable functions is included in the paper. Although the number of realizable functions is greatly increased when the input restriction is relaxed, it is shown that the fraction of n-variable functions that are realizable becomes vanishingly small as n grows large. In particular, for example, of the 2n+1 symmetric functions of n-variables, precisely 12 are realizable for all n≥3."
"An approximation to the computation of the base two logarithm of a binary number, realized with binary circuitry, is described. It is known that the logarithm can be obtained approximately from the binary number itself by simple counting and shifting. A method for the reduction of the resulting approximation error by a factor six is given. The same principle can be used for further reduction of the error. The realization involving not only counting and shifting but also binary decision making and addition is described. Technical data about the performance of the constructed computer are given."
"Because transistor NOR gates allow only a liitmed number of inputs, NOR equations must be factored before they can be implemented. An easily programmed algorithm is developed which rapidly generates a subset of factors, selects optimum factors, and indicates a realization for the factored equation based on the relation A ↓ B ↓ C ↓ D = [(A ↓ B) ↓] ↓ C ↓ D. A method for preventing excessive fan-out is also presented."
"This paper describes the mutual dependence of interconnection and noise immunity in digital circuitry. Utilizing the charge control concept, the static thresholds of a transistor are defined in terms of the saturation charge and the depletion layer charge. These are subsequently translated into dynamic thresholds of circuitry by means of the network theory. The various noises encountered in digital computers are outlined. The noise due to interconnections is discussed in detail, and remedies are suggested. Design criteria for interconnections are then formulated by selecting the impedance and the routing of the wiring according to the noise margins of the circuits. Engineers are encouraged to view the system as a whole and to treat interconnections as an integral part of circuit design. A numerical example serves to illustrate the important points."
"Some ferroelectric materials exhibit a transition from stable to unstable partial switching at a critical pulsewidth t*. Schemes are proposed for utilizing this t* effect for coincident and successive addressing of a matrix memory, for a nondestructive readout from a matrix and for the simplification of a ferroelectric-electroluminescent display system. The practical limitations on these schemes are considered in terms of measurements made of t* in single crystal triglycine sulphate (TGS). Though the t* effect was observed to be a sharp rather than an absolute transition in the switching properties, the degree of sharpness was, however, sufficiently high to make t* devices feasible. For example, a coincidentally addressed t* TGS matrix can tolerate 105 disturb pulses. By comparison, a conventional matrix designed around the pseudocoercive field of TGS can only tolerate 10 disturbs. Even more impressive is that for the ``nondestructive'' type of readout operation 109 readouts can be made from a t* matrix before the stored information has to be rewritten."
"This paper presents a method for analog computer generation of Bessel functions of arbitrary order. It is shown at the beginning that the direct analog implementation of Bessel differential equation leads to rather inaccurate mathematical models. These inaccuracies are caused by the necessity of dividing nonzero quantity by zero. Based on these considerations this paper suggests a new approach which, transforming the given mathematical model, overcomes the mentioned disadvantages and permits accurate generation of Bessel functions of arbitrary order."
"The paper describes a procedure applicable to analog computers for obtaining the sensitivity function of dynamic systems to parameters that change the order of differential equations. The procedure developed is applied to a problem in error analysis and to a problem in steepest ascent model identification. For purposes of comparison, the sensitivity with respect to normal parameters is also presented."
"By programming pairs of amplifiers to represent the real and imaginary parts of complex variables on an analog computer, techniques are developed which 1) permit the mechanization of the method of steepest descents, for finding roots of complex functions, in Cartesian coordinates; 2) allow the generation of complex functions utilizing the Cauchy integral theorem; 3) enable a programmer to scan the z plane efficiently when electronic mode control and track-and-hold circuitry are available. Examples are given which show that these techniques frequently provide more efficient programs, in terms of equipment, than previous methods."
"In this paper, a method is developed for obtaining cross-correlation functions and autocorrelation functions of signals which are generated by nonstationary processes. The theory of the method is based upon optimal approximation of the ensemble correlation function, when only one pair of signals is available for the correlation analysis. The use of the ensemble approximation approach allows the demonstration of the two uncertainties that always accompany correlation analysis of nonstationary signals. Moreover, this ensemble approximation approach makes possible the development of a mathematical synthesis procedure which specifies the optimal form of a realizable correlation analyzer for nonstationary signals. The synthesis procedure is described in detail for a specific but representative case and then is summarized for other cases. An experimental study has been performed which verifies the theory and demonstrates its effectiveness. The method is particularly suitable for analog and hybrid simulation."
"One of the basic problems of combinational switching circuit theory is that of designing circuits with a minimum number of AND-gates or prime implicants. Algorithms have been formulated for this purpose which first generate all possible prime implicants corresponding to a specified switching function and then select minimal subsets of these prime implicants for use in the formation of the minimal networks [1]-[6]. In practically all the currently available methods of simplification of switching functions, use is made of the minterm type expression specified in the algebraic or its equivalent binary or decimal form. Operations with binary or decimal numbers have become very popular because of their inherent advantages."
"A new method for detection and identification of totally symmetric Boolean functions is developed. Instead of using maps, charts, or truth tables, with permutations and complementations of variables, this method is based on the number of vertices contained in symmetric functions and the concept of distance between two vertices. Since the distance between any two vertices remains invariant under any number of permutations and complementations of the variables, this method lends itself equally conveniently to the detection of total symmetry of Boolean functions with respect to purely uncomplemented, purely complemented, or mixed variables. A procedure is presented, and an example is worked out to illustrate the application of the method."
"Threshold functions are a class of Boolean Functions which have been studied for several years under different names such as majority functions, linearly separable functions, and linear input functions."
"The realization of the output circuit is a topic which has been neglected in current publications in spite of the indisputable importance of the subject. In recent papers dealing with the problem of secondary assignment [1]-[3], [5], the main consideration was given to the transitions between the states and the realization of the circuits that control the secondary variables. In assigning the states of the secondary variables to the blocks of the partitions with substitution property or to the blocks of the partition pairs, we have a considerable amount of freedom. In the present paper it is shown how this freedom is used in order to obtain simpler Output circuits with reduced dependencies. The chief tools in this discussion are the partitions with substitution property in conjunction with the output-consistent partitions. Further it is shown how a simpler output circuit can be obtained by recognizing ``partially independent'' subsets in the output table and by using this property in order to achieve an assignment with reduced dependencies. The concept of partially independent subsets is seen to apply to machines which do not possess any partitions with substitution property or partition pairs and is used as a tool for obtaining simpler secondary assignments as well as simpler output circuits."
"The significance of the coding assignment in linear threshold networks used for pattern recognition has been discussed. A heuristic procedure for generating linearly separable codes for a sample set of patterns has been outlined. Experimental results showing the recognition performance of codes so chosen have been shown. The performance of these codes is comparable to the 1-out-of-n code commonly used, but more optimum codes may exist. More work on the coding assignment problem is in order and should allow more efficient linear threshold networks in the pattern recognition application."
"A classification scheme for DDA structures is presented. Various structures are examined with respect to speed of operation and the case of providing stored interconnections. A class of DDAs with a staggered parallel structure is presented and discussed. The use of this DDA structure together with ultrasonic delay lines allows arbitrary, stored interconnections and DDA operation at approximately analog computer speed and accuracy. Various trades between equipment cost, speed of operation, and the number of integrator units are considered for DDAs in this class."
"Operation of fast analog-hybrid computers at kilocycle iteration rates requires wideband amplifiers, low computing impedances, and electronic track-hold and integrator mode-control switching within tens of nanoseconds. This paper describes the design and circuit analysis of a new switched-amplifer mode-control circuit designed for the University of Arizona's ASTRAC II iterative differential analyzer. The bandwidth of the circuit in track is down 3 dB at 2.5 Mc, which accounts for a phase shift of 0.005 radian (< 0.3 deg) at 10 Kc. The circuits switch into COMPUTE (HOLD) in less than 80 ns; two or more integrators switch within 20 ns of each other. Voltage drift in the TRACK or RESET mode is within ±50 μV/°C between -20 to +60°C."
"An isomorphic notation is introduced to switching circuits which gives a one-to-one correspondence between the equation and the implementation. The application of nested parentheses makes the notation suitable for programming. It maintains essentially the ordinary algebraic equation form and may facilitate the development of more minimization theorems."
"Linear sequential machines are finding an increasing number of uses in error correction, random number generation, and other digital applications. Autonomous behaviors of such machines with nonsingular characteristic matrix have been widely studied. Their state graphs consist of a set of cycles, which is most conveniently described by a cycle set. Analysis and synthesis of such machines have been completely established in terms of cycle sets. The purpose of this paper is to extend the result to the linear machines with singular matrices. The stage graphs of such machines consist of a set of cycles and a tree. The latter part can analogously be described by a tree set. The product and quotient of two tree sets are defined, and it is shown that a tree is realizable by a linear machine if and only if its tree set is a product of canonical tree sets."
"It is shown that the cycles sets of a linear sequential machine with a constant input having no stable state, are derivable from the cycle sets of that same linear sequential machine with a constant 0 input. It is shown that the level sets are independent of the input. A synthesis procedure and an example are presented. The objective of this short paper is to show the relation between the cycle set and level set of a linear sequential autonomous circuit and the cycle set and level set of a linear sequential circuit with a constant input. It was shown Srinivasan [1] that in response to a constant input, the cycle set (C) obtained, is exactly that obtained when another input was applied repetitively, provided that for both these inputs, there exists a stable state (under an input, the next state equals the present state). We ask now if the levels sets (L) are also identical and, more important, what is the state graph of a linear sequential circuit in response to a constant input under which no stable state exists. The parameters cycle sets (number and length of cycles) [2] and level sets (number of states per level in a tree) [3] are examined to see if a constant input will alter them; only the cycle sets are altered, if at all, by a constant input."
"In this short paper it is shown how some simple concepts of group theory are used in the analysis of singular linear sequential machines: specifically it is shown that a set of states called the junction states form a group and more important a subgroup of the group (the set of junction states which belongs to the set of states mapping into the 0 state after 1 unit of time) plays a fundamental role in its relation to synthesis."
"The all-digital simulation of analog or analog-hybrid systems requires that the processing sequence of the elements simulated be admissible in the sense that no element should be processed until the values of all of its input variables are known. This paper presents an algorithm to automatically ascertain an admissible processing sequence from a given interconnection configuration, and to automatically detect any algebraic loops contained therein. As a result, a parallel language, rather than a sequential one, may be used to write source programs for digital simulation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1965."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1965."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A portable, moderate-speed digital recorder is required for the Bronze Pendulum Apparatus of the Dominion Observatory, Canada. A review of available event recording methods reveals that, in general, contemporary recorders are too bulky and consume too much power to be readily adapted to field applications. Consequently, a miniature 30-channel recorder, having a total power consumption of 5 watts and a speed capability of three print-outs per second, has been designed. The operating speed is limited only by the chart transport mechanism, as the recording medium is capable of speeds greater than two thousand print-outs per second."
"Gapped tapes, which are required by most computers, are often difficult or expensive to produce on-line. As a substitute, a reference word or byte may be introduced periodically, or a special track may be devoted to indicating the, beginning of every ith word. A better solution is to use special hardware enabling the machine to search for the reference word. The system in use on the Rice computer is a variation of the special track method. It enables one to start and stop reading anywhere and to minimize the loss of data by reading both forward and backward. Real time needs to be periodically recorded, for example, in place of a normal data word."
"In magnetic surveys it is often more useful to deal with the magnetic field gradients than with the field itself. This paper describes a device which measures magnetic field gradients directly and which is not influenced by uniform magnetic fields. Even if asymmetries exist in the device, the constant part of the magnetic field will appear as a signal with a frequency much different from the signal produced by the field gradients, and this can be easily filtered from the output. Test results on a research model are presented."
"An electromagnetic micropulsation recording system, consisting of an air core coil, input filter, shaping filter, recorder, and a statistical analog computer is described. A major consideration in the design of the system is that it be duplicable with a minimum of available technical facilities."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The limitations on lunar astronomy caused by abberations from the Earth's atmosphere are overcome by the Ranger TV Payload. Pictures with detail improvement of 2000 over Earth-based observations were obtained. The design of TV cameras for a space probe is subject to environmental and operational constraints resulting in a departure from normal TV design practice. The more important design problemns and solutions are discussed."
"Definitions of aural-to-visual and optimum rural-to-visual power ratio in television transmitters are presented. Acceptable sound and picture quality, the history of power ratios, and new proposed standards compatible with the existing television receivers is discussed."
"The principal psychophysical requirements of the human eye are satisfied by a television frame frequency of about 1 or 2 c/s. To avoid flicker with such low-frame rates, a random dot scan is employed in conjunction with long-persistence phosphors. Experiments show that 15 per cent dot flicker is tolerable. Ten systems are discussed, including a two-million-element picture with 4-Mc/s bandwidth; tape recording at 15 in/s; continuous relaying of satellite pictures; short-wave transmission; phonevision; and very low-frame rate applications that use a scan conversion tube."
"A new approach is used for a frequency modulated Exciter: Modulation is accomplished through use of semiconductor capacitive diodes. The AFC System makes use of a counter-type discriminator to stabilize center frequency. A magnetic amplifier is utilized as stable, high gain dc amplifier in the AFC loop. These three novel approaches lead to a simplified reliable equipment."
"A multicartridge audio tape recorder using four plug-in cartridges with only one set of electronics is discussed. The convenience of automatic sequencing and continuous programming over a long time period is covered."
"This paper covers the feasibility of direct television broadcasts from satellites, the problems of sharing with terrestrial stations, questions of co-channel and adjacent channel interference, and the effect of directivity of receiving antennas and detection."
"The new transistorized synchronizing generator is described. It uses prewired modules with reduced space and power requirements compared to previous models. The following two versions are available: the 525-line, 60-field FCC system and the CCIR 625-line, 50-field system with interchangeable moduIes."
"The ambient noise level in which most of us live is continuously increasing. Homes have automatic dishwashers and air conditioners; the highways and the sky are more crowded with noisy vehicles. Have you ever tried to listen to a symphony on your car FM radio?"
"Modern television plants require not only isolated pulse distribution and an emergency changeover to standby sync pulse generators, but in addition require the facility to flexibly assign varying groups of equipment to different designated pulse sources for independent remote sync lock and VTR operations."
"The stringent requirements of the new generation of network and allied audio systems demand a new concept in amplifier characteristics and performance. Amplifier requirements were derived directly from overall systems specifications with allowable deviation allocated to the various components. Results obtained on the new CBS-TV Network Audio Systems Consoles are used to compare with the amplifier design philosophy and the amplifiers are briefly described."
"This paper describes the factors to be considered in designing and constructing a nine-element broadcast directional antenna for Station WISN, Milwaukee, Wisc."
"A new portable, cableless microphone uses an ultraviolet lamp as a transmitting link. The design factors, choice of carrier and modulation and system concept is described."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"An adaptive filter which reconstructs a continuous signal from its samples is described. This filter is based on the minimum mean-square-error reconstruction filter, assuming an all-pole model for the sampled spectral density of the input signal. The use of this model leads to two important simplifications. First, simple linear regression can be used to identify the unknown parameters of the signal spectral density. Second, the resulting filter has an impulse response which is of finite duration. These simplifications lead to an adaptive filter which is at the same time both generally applicable and easily implemented on a digital or hybrid computer. Experiments with both deterministic and random inputs are described which show that the adaptive filter yields significant improvement over a linear point connector or other commonly used reconstructors with relatively low order models and with relatively short identification times."
"Whether arrived at by chance or by design, any network of adaptive logic elements starts with a fixed structure. Attendant with a fixed structure are constraints on performance capabilities. Any task such a network is to learn will be performed in some input environment, and in most practical situations the environment itself will be constrained. These latter constraints imply the existence of certain relationships among the inputs. It is held that for the net to perform any given task well, the structure of the net must be matched to the relationships in the environment which are pertinent to the task. This paper discusses these ideas and presents an approach, which uses the theory of decomposition of switching functions, for matching the structure of a network with the constraints in the environment pertinent to the task."
"The optimum operation for the smoothing of time series to minimize mean square error is well known when the signal and noise statistics are completely available. When the statistics of either or both are partially or completely unknown, however, there exists no universally agreed upon optimum procedure. This paper considers the problem of linear smoothing when the noise is additive, signal independent with first and second moments known while the signal statistics are completely unknown. This case is of practical interest since frequently signal assumptions are difficult to make whereas the noise can usually be assumed to be sample-to-sample uncorrelated with mean zero and known variance. This latter assumption of known noise power can be relaxed in some instances as will be discussed in a future paper."
"A sequential adaptive economic decision process can generally be broken down into three interrelated sequential processes. The first is a stochastic environmental process; the second is a historical process which generates a record of the past environmental events; and the third is the decision process itself. Many different kinds of historical processes are possible. Heuristic processes are briefly considered but this paper is mainly concerned with the Bayesian process. Assuming a beta a priori probability function a maximum liklihood estimate function or subjective probability function can be developed for the decision maker's use. A decision process generally implies that the decision maker will display some optimal behavior pattern. It will be assumed that the decision maker seeks to maximize the rate of growth of his personal resources. This assumption leads to the formulation of the sequential adaptive process as a dynamic programming problem. The solution of the dynamic programming problem leads to an optimal policy for the decision maker which is the \"best\" he can do with only limited information about his environmental process. As time passes the optimal policy improves and approaches, in the probability limit, the \"best\" that can be done having full information about the environmental process. The expected rate of growth of the decision maker's resources is a function of his subjective view of the entropy of the environment and as time passes this expected rate of growth approaches, in the probability limit, a function of the actual entropy of the environment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The recent introduction of numerous organc and semi semi-organic electrical insulating materials emphasizes the need to n investigate tracking resistance. Many test methods for the purpose of testing the surface failure of insulating materials have been e devised; each one has some advantage and fault due to the required test conditions. Consequently it seems difficult to choose the standard rd method for the evaluation of tracking resistance. The IEC recommended test method [1] for the property has been thought to be a reliable method until now, however even the IEC method has some faults. It is not suitable for testing materials having high tracking resistance, and the electrolytic solution dropped on the surface of insulator specimen may influence test results differently depending on the sorts of materials tested. The authors carried out a study on the dry test method of surface electrical failure of organic insulators with a view to eliminating the faults described above, and compared it with other test methods."
"The industry has long recognized that thermal cycling and thermal shock resistances of enameled wire play an important part in determing the thermal life by AIEE 57 test methods. Data are presented for varying thermal cycling indicating significant arivariation of temperature classification roughly from Class 155°C to Class 105°C for the same wire enamel. It is also shown that if the thermal cycling procedure is held constant, reasonable conformity of test results can be expected."
"Discharges at a dielectric surface are obtained using a metal sphere separated by a distance of 0.002 inch from a 0.0005 inch thick dielectric. The magnitude and temporal distribution of the discharges is monitored by photomultiplier detection and magnetic recording. A change in the distribution of the pulse agni magnitudes is observed as the time of voltage applications is increased. There is a decrease in the number of low and high level discharges and an increase in those of intermediate magnitude. The effect is associated with the deterioration of the dielectric. This change in the magnitude distribution is more rapid as the applied electric field is increased. Also, when the metal sphere is positive there are fewer pulses and the magnitude of the pulses is less than when the sphere is negative. The fact that an equal amount of charge is not involved on alternate half cycles is surprising. It is not due to faulty instrumentation. The difference in pulse magnitude due to polarity is associated with electron trapping and/or retention of positive charge by the dielectric."
"The results of some of the work which guided the preparation of a Proposed Test Procedure for Thermal Evaluation of Rigid Electrical Insulating Materials is reported. Long-term thermal aging data for laminates is presented. It is found that om comparative thermal life is often dependent on property criterion and end-point. A Test Procedure should, therefore, provide universal data. It is concluded that AIEE ID requires revision."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The electric strengths of sodium chloride, polythene, and polymethyl methacrylate were measured using direct and impulse voltages at room temperature. The effects of specimen thickness, electrode radius, and rate of rise of applied field are different in degree from material to material indicating the importance of prebreakdown conditions. It is suggested that the final breakdown mechanism is of the avalanche type, heating by prebreakdown current and the formation of space charges being factors affecting its occurrence."
"Thermal endurance tests to AIEE Standard 57 [1] have been performed in six laboratories each using self-prepared varnished specimens made from a common sample of polyester enameled wire and polyester varnish. The results have been analysed to test the hypothesis of the departure from linearity of the relationship between the logarithm of life and the inverse of the absolute temperature, with the object of subsequent limited extrapolation. Two features of this paper are the inclusion of a distribution-free test for further confirmation of the significance of the departure from linearity, and the presentation of the extrapolated results in the additional form of estimated temperatures for a number of specified mean lives. The variation between the results of different laboratories and methods involving a reduction in testing time are considered. Comparison is made with previous work [2] undertaken in six laboratories on PVA enameled wire specimens, prepared and impregnated with an oil-modified phenolic varnish by a single laboratory, and with published AIEE results."
"There is continual need for the evaluation of the electric strength of the various new gases that are becoming available and their comparison with the electric strength of some standardsuch as air. The impulse voltage strength of a new gas is not easily and quickly obtained, yet is essential in the proper design of equipment using these gases. It is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly the equipment that was used for this impulse voltage testing work, and to record some impulse voltage breakdown data on octofluoropropane (C3F8) and its comparison to air."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This issue of these Transactions represents the first publication of a new IEEE group, Systems Science and Cybernetics (G-SSC). The areas of systems science and cybernetics are difficult to describe since descriptors mean different things to different people. The present terms were chosen because they come closer to the connotation of the things that members of the group are working on than many other new, coined words. New terms were not chosen as they would only tend to confuse an already diffuse area. The scope of the G-SSC encompasses the treatment of the science that is common to all large collections of interacting functional units that together achieve a defined purpose. This includes analysis, simulation, synthesis, implementation, evaluation, and the consideration of the uncertainties of system parameters. Also included are matters pertaining to the theory and design of communication and control in natural and synthetic systems, including biologicaland behaviorial systems. Areas of interest include such interdisciplinary subjects as bionics, artificial intelligence, and self-organizing systems, and such aspects as modeling, optimization, and general theory."
"This paper considers various ways of defining systems engineering and surveys the systems engineering process. Part of the process is then applied to the problem of the Systems Science Committee."
"Operations Research's interest in systems is confined to normative aspects of systems which are at least partially self-controllable. A mathematical scheme is developed for representing the structure and behavior of such systems. By use of this scheme it is possible to isolate and measure inefficiencies caused by structure, communications, decision making, and by any combination of these. The effect of structure on inefficiency due to communications and decision making is also subject to analysis. Finally, two methods of centralized control of \"less-than-optimally\" structured systems are described: adjustment of parameters and the use of constraints."
"The process of finding the optimum design of a complex system involves the use of a great deal of human judgment. From the dawn of civilization, man has, by judgment alone, produced designs close to being optimum. Today, the engineer has the fantastically powerful tool of the digital computer to help him with design problems. But it must always be borne in mind that the computer is no more than a tool. It cannot do the entire job. To achieve the best results, the engineer must guide the computer with great care and perception. The presence of a computer does not relieve the man from the need to use his judgment. If anything, the need for good judgment is now greater than ever before, because there is more to be lost by poor judgment. The approach to the design optimization of a complex system should be methodical. First of all, a design arrangement must be chosen. Optimization techniques are of no use until such an arrangement is finalized. Secondly, the proper performance rating function must be selected and a satisfactory mathematical model constructed to describe the system. Since there must be a marriage between model and optimization technique, the choice of technique must be kept in mind while the modeling is in progress. A small modification in the model may permit use of a different technique to achieve quicker or more general results."
"Dynamic programming is applicable to routing problems where the objective is to find the route between two points which will minimize some cost function. Although the computational procedure to find the solution to routing problems is more complex than for the majority of dynamic programming problems, solution algorithms are available and can be readily applied. Such an algorithm is presented; and, as an example of routing problems that are readily handled by dynamic programming, the route which minimizes the cost of constructing a pipeline between Fostoria, Ohio, and Columbus, Ohio, is determined."
"Systems science means many things to many people. This paper surveys various aspects of education labelled systems science. It reviews the literature in the field and reviews sample course and program offerings. Examination of this material indicates a lack of agreement among practitioners of systems science education and indeed casts doubt upon whether systems science is a unique science at all. The purpose of the paper is twofold: First, as a preliminary to a panel discussion among practitioners of systems science education it is meant to be provocative, and second, since it is clearly not the last word on the subject it is meant to be inspirational to more and better work in the future. This second objective is especially pertinent in light of the formation of a working group in the field."
"This paper discusses methods for calculating reliability and availability of systems. The example used assumes the exponential distribution, but the method of Section III is even more useful in other cases. Well-known general methods are briefly reviewed in Section II. A little-used but sometimes highly practical method is presented in Sections III and IV for use when the time period involved is (relatively) short. It involves a systematic investigation of the various possible patterns of failures and repairs, beginning with the simplest patterns that can cause system failure and progressing only as far as necessary to attain the accuracy required, calculating the contributions each makes to unreliability and the possible contributions of all the not-yet considered patterns."
"This paper shows how modern developments in statistical decision theory can be applied to a typical systems engineering problem. The problem is how to design an experiment to evaluate a reliability parameter for a device and then make a decision about whether to accept a contract for the development and maintenance of a system of these devices. We introduce the concept of subjective probability distribution to permit encoding prior knowledge about the uncertainty in the process. The expected value of clairvoyance is computed as an upper bound to the value of any experimental program. The structure of decision trees serves as a means for establishing the optimum size and type of experimentation and for acting on the basis of experimental results. The subjective probability approach to decision processes allows us to consider and solve problems that previously we could not even formulate."
"This paper uses a specific example of a relatively simple socio-economic system to demonstrate a methodology for developing state models of socio-economic systems in terms of the structural features of the system. Numerical values of the parameters in the resulting model are either determined from past records of the organization or are obtainable from surveys. A computer solution is presented to indicate the general nature of the performance characteristics that can be simulated with such a model."
"This paper describes a computer simulation study of role conflict using Homunculus, an operating computer model based on George Homans' theory of elementary social behavior. The role conflict data selected for simulation come from the senior author's questionnaire study of the impact of personal preference and reference-group pressures on decisions concerning role performance. Three variations of the computer simulation are described; each successive reformulation produced an increased correlation between the behavior of the simulated and the real individuals. The results demonstrate that through computer simulation it is possible to test alternative theoretical formulations and to choose the one producing data best approximating responses from living subjects. The data generated follow as direct consequences of the information processing routines that operationally express the hypotheses; thus, the results involve no extraneous unverbalized, or unprogrammed, influences."
"Crisiscom is a computer representation of a set of human decision makers who process information, and of the exchanges of information among them. Information is generated by each simulated human from imbalances among the cognitive elements and relations which comprise his system. The total information generated within the set is too great for any one human being to incorporate. Crises are characterized by high rates of generation and exchange of information. Hypotheses from the social sciences about selective exposure to and selective perception of information determine how inputs to the models of the human system are limited and distorted. As a result of this distortion, each decision maker has an incomplete and imperfect picture of his environment. It is with this picture that he initiates relationships and generates further information."
"An adaptive method of generating a set of correlation patterns for measuring the characteristics of unknown patterns is discussed. The correlation patterns change with time to follow slow changes in the configuration of the inputs so that they remain optimum for the most recent inputs. The relationship between the changing set of measurement patterns and the actual identification process is discussed. Results of experiments with a simulated system are presented."
"In an earlier paper, the author showed how Wiener's Hermite-Laguerre expansion procedure for synthesizing nonlinear functionals could be used to synthesize decision functions for a broad class of continuous stochastic inputs. Furthermore, self-adaptive or learning properties were noted. In the present paper, the relevance of this procedure to cybernetic problems is discussed. In particular, the procedure is applied to the multiple-alternative discrete decision problem with learning characteristic of the recognition processes inherent in adaptive (learning) control. Both sequential and nonsequential procedures are discussed. The resulting model is analogous to a generalized Bayes net type of pattern recognizer or decision maker. However, it is distinguished from the usual Bayes net by rather unique initial conditioning and updating capabilities, its computational or circuit realization, and the fact that its size is determined by rather different considerations from those governing the number of elements in the classical model. Relevant aspects and procedures in cybernetics, intelligence, and learning are discussed and related to the present model. Some problem areas and possible applications worthy of further investigation are discussed."
"A servoanalysis of the feedback control system for lens accommodation has been based upon experimental evidence designed to explore the nonlinear properties. Because these nonlinearities are essential to the functioning of the system, a describing function approach was employed. Computation served to obtain open-loop characteristics. The transfer function of the linear part is F( s) = 4 ( 1 + 0.15s) e-0.\" s ( 1 + 2 [ 0.3( 0.08)] + ( 0.08s) 2) ( 4) and some assignments of portions of this equation to the physical elements of the lens system are suggested. The no-memory nonlinearity has general saturation characteristics; two related models, one with quite unusual aspects, are presented, and independent evidence for these adduced. The combined model accounts for large and small signal responses, stability characteristics, predicts certain noise spectral features of the openand closed-loop lens system. Phase discrepancies, possible sampled data properties, and the even-error-signal operator put forward crucial new experiments."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Automatic control system reliability can be much higher than generally imagined, but new methods currently available for coping with the increasing degree of complexity must be learned. In the past, efforts have been costly but without worthwhile results. New ways force failure to reveal more knowledge sooner. They use the exception principle of \"A few things usually control\" to isolate weak-link failure modes and to discover unexpected variables which influence results most."
"Many characteristics of the gas turbine make it the ideal source of energy for emergency power systems. This paper describes a 750-kW gas turbine-alternator system which was designed for use as stand-by power in telephone offices."
"This paper considers a conicoid contact as a general case of contact geometry and derives the resistance of the contact when heated by the passage of an electric current. The expressions for the resistance of circular and hemispherical contacts are shown to be particular cases of this phenomenon. The analysis includes bimetal contacts and the impedance of a contact to alternating current. The paper further endeavors to explain low-voltage coherer action in copper contacts in terms of the softening of the parent metal. Experimental results are given to show that, after the rupture of the oxide film, the contact resistance of copper follows a metallic characteristic until melting occurs. Experimental results are also given for the resistance of carbon contacts carrying direct and alternating current."
"During the past 20 years, a number of installations have been made with fluorescent lamps operating at frequencies higher than 60 cycles. Generally, the frequency-conversion method has been limited by economics and availability to frequencies under 1000 c/s. With development of the silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR), the semiconductor frequency converter emerged as a reality and frequencies of more than 1000 c/s became practical and economical for fluorescent lighting of commercial and industrial buildings. This paper reports on high-frequency fluorescent lighting in which a new product converts 60-c/s power to 3000-c/s power."
"The activity in total-electric projects throughout the United States has increased significantly during the past several years. The Cedarbrook Hill Project represents one of the first successful building complexes to be designed using only electricity for control of environment. This project was conceived six years ago by Jack W. Merriam, a successful Philadelphia apartment builder, owner, and businessman."
"The testing of low-voltage power circuit breakers equipped with series-trip units has long been a neglected activity. Failures of these devices to trip on faults have caused the realization that actual high-current testing is needed. Little attention has been given by users of low-voltage power circuit breakers to these devices other than occasional dressing of contacts and manual tripping and reclosing. Many of those who have concerned themselves with testing have felt that field testing involved procedures and equipment too cumbersome to be practical."
"The Revenue Requirements (RR) method of economic analysis is discussed. The F factor for fixed investment charges against both present and future investments when allowance is made for risk is derived. Further, the components of F factor of minimum acceptable earnings, capital recovery, income taxes, and fixed expense expressed as a fraction of investment are found. The paper shows how to apply the RR method, and examples of the application of the method to typical economic justifications of automation involving digital computers are given."
"Recent developments in electric tracing as a medium to facilitate the flow of viscous material in pipelines have placed a valuable aid at the disposal of the process designer. An attempt has been made in this paper to update the knowledge of electric tracing. Discussed are the installation of electric tracing on systems not compatible with custom-made heaters and the design of heaters for those who prefer to fabricate their own MI-cable electric-tracing system. The paper contains various data and illustrations useful in the design of pipeline tracing."
"As our country grows and its engineers develop new concepts and materials to prolong the life of buried metallic structures, we all should be aware and ready to reap the benefits. With the ever increasing development and use of underground structures, the chances of electrolytic corrosion causing damage also increases. The application of cathodic protection with rectifier installations is becoming more economical and popular with the larger underground users. This technique need not cause stray current damage to other underground structures if adequate coordination is available to all underground users."
"After a short historical review of the use of semiconductor junctions as rectifiers, first in control circuits and then in the application to auxiliaries on locomotives and MU (multiple unit) cars, the use of silicon on main power rectifiers on these vehicles in place of ignitrons is examined, especially in France where 50-cycle single-phase electrical traction is now extensively used and is the only system applied on all new lines. After a survey of the new problems which appear in conjunction with the use of semiconductor rectifiers, some of the most recent applications in France are described briefly. Attention is called to the fact that 25 locomotives and MU cars are in service and 182 are in the process of being built. Future uses are diesel-electric locomotives with ac generators and rectifiers, substations for main lines, and silicon-controlled rectifiers (SCRs) for auxiliary functions and main circuits, with the voltage control and the possibility of inverter operation combined in the same equipment for a new prototype locomotive."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The high intensity which can be obtained by focusing the pulsed energy emitted by a ruby laser offers much potential as a tool for nearly forceless machining. The method can be used on any material, regardless of thermal properties, which can be evaporated without decomposition, including almost all ceramics and metals."
"This paper reviews system design problems that frequently are not recognized early enough in the design of an industrial power distribution system to avoid awkward, troublesome, and sometimes costly changes. Most of the problems result from unusual or infrequent circumstances or unforeseen situations. Many are recurrent, however, indicating a lack of sufficient coverage in the literature. These problems have been selected from the authors' experiences as manufacturers of switchgear, in the interpretation of specifications for the functional requirements of switchgear for many industrial power systems."
"The centralized off-plot control facilities for a new refinery include automatic remote control of product blending and shipping, automatic remote tank gauging, control of marketing operations, and central monitoring of major equipment and process alarm status, as well as refinery-wide communication and alerting systems."
"The electrical distribution system at John F. Kennedy International Airport was designed as an expandable system. This paper reviews the growth to date and outlines the design plans for future expansion."
"Guidelines are presented for the design of an economical and reliable power supply and distribution system for rapid transit. Silicon rectifier substations are exclusively applied in modem systems, but opinions differ with regard to their size and location. The paper discusses these questions."
"Techniques are presented here for graphically determining relay response to varying current, such as generator decrement, and for allowing for fault impedance voltage in coordinating voltage-restrained overcurrent relays and inverse-time undervoltage relays."
"This paper includes practical application data and describes the important features involved in the use of wound-rotor induction motors with liquid rheostats for variable-speed compressor drives in semihazardous refinery areas. Specfically, it describes the actual installation of a 4000-hp motor driving a high-speed rotary compressor through gears, where a speed control of approximately 20 per cent is desired. Photographs of the installation are included, as well as summary of the first year of actual operation, the difficulties experienced, and remedial measures taken."
"The accurate prediction of load characteristics-maximum daily load cycles as well as annual energy usage-is essential for the development of the electric space heating market by electric utilities. Adequate measurements of existing installations, the most reliable method of load analysis, is impossible for new heating device concepts or if the installations do not exist. A commonly used method of load characteristic calculation that relates heating load linearly with temperature is not reliable because of wind velocity, solar radiation, and intemal building heat sources such as lights. An hour-by-hour heat loss calculation, utilizing hourly weather data, is required to predict accurate heating load cycle characteristics."
"This paper describes a training school in electronics to update the electricians and instrument men in a large petroleum refinery. This school, held during working hours, combined formal classroom instruction and laboratory practice with test equipment and electronic circuits. The topics covered include class size, length of course, textbooks, selection of students, equipment furnished, instructors, course outline, testing, and cost."
"This paper suggests a practical manner in which the commutation characteristics of a rectifier diode may be presented. It gives quantitative recovery data for two popular types of diffused 250-ampere rectifier diodes in terms of circuit parameters. The recovered charge of the diode under prevailing circuit conditions is used, and quantitative data are given for the selection of appropriate protective circuitry."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The subject of this paper is the operating experience of Aluminum Company of Canada, Ltd., with the electric drives and control systems of a high-performance 84-inch cold rolling mill. Comparative horsepower energy curves for aluminum alloys are shown, and selection of the drive motors, together with actual performance data, are discussed."
"Analysis of the 3-phase bridge can be simplified by using line-to-neutral waveforms as an intermediate stage to obtaining the dc output, and the rectifier circuit element waveforms. Some interesting insights into the action of two particular bridge circuits are discussed, using this method."
"Although the use of electricity to produce heat is by no means new to the American household, the extent of electric heating has increased tremendously during the past decade. Today, because of the drastically reduced cost of electric-power, electricity is becoming even more popular as a method of home heating."
"The design of a rolling mill drive requires an evaluation of the process requirements as they affect the selection of electrical equipment. Industrial customers have recognized this system approach in all forms of drives. In high production metal rolling, there has been great progress in the application of electrical equipment and the development of high-performance components."
"A high-accuracy steam valve controller which uses a dc motor and gear train to position a steam valve shaft is described. The system responds to an error signal derived from the difference between an input reference and an output feedback signal. The error signal is amplified to control two firing pulse generators. The firing pulse generator's drive a set of eight SCRs in a dual bridge configuration, providing bidirectional armature drive for a 1/6-hp 115-volt dc motor. The system could easily be modified to handle larger motors by using larger devices in the dual bridge power circuit."
"It is shown that smooth nonreversible control of the unbalanced voltages applied to a 3-phase load may be obtained by using one or two back-to-back SCR pairs. The magnitude of the fundamental components of the nonsinusoidal load voltages can be accurately calculated by Fourier series. Two connections are given which yield smooth reversible voltages, suitable for 3-phase motor control."
"Several techniques are available for the design of reversible armature power supplies. The approach described in this paper results in a very high performance system and retains the high conversion efficiency of a single converter bridge. A unique firing circuit and regulator design allows the transfer characteristics of the two converter bridges to be coincident. Logic circuitry is used to select the operating bridge dependent on system requirements Performance characteristics are discussed with particular reference to test results obtained from a 100-hp reversing screw-down supply."
"The appearance of large numbers of battery-powered appliances on the market in recent years has focused attention on small rechargeable batteries. The latest of these to become available is the lead battery which, because of inherent performance and cost advantages, is likely to capture a major share of the market. The reasons for this are discussed, and several examples of use are presented."
"Solid-state lighting control will offer a great variety of both conventional and unique control capabilities to the lighting designer. Among these are feedback dimming, soft start, snap on, magnetic tape and optical programming, and frequency inversion. Special design considerations are voltage and current surges, audible hum, and radio noise."
"The paper describes the electrical facilities required for a modem rolling mill. Emphasis is placed on control room layout, motor and static panel ventilation, and layout of auxiliary equipment. Other features covered include primary distribution, bus work, wiring methods, noise control, and elimination of a separate motor room bay and crane, as well as several minor features that depart from accepted design patterns."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"REFERENCES TO THE concept of continuous casting of metals are found in literature dating as far back as 1840. Machines were actually constructed in the mid 1800s for the continuous casting of long sections, such as pipes, of nonferrous materials. Since that time, there have been many modifications of the basic ideas, and a large percentage of nonferrous materials are now fabricated by continuous casting."
"The three types of fluorescent lamp dimming systems used today are variable voltage, variable impedance, and variable time. From the standpoint of performance, the variable-time system has proved superior. However, early variable-time dimming systems utilized the thyratron as the controllable switch, and the cost, size, and reliability of the system limited its success. With the introduction of the silicon-controlled rectifier, an economical, reliable, and compact variable-time fluorescent dimming system was made possible. A special dirmning ballast was designed to be used with the silicon-controlled-rectifier dimming control; this design is discussed in detail. The associated circuitry required by the silicon-controlled rectifier when used in a fluorescent dimming system is also included."
"The series resistance-inductance circuit controlled by triggering of a silicon-controlled rectifier pair results in load voltage and current of different nonsinusoidal waveforms. Rigorous analysis of the harmonic voltages and currents results in calculated values agreeing very closely with measurements. The effective power factor is found to remain almost constant at the sinusoidal value. Fundamental load power can be accurately measured with a wattmeter in some cases."
"The design of the floodlighting installation at the George Washington Bridge, a vehicular and pedestrian crossing of the Hudson River, between the states of New York and New Jersey is described."
"This paper discusses the transient disturbances in the performance of continuous rolling mills producing steel bars and rods caused by the passage of bar ends through multistrand mills. Quantitative measurement of these disturbances is discussed."
"This paper is designed to brief engineers on proposed changes in the 1965 National Electrical Code affecting the design of industrial and commercial power systems. Numbers of the new or revised sections of the 1965 code are listed, together with a brief outline of each change and its purpose or effect. Minor changes and revisions not affecting industrial and commercial power system design have been omitted. If further details are desired on a particular revision, reference should be made to the 1965 Code."
"Phase converters may employ autotransformers to step up voltage in conjunction ' ith series capacitors. Their use permits relaxation of many limitations on capacitor-only phase-converter applications. The phase converters now available, as described in the paper, have numerous advantages, the chief of which are listed here: 1) their circuits provide balanced 3-phase currents to 3-phase induction motors from single-phase lines; 2) the starting kilovoltamperes required are much less than the amount required for single-or 3-phase motors on balanced 3-phase lines; 3) power factors are improved throughout the motors' operating range; 4) starting torques compare favorably with those of single-phase motors; 5) startirg kilovoltamperes per foot pound are less than for any single-or 3-phase motor; 6) the cost of autotransformer-phase converters and 3-phase motors is competitive with the cost of single-phase motors; 7) the simplicity of 3-phase motors reduces maintenance; 8) where 3-phase power may eventually become available, 3-phase motors can be used immediately from a single-phase line through converters at about 82-percent efficiency, which surpasses that of many single-phase motors; and 9) converter units of given horsepower ratings may be used with motors smaller than these ratings."
"In general, electric power systems for hospitals will be designed following the well-established principles of commercial building power system design. In particular, they include one new power system design situation. For safety in the explosive atmospheres of anesthetizing and anesthetic storage areas, an isolated power system (no solid system grounding) is mandatory, although the rest of the system will be solidly grounded at the service entrance."
"This paper presents the problems encountered in the underground medium-voltage distribution system at a large manufacturing facility of Western Electric Company, Inc. Three inservice faults and subsequent test failures were experienced within a 5-month period in 1963. A dc overpotential test program was initiated, as a result of which, the decision was made to replace the entire underground system."
"This paper explains a new concept in egg handling, involving a completely automatic system which gathers and processes eggs at the producer level. The result of the processing is cartoned eggs ready for the retail market."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Everyone in electrical and electronic engineering has become aware, in one manner or another, of the rapid pace of technological change. Generally, the relatively small percentage of individuals who are right in the middle of creating this great technological change do keep abreast. They write and read state-of-the-art papers, attend technical sessions, participate in research, and apply the new technology to produce better operating equipment. There is no great need to further encourage these people to participate more fully in IEEE activities. Even though they are relatively few in number, they make major contributions to our Groups, our publications, our committees, and our meetings. I do believe, however, that there is a great need for the vast majority of us in IEEE to move closer to this \"cutting edge.\" The IEEE has been making organizational changes aimed at doing just that-the IEEE Group system allows each of us to move closer to the changes taking place in the area of our particular concern. Yet the basic breadth of IEEE should foster cross-pollination, so that a change that occurs because of research in a supposedly unrelated discipline will not surprise us when it forces its way into an established equipment area."
"Industry today is constantly striving for increased product yield, quality improvement, and consistency of products. These gains are being made by the sophistication of production machinery and their electrical drive equipment. This is accomplished in many industries by the inherent flexibility of dc rotating apparatus."
"The motor and generator section of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) has adopted new suggested standards for future design which assign higher horsepower rating to a given motor frame size. The rerating will make available standard 1-to 50-hp ac motors smaller by two frames than those motors produced in the past; this will, later, affect ratings to 200 hp. Per rating reductions of 50 percent of volume and 75 percent of weight are shown to be typical. Development of improved and new materials plus advancements in the art of polyphase induction motor design, are given as factors that make the revision possible."
"This paper describes the Long Island Rail Road's selection, purchase, and installation of substation 12 M, the first outdoor silicon rectifier for electric traction use in the United States. Because of the great interest at this time in rail rapid transit in the United States as well as many other countries around the world, concrete information on actual installations of this \"new breed\" of high-efficiency low-maintenance cost rectifier in all-outdoor housing should be of interest to many people. This information includes 1) a brief history of silicon rectifier use in electric traction systems, 2) a description of the Long Island Rail Road's electrification equipment and some typical rush-hour train loadings, 3) details of site work and field assembly for a 3000-kW outdoor silicon rectifier, 4) description of rectifier and switchgear equipment, 5) performance and maintenance experience after approximately one year's operation, 6) some general cost figures for a 3000-kW silicon recitifier station installed on Long Island, and 7) conclusions on the specific advantages of silicon rectifiers of the outdoor type for traction use."
"Proper voltage selection for certain size ac motors is very important in providing the most overall economic installation within good engineering practice. In addition to determining motor equipment costs, there are certain areas of motor horsepower ratings where the engineer must analyze the application and situation present in his plant in order to select the most economical voltage and machine to do a job. A number of factors such as motor equipment costs, construction, plant systems, type of motor, application, efficiency, power factor, and safety and codes are discussed in relation to motor voltage selection. A study was made on relative costs for 440-and 2300-volt induction and synchronous motors, complete with controls and substations, covering a range from 50 to 800 horsepower. Cost curves at speed ratings from 1800 r/min to 720 r/min show the approximate horsepower breakpoint and cost relationships as a function of motor horsepower. A brief discussion is presented on equipment costs when operating ac motors from 4160 and 13 200 primary voltages"
"In 1927, a modem vehicular tunnel lighting system consisted of incandescent lamps mounted within the tunnel walls to provide illumination on the roadway. New York's Holland Tunnel, which was opened to traffic during that year, was designed with such a lighting system. In 1960, it was decided to modernize this system. To accomplish this, a new fluorescent lighting fixture and system that had to provide a high level of illumination in the tunnel while utilizing and adapting the existing tunnel electrical system at minimum cost, was designed, developed, and installed."
"Since its introduction into the home, the clothes dryer has received many modifications and improvements. One of the most recent has been the addition of an electronic control, which terminates the drying cycle when the clothes have reached the appropriate dryness. After loading the machine, the housewife sets the control for the degree of dryness desired; the dryer will automatically turn off when this point is reached."
"This paper describes a fast easy method for determining expected surge voltage with the help of traveling-wave theory. The intent is to assist the Design Engineer in deciding what degree of surge protection should be provided and where to locate it."
"Subjective color techniques have been adapted to the field of electroluminescent display to produce six distinct colors from an essentially monochromatic source. The system required to achieve this effect includes a frame sequential presentation of scheduled intensity patterns of diverse spectral content. The patterns are generated by varying the voltage applied to the appropriate display areas, while the shifting of impressed frequency controls the primary output color. Subjective complements are generated in the darker areas and mixed with the primaries to form a variety of hues, depending on the relative intensity of the components."
"A method is described which has been used to reduce the difficulties encountered on several old delta-ungrounded systems. Data are included which will help in applying this to any particular power system. The scheme gives an alarm whenever a ground fault occurs, permits everything to keep running even more assuredly than with an ungrounded system, and provides a method for quickly locating the fault. Circuit diagrams and photographs of actual equipment are included, and operating practice is summarized."
"Industrial power transformers are subjected to variable loads and atmospheric conditions. Taking these variables into account, transformers can be loaded above nameplate rating, for short periods of time and under day-to-day operating conditions, without reducing the transformer life span. Transformers can also be overloaded by a greater amount during emergency conditions but, in this case the transformer life will be shortened by a certain percentage. Different methods used to calculate transformer overloads will be discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The burning of clinker in a rotary kiln is the balancing of heat requirements and heat inputs. Typical control loops to achieve this balance are outlined. Instrumentation requires maintenance which has three phases: repair, continuous adjustment, and updating. Suggestions for future additional automatic controls are introduced."
"Raw grinding systems are not standardized because of the different types of raw materials available, whether wet or dry grinding is used, and because of the many types of equipment used. Typical loops used in a dry grinding and a wet grinding system are described."
"This paper was developed to introduce the showing of slides depicting damage to industrial distribution apparatus from sustained arcing and fire. The pictures selected from accident case histories should serve as evidence of the need for improved coordination and protection of industrial power systems. A systematic periodic maintenance practice is suggested and strongly encouraged to detect impending trouble before faults occur. This is a rewarding investment towards assuring continued reliable and profitable productive operation. While this undoubtedly will reduce the frequency of trouble, faults do occur from any one of a number of unforeseeable reasons in the best of installations. Proper coordination and adequate protection can mean the difference between a minor accident or a catastrophe."
"The central area of the City of Chicago, in recent years, has been experiencing vigorous building activity which appears to be intensifying rather than abating. Two of the most imaginative projects under way are the Holiday Inn and Carlyle Condominium, both of which are now under construction on Lake Shore Drive overlooking Lake Michigan."
"Recent progress in semiconductor controlled rectifier components (the major type of thyristor) will be reviewed. As a result of advances in dynamic characteristics, SCRs are now applicable to equipments operating under severe transient conditions and at frequencies ranging into the ultrasonic spectrum. A number of other types of thyristors have been developed for special control and static power conversion applications. Among the devices described are the 4-layer diode, the light-activated SCR, the gate turn-off switch, the silicon controlled switch, and both the diode and the triode bidirectional thyristors. While lagging behind the SCR in acceptance, these newer types of thyristors can be expected to have an equally profound impact on the power conversion and control fields."
"A comprehensive, yet fundamental, treatment of the design of industrial electric system protection would be both valuable and timely. This paper is intended to stimulate interest in such a publication, comment on the need for it, and suggest its content and organization. Contributions to the publication can be made in the fonn of technical papers, all or part of which may be later incorporated in the proposed publication."
"A complex of material-handling machinery is employed in a unique manner to move 77.5 million cubic yards of rock and dirt 12 miles up the Feather River. The heart of the system is a giant wheel excavator, which fills a 110-ton railroad car every minute. From the wheel, the material is taken via belt conveyors and a railroad to a stockpile located near the dam site; here it is placed on a storage pile, segregated into pervious, impervious, and sand piles, where it is reclaimed in the proper mixtures to satisfy the placement plan."
"The general equations which determine the design of both the 180-and the 360-c/s interphase transformer (IPT) will be deduced. Their corresponding graphs for different values of commutating reactances will also be plotted. These studies will be conducted in the general case of power rectifiers with phase control, but the particular case of no phase control will be considered."
"The specifications and requirements for water level control in clothes washers and dishwashers have become more demanding, requiring a more thorough assessment of all the variables and characteristics involved."
"In a large chemical plant built in 1946, a 6900-volt ungrounded primary distribution system was installed initially. After approximately ten years of operation, in which the plant electrical load had increased to approximately twice its original value, it was decided to convert to high-resistance grounding on the 6900-volt system. Shortly after the installation of the high-resistance grounding system, a number of large (700 to 2250 hp) induction motors were installed in the plant. The addition of these motors and their associated surge protection capacitors made it necessary to increase the capacity of the 6900-volt high-resistance grounding bank. The increase in this grounding bank capacity, and the corresponding increase in the maximum 6900-volt ground fault current to approximately 30 amperes, resulted in the need to develop a relaying system which was sensitive enough to protect the large 6900-volt induction motors adequately for ground faults. A number of relay schemes employing both conventional electromechanical and static relays were investigated. A relaying scheme which protects these 6900-volt motors for ground faults as low as approximately 1 ampere was developed and installed at this plant to supplement the normal complement of relays which had originally been installed on the motors."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1965."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the title page of volume 4 of the Physics of Failure in Electronics proceedings record."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"It is quite important to find a general degradation model for prediction and acceleration of component life under any stress condition, both for constant and variable stress conditions. For this purpose, the reaction theory gives a most powerful basis. Under the assumption of cumulative degradation, a general degradation model which is essentially applicable not only to electrical components but also to mechanical elements has been developed. The validity of the model has been investigated by experiments of some electronic components. Applications of this principle to component life estimation are also illustrated."
"The procedure for the testing, screening, and lot rejection of integrated circuits for the Apollo Guidance and Navigation Computer is described. The procedure, based on a knowledge of failure modes, failure mechanisms and contributing causes to failures in the manufacturing of devices, attempts to increase the reliability of integrated circuits. This is accomplished by screening and analyzing weak devices and using the generated data to quantitatively assess the lot for acceptance, rework or rejection. The technique, which is primarily aimed toward high-usage high-volume devices, was developed after extensive testing of many tens of thousands of integrated circuits. The process documents included in the appendix contain stress test procedures, classification of failure modes, numerical rejection limits per class of failure modes, internal visual rejection criteria, and leak test procedures. To emphasize the need for the described technique, data is presented showing variations among vendors and variation among procurement lots shipped from a single vendor. The contributing factors to the variations are discussed. A discussion of the evolution of the process documents is presented. The ultimate goal of the documents is the elimination or minimization of detected failure modes, Failure studies have shown that some failure modes are screenable with high confidence whereas attempts to screen other types of failure modes merely decrease the life of the device. In the later case, the detection durng short term stressing of devices which exhibit long time dependent failure modes is a low probability event."
"Accelerated stress testing of tantalum thin-film esistor-capacitor networks was conducted to establish a eans of predicting use level failure rates and to determine he major modes of failure associated with the networks also, a rigorous study was made of the physical mechanisms of failure. Accelerated stress tests were performed simultaneously at a number of conditions involving elevated voltage and temperature as well as at use voltage and temperature levels. The relationships between accelerated stress failure rates and actual failure rates were investigated. The resulting modes of failure include: resistance changes and thermal runaway for the resistors, and leakage current increases and dielectric breakdown for the capacitors. Failure mechanism analysis resulted in significant information on the causes of the observed modes of failure. In conjunction with this study, information on the basic structure of sputtered tantalum and anodically formed Ta2O5 was acquired through the use of electron diffraction and electron microscopy techniques. Plots of the rate of interaction of tantalum resistors with various gases were made at elevated temperatures. In air, the reaction rate was found to be parabolic. The effect of substrate ion migration on resesistors was also studied. Ta2O5 dielectric conduction mechanism studies indicated ionic conduction. Several methods for the location of defects in the Ta2O5 capacitor dielectric films were evaluated; the best results were obtained with a copper plating technique. A detailed study of the defective regions indicated that crystallization of the amorphous Ta2O5 is the principal reason for localized defects."
"The Electronic Component Reliabilty Center at Battelle Memorial Instiute is involved in a continuing study of physical mechanisms and processes in electronic arts pertinent to device reliability. In a study of avalanche breakdown in diffused silicon p-n junctions, an exponential decrease with time ahas been observed in the onset voltage for microplasma conduction. The time constant of this decrease is inversely proportional to the ratio of average on- to off-time of the microplasma pulses, and the magnitude is temperature dependent, peaking at approximately 60° K. The theory is advanced that, during the avalanche pulse, the acquisition rate of electrons by ionized donor impurities is increased, decreasing the ionized donor concentration, thus changing the field intensity and hence the breakdown voltage. In effect, compensating donor sites tend to fill during the microplasma pulses and empty in the internals between pulses. Thus, ΔND (t) = rfTon - re Toff, where rf and re are the filling and emptying rates, respectively, and Ton and Toff are the relative average on- and off-times of the microplasma pulses. At temperatures where the Fermi level is several kT from the energy level of the trapping sites, the occupation index of the traps is relatively unaffected by injected carrier density. However, where EF is within a few kT of ET, the occupation density of the traps is a strong function of the injected carrier density."
"The Structural perfection of the epitaxial-diffused silicon films is one of the most important factors determining the performance and reliability of large-area epitaxial-diffused devices. The characteristics of these devices are affected by structural imperfections generated during the epitaxial growth and the diffusion processes. The commonly observed imperfections in epitaxial silicon films are dislocations, stacking faults, growth pyramids, and polycrystalline inclusions. They all have adverse effects of varying degrees on device characteristics. Except those propagated from the substrate, structural imperfections in epitaxial silicon films can be essentially eliminated by using proper growth techniques. The diffusion of high concentrations of dopants into epitaxial silicon films has been shown to generate dislocations and to transform stacking faults into other types of imperfections. furthermore, localized areas of high dislocation density in epitaxial-diffused silicon films, due to contamination and improper handling techniques, have been shown to be responsible for the softness of large-area epitaxial-diffused junctions. The characteristics of these junctions were found to be improved considerably by using a gettering technique. The epitaxial growth technique has been shown to be a valuable substitute for diffusion in reducing the failure of certain large area devices."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Reverse biased diodes of various geometrical dimensions, oxide preparation techniques and breakdown voltages were used to measure surface contact potential differences and surface ion distributions in various ambients. The experimental data of ion accumulation were compared to complementary error function solutions expected for a distributed capacitance and sheet resistance. After bias removal the accumulated positive and negative charges were allowed to decay. Significant differences of decay times could be observed determined by the sign of the charge and the chemical preparation of the sample. The influence of mobile surface charges on device characteristics, particularly on the diode breakdown voltage, is described. The relationship between the surface breakdown voltage and the external bias applied to a metal strip located geometrically above the p-n junction is established. Finally, it is shown that a \"freezing\" of the surface charges can change and stabilize the diode V-I characteristics considerably."
"The physical mechanisms of the formation of channel currents associated with reverse biased P-N junctions are studied in detail. It is demonstrated that a channel characteristic results when a site of very high carrier generation rate is connected by an inversion layer to the P-N junction. Such sites are shown to be due either to a fault associated with the field-induced junction between the inversion layer and underlying silicon, or to the breakdown of this junction."
"The surface leakage resistance, RS, of silicon oxide, and its bulk leakage resistance, Rb in humid ambients are determined from charging and discharging curves of MOS capacitors. Using these data we derive the extension of creep of surface charges from an electrode to which a d.c. voltage is applied. This creep which may induce breakdown phenomena in oxide-covered silicon microcircuits is retarded by reducing thickness and bulk resistance of the oxide."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Transmission electron microscope studies have shown that commercial silicon materials have varying concentrations of microdefects which are not detectable by normal evaluation procedures. The size of these defects ranges from less than 100Å up to microns. The following types of defects have been found: small loop-shaped defects, large loop-shaped defects, inclusions of several kinds, and precipitates including those associated with crystallographic defects. The chemical composition of these particles, precipitates, and inclusions are generally uncertain; but some evidence exists that SiC, SiO2, and possibly Si3N4 are present. The widespread occurrence of microdefects in standard or premium quality silicon emphasizes the need for developing improved materials growth techniques and rapid procedures for detecting microdefects. The frequency of occurrence of the different varieties of microdefects differs with the type of material; however, crystals grown by the three principal techniques - float-zone, Czochralski, and crucibleless pulling - did not differ significantly in the degree of the overall microdefect problem. The effects of microdefects on devices depends strongly on the nature and size of the defect, whether it is conducting (metallic), non-conducting, or purely crystallographic. The size of the defect is important in determining the behavior of the device under electrical stress and during long time operation. Indirect effects, in particular precipitation of fast-diffusing heavy metal impurities on microdefects, are believed to be a significant cause of poor device performance. Qualitative relationships between microdefects and the quality of p-n junction devices have been established."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"The investigation has been primarily concerned with a search for factors pertinent to mechanisms of failure in microdiode values which entailed design and screening evaluation of various experimental and analytical approaches. The data produced by this effort was reviewed for applicability to these components to verify postulated hypotheses. The interesting results of the program include: 1. The discovery of ammonia in a phenolic molding compound used by a diode manufacturer. Further work revealed that ammonia contamination produced increased and erratic reverse currents and was more pronounced in the presence of moisture. 2. The revelation of the presence of ammonia and other deficiencies in this molding compound induced the manufacturer to investigate other compounds and substitute a better one. 3. The elevated temperature resistivities of coatings were a measure of the performance of these materials as protective systems over diodes under elevated temperature test conditions. 4. In some plastic compounds, a correlation was found between elevated temperature resistivities and water extract resistivities. 5. Teflon, an inert coating with a very high elevated temperature resistivity and high water extract resistivity, was demonstrated to have superior performance under elevated temperature reverse bias and high humidity reverse bias test conditions. 6. The resistivity of water extracts of evaporants was found to be an effective means of indicating the amount of ionic and other conductive impurities in plastic materials."
"High-stress testing of 200,000 microminiature components used on Minuteman II, and subsequent analyses of failures, have demonstrated deficiencies in design and processing of these microminiature components. These tests and analyses were made during the course of the Component Quality Assurance and Component Evaluation Programs conducted by Autonetics. A summary of these results is given. It provides criteria for establishment of designs and processes for microminiature transistors, diodes, capacitors, resistors and integrated circuits. Solutions for demonstrated deficiencies are identified and catagorixed in terms of design improvement, process and tool changes, inspection changes, and screens. The role of component procurement documents and component qualification procedures in the assurance of proper design and processing of high reliability microminiature components is discussed. The effectiveness of these procedures in elimination of design and process inherent failure mechanisms is shown."
"The extremely small size of semiconductor integrated circuits introduces microanalytical problems not normally encountered. E. A. Corl1 at the 1964 Physics of Failure Symposium described an anion reaction for failure analysis of microcircuits. A similar non-destructive chemical process, chromate conversion of the interconnecting aluminization, has been stuided. The process will react selectively producing striking contrasts in the color of the aluminization. A number of factors both in the solution and the integrated circuit itself were found to influence the reaction rate. By the proper application and technique, chromate conversion can be used to locate sites of surface defects and attendant electrical failure. Variations and contrasts in the characteristic brown color will show whether an area is P or N, the relative doping level, areas of high Al2O3 concentration, the presence of pinholes in the oxide under the aluminum, breaks in the aluminum, and containants on the surface. The advantages of the process are simplicity, economy, sharp variations in color, and it is non-destructive. Compositions of the various solutions and the pertinent reaction parameters are described. A study of a number of factors within the integrated circuit affecting the reaction was also made. A proposed reaction mechanism is discussed. The process appears to have great utility as an analytical tool. It may also have an application as a process step for the protection of aluminum against oxidation and mechanical damage."
"A model is presented to explain the cause of mesoplasmas when secondary breakdown occurs in silicon planar transistors. An analysis of both aluminum and gold metalized devices is presented. To substantiate the model, data are presented from experiments to analyze the second breakdown sites. Three areas of investigation are suggested which may prove effective in reducing the destructive effects of hot spots and mesoplasmas in transistors."
"An investigation of failure mechanisms associated with die-to-header bonds in planar transistors was centered on five thermally induced physical processes that occur in these bonds. The five processes include solid-state diffusion of intermediate materials into the bonding layer and outgassing of materials on the header, both resulting in void formation; nickel-silicon intermetallic formation leading to cracking; thermal reordering of gold-silicon eutectic alloys accompanied by electrical resistance changes; and a phase transformation in copper-gold braze alloys, also resulting in changes in electrical resistance. The kinetics of these processes were examined with relation to actual device materials and geometries to determine their effects on transistor electrical characteristics. The results indicate that these processes are probably not major life-controlling mechanisms. However, any one or a combination of these processes may result in parameter drift and incipient failure during extended device operation. Cerain immediate corrective actions are available to prevent these deleterious effects. Thermal stabilization or outgassing steps in the device fabrication and close control of materials are suggested. Other corrective actions will require an investigation of more efficient barrier layers on the header, substitution of materials to improve wettability, or perhaps a complete redesign of certain devices."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Successful integration of individual subsystems in a weapon system depends significantly on the effects of interconnect wiring. Due to increasing complexities of electronic equipments and electrical wiring, problems arise because of the increase in wiring and smaller areas in which it must be placed. To solve a high density wiring problem, McDonnell Aircraft Corp. developed a \"compact wire harness\" which, when compared to conventional aircraft and spacecraft wiring, reduced harness diameter, improved reliability and appearance, offered more flexibility, and reduced weight appreciably. From the compact wire harness development evolved an additional design \"tool\" for the control of Electromagnetic Interference (EMI), a \"shielded compact wire harness.\" Continuing product improvements, such as an EMI \"tight\" backshell, and improved methods to accomplish consistent grounding of the connector plug show favorable promise of adaptibility to the shielded compact wire harness. A recent crippling interference situation in an active Air Force reconnaissance squadron was corrected with the McDonnell shielded cable concept. The usefulness of the process was thereby established as a retrofit \"tool.\""
"The actual effectiveness of a transmitter harmonic filter, when inserted in the transmission line to the antenna, can vary over a wide range which extends both above and below the standard characteristic-impedance circuit insertion-loss values. The location in this range varies with interconnecting transmission line lengths. An example discussed here shows that the actual insertion loss of a 60 db filter could be anywhere between 10 db and 94 db. Furthermore, the transmitter harmonic power delivered to an antenna, in the absence of a filter, can also vary with the length of the interconnecting transmission line. These effects are produced by changes in mismatch loss which occur as the length of interconnecting transmission line is varied. The purpose of this paper is to show how to determine the range of variation of such effects. Included are some sample calculations and the results of limited experimental tests."
"This paper describes and evaluates six methods for predicting RF induced current in a typical ordnance circuit found in airplanes, missiles, or space vehicles. The calculations here were based on an incident RF field of 100 watts per square meter at 2 megacycles."
"This is an extension of the Bridged-T infinite rejection network idea transformed into microwave concepts. These devices achieve approximately 100db of attenuation with skirt attenuations approximately 5db. The tuning range between 1 KMc and 10 KMc is continuously covered with 4 units at present. Work is continuing to reduce the number of units to 2. Design parameters, performance curves, and application to MILSTD 826 will be discussed."
"This paper is based on a recent study-in-depth of the current radar situation in the United States. It is intended here to define, on the basis of the data offered by this study, radar's contribution to the electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) environment of today and for the next decade. It will be shown that the current maximum in radar power output, about 200 megawatts peak, is constrained by a number of technological factors to remain quite static throughout this period; what will increase, and in rapid fashion, is the actual number of these high-powered radiators. What this will mean to the space-age EMC engineer will be determined by blocking out the dimensions of the current problem, and then extrapolating to a point, say, ten years hence by the geographical multiplication suggested. It will be shown first that the present situation wrought by high-power radar is not encouraging from the EMC standpoint, and, secondly, that it should be the mission of EMC agents to arrest today's problems and then outpace the predictable increase in these offenders. The prediction is that they will; the Herculean efforts of the early EMC pioneers have given us today a highly receptive audience, in government and in industry. In the radar area the cooperation is better than average; a healthy awareness of problems of interference and their ramifications is in evidence and well documented."
"The paper reviews the broad field of EMC Instrumentation as it has evolved today, and attempts to outline the equipment which will be required to meet the fast growing needs of present and future systems. The functional requirements are reviewed, and key performance characteristics outlined in terms of measurement instrument parameters. In some cases, the performance characteristics require very significant improvement. This would be considered normal were it not for the simultaneous great increase required in degree of automation and operating speed, or data rate. The resulting dichotomy is unusually sharp and requires careful planning. Traditionally, EMC phenomena have been approached on a frequency domain basis, including transient effects. This was valid since almost all systems operated on a frequency domain basis, and will be valid for most systems for a considerable time to come. Increasing use of digital communications and control systems has shown the frequency domain approach to be inadequate for the treatment of such systems. It appears that a more efficient direct time domain approach will be required for an increasing number of systems. This will call for establishment of new standards, specifications, measurement equipment, and techniques."
"Present instrumentation for monitoring transient interference is in some respects inadequate. So are present measurement techniques. There is a need today for new instrumentation and improved techniques for measuring and recording transients. This paper describes a broadband, multichannel transient monitoring system being studied by Stoddart engineers. The system can monitor transient interference on from twelve to thirty-six different circuits simultaneously. Each circuit is monitored by an individual instrumentation channel. The design of the system is flexible enough that other channels can be added where needed. Before describing the system design philosophy, a brief review is given of the characteristics of transient waveforms. Particular emphasis is placed on transients which are normally regarded as interference. Also considered are the effects of transient interference on various types of electronic equipment. Present methods of measuring transient interference are described, and the inherent shortcomings of these techniques are pointed out. The limitations of transient monitoring devices in use today are discussed, and so is the need for new equipment and improved techniques. The discussion then leads into a detailed description of the transient monitoring system under study by Stoddart. The final design of the transient monitoring system is not yet firmly established. Nevertheless, the general design approach described in this paper offers a straightforward but practical solution to a complicated RFI problem --- that of monitoring transient interference on a large number of circuits with speed and accuracy."
"After review of some general properties of RF absorber materials, several of the standard and semistandard techniques for measuring absorber and anechoic chamber quality are discussed. A general purpose RFI laboratory is described together with a simple technique for evaluating the performance of absorber material as it is actually used. An effective background reflectivity of about 4% from 1 - 10 Gc was measured and is believed to be adequate for many applications."
"In summarizing the following paper it is necessary to realize that in the initial design of a switching system, it is difficult to predict the many problems that will result from spurious interference. Several of the interference coupling paths will not become apparent until the system is completed so it is necessary to consider susceptibility during the individual circuit design. The three primary items to emphasize are switching speed, switching pulse amplitude and the location of the threshold region with respect to the switching pulse amplitude. All of these items are determined during the initial individual circuit design so it is extremely important that their relationship to system interference susceptibility be thoroughly examined, It has been the object of this paper to provide material which would help the designer in determining an optimum solution to the susceptibility problem."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes the program conducted by McDonnell Aircraft Corporation to assure Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) within Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) for tile Phantom II Aircraft. The wide variety of sophisticated AGE utilized presents many unique EMC problems. AGE/Aircraft compatibility considerations at McDonnell are of prime concern. Consistent grounding philosophies within AGE and compatible with airborne equipment has been established. Grounding systems are classified as primary power, secondary AC power, DC power, signal and radio frequency. Each equipment ground is classified and controlled accordingly. A Weapon System concept that results in the extensive use of shielded cabling is an important part of the McDonnell Aircraft EMI control approach. Design and testing of shielded cables, connectors, and connector back-shells has been accomplished. New designs to reduce radiation from various front panel mounted switches, jacks, meters, and lights have been developed. These include the grounding of \"Bat\" handles and shafts of switches and using waveguide below cut-off devices for jacks. Testing complex AGE to determine compliance with Military Specifications can become very time consuming. Methods and procedures to reduce test time, yet maintain a valid test, have been formulated."
"Several authors have suggested that hills, earth walls, excavated pits, or same other such obstacle might be used to shield ground-terminal antennas of satellite-to-ground communication links from radiated interference propagating at low angles (troposcatter, groundwave, etc.). As the tradeoff is between access or look angle and shielding efficiency, such pits would be most useful for synchronous satellite systems, but they might be applicable for other systems. This paper presents measured isolation provided by three representative pits at two frequencies (2.3 and 9.0 Gc) in the band presently proposed for communication satellite systems (1-10 Gc). One pit had a vertical wall, one a sloping wall, and the third a rounded sloping wall. Isolation of 40 dB appears feasible, and possibly more could be achieved with specially designed pit walls."
"The optimum frequency band for satellite communication systems is generally agreed to be between 1 and 10 Gc. Frequencies in this band are, however, already allocated and or assigned. One solution to this spectrum occupancy problem is frequency sharing, and one of the systems in this band with which a satellite system might have to coexist is the TD-2 microwave radio relay sstem (3.7-4.2 Gc). This paper presents the measured radiation characteristics of several representative TD-2 transmitting terminals. Both ground and airborne measurements are discussed. It is concluded that, subject to some precautions, back-and side-lobe patterns measured in the horizontal plane on an antenna range with ground effects minimized can be used to predict radiation in the vertical plane from these same antennas placed over actual ground. Such a technique, of course,, presupposes that the antenna of interest has been properly designed to somwhat suppress side and back lobes."
"This paper is a report on a problem which is thought to have rather general interest in the field of radar and communications systems. This is the problem of interference caused by the reflection of pulsed radar signals from the terrain in the transmitter-receiver environs. This problem has proved to be rather intractable to handle analytically and therefore the empirical approach presented in this paper might be of special interest to those who have tried some analytic approach. Basically, the problem to which this paper addresses itself is as follows: Suppose it is desired to predict the number of pulses and their power levels, arriving at an unintended receiver from a radar transmitter. The task of predicting the direct pulses is difficult, but can be approached analytically; however, what can be done about predicting those pulses reflected from the terrain (or other objects) in the vicinity, especially when no detailed terrain information is available? during the study from which this paper arose, measured data was obtained at several selected sites in the San Diego area by tuning a test receiver to one of the identified, operating radar transmitters at a time. The number of pulses and their power levels were measured by the test equipment and recorded. This procedure was reported for several different transmitters at three test sites. At the same time, a computer program (called MSS-1) has been developed to predict the number of direct pulses and their power levels."
"The interference prediction model is a major tool in the effort to obtain electromagnetic compatibility in the crowded radio frequency spectrum. Work has progressed in the prediction modeling of the transmitter, antenna, propagation, and receiver, but additional expressions for the degrading effect of interference upon information output to the operator are required to complete the analysis. The paper introduces an analytical approach to obtaining a quantitative prediction of the interference degradation to a radar PPI display. Determining the signal output from the receiving system due to environment has been accomplished by various approaches and is reported on elsewhere. For the purposes of this investigation, a description of the receiver output in terms of the pulse density distribution by received power level is assumed. The task remaining and the subject of the study performed, is the relationship between the pulse signal distribution input to the display and the resulting interference to the PPI."
"Basic models for the synthesis of transmitter spectra for three different types of transmission have been presented. They are: (1) Amplitude modulation; (2) Conventional radar pulse; and (3) Pulse-compression radar pulse. Each one of the equations defining the models is suitable for pencil-and-slide-rule analysis. In general a great degree of precision is not required in EMI prediction. The graphs given in Appendices II and III indicate that the errors are well within the desired limits."
"This paper presents a technique for establishing known, high intensity RF fields suitable for testing the susceptibility of electronic equipment to these fields. The technique overcomes a deficiency in tests for radiated susceptibility which are required by military specifications, such as MIL-I-26600. Such tests fail to use field intensities that are representative of the environments in which electronic equipment will be installed. It is becoming more important not only to use realistic field strengths, but to know these field strengths to a fair degree of accuracy. The system designer will have more assurance of system compatibility if components have been tested to meet the requirements of the installation environment. A significant amount of time and money can be saved if susceptibility problems are recognized and solved prior to equipment installation."
"Envirornmental synthesis is defined as a procedure by which an electromagnetic enviromnent (including equipment types, numbers and deployments) is generated, based on partial information. There is a need for such syntheses since complete information in both current and future time periods will never be available. Another requirement arises when excessive computer time is a significant factor. Since environmental synthesis implies relatively coarse inputs and outputs, its use should be confined to those areas in which such outputs are justified. Two such areas include frequency allocation and equipment specifications, both of which involve future installations, whose location and time frame are not known precisely. Answers are required which will indicate, in general terms, whether an equipment will cause or experience harmful degradation due to unintentional interference. One type of answer, termed separation criteria, can indicate the minimum geographical spacing and/or frequency separation which will be necessary to permit two specific equipments (or equipment types) to operate in a compatible manner. There is a choice of sampling all possible environments or generating a series of typical environments. The latter approach seems more practical, economic, and meaningful. For, if a system can perform satisfactorily in a \"worst case\" enviromnent, it will certainly operate in less congested situations. If it does not pass the worst case test, significant problem areas can be identified and a reasonable lower bound imposed. A number of statistical distributions are described, involving deployment of equipments, propagation effects, operating frequency, and antenna gain characteristics."
"A 200-foot pneumatically operated, portable plastic tower has been constructed to permit measurement of radiated signals and also to permit the radiation of r-f signals for overall susceptibility measurements. The electronic package contained at the top of the tower is semiautomated and is controlled from a console on the ground. Cable losses have been eliminated by locating all r-f circuitry at the antennas on top of the tower. This system was designed for making MIL-STD-449 type measurements on operational radars. The system, its operation and the data analysis methods will be discussed."
"The techniques and instrumentation utilized by the National Bureau of Standards to calibrate field strength meters and standards in terms of absolute field strength at frequencies from 10 kHz to 1 GHz are described. Two basic techniques are used: (1) the standard-field method for loop antennas at frequencies from 30 kHz to 30 MHz and (2) the standard-antenna method for horizontally-polarized dipole antennas at frequencies from 30 to 1000 MHz. The accuracy and the limitations of each technique are discussed. Present loop antenna calibration uncertainties vary from 3 to 5 percent depending on the frequency. Dipole antenna uncertainties are presently 12 percent. Various other antenna calibration techniques that have been studied are mentioned, pointing out their limitations. The instrumentation used to calibrate the field strength receiver characteristics is described. These measurements include the calibration of the signal attenuators, calibration of the overall linearity of the receiver, and calibration of the receiver as a two-terminal rf voltmeter. Future plans of the National Bureau of Standards field strength and noise calibration services are discussed. Improved uncertainties and extended services are planned for antennas from 30 Hz to 1000 MHz. New noise calibration services are planned; these include the calibration of random noise generators at selected frequencies from 30 to 1000 MHz, and the calibration of impulse generators in terms of their spectral density."
"This paper deals with Lockheed Engineering Flight Test experience in the preparation of electromagnetic campatibility test plans on F-104G (MAP) and other later model F-104 aircraft. Literal interpretation of MIL-E-6051C as applied to test plan requirements for various types of electronic and electrical systems is covered. Specifically, the establishment of malfunction criteria for several types of systems including electronic, synchro-type, optical, radar, and pyro-technics are expanded upon. Problems in test plan development encountered for each individual system type are discussed, including how the most critical interference point in a particular system is determined; how a \"malfunction\" is determined; and how the test plan is prepared from the established information. Lockheed believes that the resulting interference test plans were some of the most comehensive ever written for a modern fighter aircraft. Many useful ideas for EMC test plan preparation may be drawn frcam the information presented."
"Extremely high radio frequency power densities exist in the vicinity of modern microwave transmitting equipment and constitute a hazard to personnel and material. This paper discusses the problem and describes a new simple means of measuring and indicating the presence of hazardous microwave radiation. The equipment described utilizes a unique integrating component to accumulate the total radiation received from hazardous RF sources during a fixed sampling period. In this manner it correctly measures the damaging dosage received from RF sources which often produce widely time varying fields due to pulsing and antenna scanning."
"The purpose of this paper is to acquaint the reader with the basic considerations involved in designing instrumentation to detect stray energy levels in ordnance circuits. In addition, it introduces various techniques that, when properly adapted to each specific application, will enable an accurate evaluation of noise levels at high frequencies."
"This paper illustrates some fundamental instrumentation and measurment terms and the vague or midlesding manner in which they are frequently used. For example, the subject of accuracy is shown in four different common uses and interpretations. Misuse of the accuracy term is also illustrated in describing the performance of receiver linearity and dynamic range, the synthesis of recorder requirements and specifications, and the development of uncertainties in instrumentation and measurement. The damage results in either incorrect or poor decisions based on erroneous data, or wanton waste of dollars and effort by developing the wrong data, or both. Several examples are set forth on how a better technological communication can be effected. Some new instrumentation and measurement techniques recommended for use by the Electromagnetic Compatibility Community are presented. Regarding new instruments or updating of existing instruments, some examples described include statistical signal level detectors, peak-signal vs frequency plotting units, antenna pattern intercept platforms and equipments, and multi-channel crystal-video receivers with RF preamplification, peak detection and hold, and output sampling for X-Y plotting over 9 decades. Many of the EMC instrumentation techniques are borrowed from the EMW and ELINT Communities. Regarding measurement techniques, shielded enclosure attenuation, antenna pattern measurements using the sun as a signal generator and the conduct of electromagnetic site surveys are reviewed. Clearly, this paper covers only a few of a number of new opportunities awaiting EMC Community action."
"A technique for accurately measuring conducted radio frequency interference has been developed at the U.S. Naval Civil Engineering Laboratory. The technique involves the use of two current probes simultaneously to determine the impedance levels of the lines or equipment under measurement. The noise currents of the lines or electrical equipment are measured directly using one of the two probes. Knowing the noise currents and the impedances through which it flows provides the necessary information for computing noise voltages and noise power. Further, it allows prediction of the noise power delivered by the measured device into any known impedance connection. The bandwidth covered by this technique is 20KC-30mc. This range is covered by two instruments, the first covers 20KC-2mc and the second 2mc-30mc. The high frequency instrument has been described before and will not be discussed here. The low frequency instrument is new and has several unique features. The main feature being a direct read out of both the impedance magnitude and the phase angle of the system being measured. This is accomplished by transistorized circuits which drive two front panel meters, one for impedance magnitude and one for phase angle and its polarity. By providing the phase information it is possible to specify the noise observed in terms of noise power. This technique removes the many ambiguities which are normally associated with conducted noise measurements using line impedance stabilization networks."
"A relationship between pulse-power input to a receiver of finite bandwedth and a siustituted CW signal is derived. Experimntal data is obtained on narrow bandwidt. (optetrum analysers) and wide bancdwidth (RF-FI meters) receivers to verify the theoretical results. It is shovn that using the proposed method data collected on different bandwidth spectrum analysers can be correlated. Equations for power per unit bandwidth are also derived. The results indicate present correlation techniques are inadequate."
"Our constantly expanding space age developments have an ever increasing need for more frequency channels for communications, telemetering, radar, etc. In order to maintain electromagnetic compatibility, new developments are being forced higher and higher in frequency. Some of the most recent developments have been in the X band (8.2 -12.4 gc) and Ku band (12.4 to 18.0 gc). These new higher frequency bands have created a need for new Radio Frequency Interference Measuring Instrumentation, the chief weapon used in the fight for electromagnetic compatibility. As our frequency spectrums have become more crowded, the glaring need for electromagnetic compatibility has become more apparent. No longer are contractors and manufacturers being allowed exceptions to radio interference specifications. All electronic devices purchased by government agencies must be electromagnetically compatible. The slow, laborious, and costly process of checking compatibility with most present RFI (Radio Frequency Interference) measuring equipment has shown the need for new equipment and methods. These new methods are contained in the new (January 1964) MIL-STD-826 Electromagnetic Interference Test Requirements and Test Methods. This specification calls for fast, simple, accurate, and semi-automatic methods of testing devices for electromagnetic compatibility. The Stoddart NM-62A, 1 to 10 gc RFI measuring instrument had pioneered the methods called out in MIL-STD-826. To increase the range of this instrument to fill the need at higher frequencies, the NMC-1040 Microwave Frequency Converter was designed. This paper describes the design of this instrument."
"A simple portable device is described that allows spurious noise transient waveforms to be easily observed or recorded. The device reduces the instrumentation necessary when trouble-shooting problems in the Ground Electronic Equipment of complex Missile Systems. The device was successfully used on the Minuteman Missile System and the numerous uses found for the device during the course of problem investigations are described."
"The Publications Conmittee wishes to correct an error made in the October 1964 issue of the Transactions (Vol EMC-6). In a paper by David T. Geiser, entitled \"A method of DF error correction,\" Figure 3 was split and a part of it used as Figure 2. The correct form of Figure 2 is reproduced here. The Figure 2, as published, should be a part of Figure 3, as published."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Project RELAY command system is described with emphasis given to the spacecraft equipment. Errors in the RELAY command system are discussed, and the probability of error in a single command word and the probability of a spurious command are given as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at the output of the command receiver in the satellite. The performance of the actual RELAY command system is discussed and shown to differ considerably from the performance predicted by theory. The results of an analysis of the orbiting command system are presented. The probable cause for the anomalous performance of the command system is shown to be Radio Frequency Interference from ground based transmitters. The techniques which are available to the system designer to avoid the problems experienced by the RELAY system are discussed in detail."
"A re-evaluation and analysis of previously published and recently accumulated metropolitan area man-made noise data in the 200 to 500 Mc/s frequency range have been performed. Journal publications and organization reports have been collected and evaluated to obtain expressions for the frequency and distance dependence of radio noise in the vicinity of industrial centers in the United States, Europe, and the Near East. Unpublished results of noise studies conducted by several investigators in the United States were included to supplement the published data. For a typical metropolitan area, three welldefined noise zones have been identified which may be called Central, Suburban, and Very Quiet. For the innermost Central zone, a further subdivision into Urban and Suburban I zones may be justifiable. Least squares approximations curves have been fitted to the noise power data for the frequency interval 200 to 500 Mc/s. The dependence of noise power Pn upon frequency and distance from a city has been represented by a quadratic function of the form: Pn = Ρ1 + α2 (d -k 1) + α3 (d - k2)2 where αi = di + bi f. A least squares fit of this polynomial to the experimental data leads to the following equation for noise power Pn in dBm/kc, in terms of frequency f in Mc/s and distance d in miles: Pn = -109-1.71.10-2 f - [0.442-7.72.10-4f][d-2.5] -[1.62.10-2 + 3.45.10-5 f][d - 2.5]2 Manuscript received December 23, 1964. The author is with Aerospace Corp., San Bernardino, Calif."
"The problem is that of predicting interference focuses on 1) the equipment output in the presence of interference, and 2) the relation between a given output and the equipment performance. To designate the investigation of an equipment output in relation to the device performance, we use the term output criteria. Output criteria are methods for evaluating system device outputs relative to prescribed standards. This paper introduces a method for obtaining such criteria. This paper defines a function for the output criteria in terms of the various elements that would exist in any general interference situation. The desired function yields a performance measure expressed in general system performance terms (e.g., percent system efficiency). This report also notes certain instances in which currently used criteria correspond to portions of the overall performance measure described. The various elements used in the performance measure are also discussed in terms of their interrelationships as well as their meaning relative to physically significant interference situations. A hypothetical signal and interference environment is described and a matrix is defined which describes 1) all the signal and interference combinations under consideration, and 2) for each specific signal and interference combination, the various decisions which could be made at the equipment output regarding the signal and interference believed to have been present. The decision matrix is used to define the events for which cost estimates must be made."
"Electroexplosive devices (EED) can be inadvertently initiated or dudded by radio frequency (RF) energy. Inadvertent initiation presents a hazard to personnel and equipment; dudding decreases missile and component reliability. The ultraconservative approach in analyzing such a problem is to assume the terminals of the electroexplosive to be a resonant dipole. Under such an assumption, in almost every condition of importance, the electroexplosives would initiate. It was obvious that a more exact study was needed. This report presents a method of mathematically evaluating effects of RF energy on EED, taking into consideration the maximum response of the EED circuits as limited by geometry, dimensions, and materials of the missile assemblies and components. When these limits are considered, it is seen that in most cases far less energy is picked up than if an ideal anntenna is assumed. The method can be used for loads other than electroexplosive devices."
"This paper provides the filter designer with a set of nomographs which enables him to immediately arrive at the insertion loss characteristic for any one, two, or three element electromagnetic interference filter. Conversely, the element values required to produce a desired amount of insertion loss at any given frequency can be quickly and accurately determined. Design information available in texts and handbooks is discussed, and the limitations and drawbacks of these familiar methods are considered. The need for a design method which includes provisions for dealing with non-ideally damped filter sections is demonstrated. General equations for the insertion loss of one, two, and three element filters are presented. From these general equations, expressions for cut-off frequency, damping ratio, and element values are developed. Ideal damping is defined, and the effect of non-ideal damping is examined. Based on the equations, a set of nine nomographs (the Craig Charts) is presented. Detailed instructions for the use of the charts are provided, along with illustrative examples. Actual insertion loss curves for several real filters are presented and compared with the results predicted by the Craig Charts."
"It is normal practice to consider single-phase measurement of interference characteristics of three-phase delta systems as representative of all three phases. The validity of such procedures was investigated using the symmetrical components theory, and the relations between the distribution of electronic equipment between phases and phase voltages on the phase voltages of the capacitive load system was analyzed. A chart was presented to facilitate the determination of phase voltages of a capacitive load system from the knowledge of capacitance in the phases."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Listed below are five panelists representing various government agencies and an industry advisory group (JTAC). The discussion, including audience participation, covers status, concepts, and problems of radio spectrum utilization and the various aspects of spectrum utilization in its role as a national, international, and natural resource."
"This paper describes SIM (Systems Interference Monitor) which was developed to demonstrate compliance of the man-rated Gemini launch vehicle to the interference control requirements of MIL-E-6051C. The SIM incorporates simultaneous monitoring and remote control of many widely separated test points from a central location. The system includes a self-verification capability, two-wire high-input impedance signal conditioners, a plug-In capability for adapting to on-the-spot criteria changes, and data that are immediately presented in permanent record for a quick-look 'go-no-go' review and comprehensive analysis at a later date."
"A technique is described for significantly reducing the effect of multipath interference on field strength measurements made in conventional shielded enclosures by hooding the receiving antenna. Field strength measurements in a shielded enclosure and corresponding measurements in the open field were made at frequencies from 1 to 7 Gc/s with and without an antenna hood. It was found that when the appropriate insertion loss constants are applied to the hooded antenna data taken in a shielded enclosure, the agreement between these data and the data from the same experiments performed in the open field without a hood is excellent. Principal advantages of the hooded antenna over anechoic chambers include reduced cost, reduced inside space requirements for absorbing material, and applicability of use in most existing shielded enclosures."
"The radiating mechanisms of a reflector antenna system are discussed. Means of computing the various component fields are given, including aperture radiation, direct feed radiation, and diffracted radiation. An offset parabolic reflector antenna system fed with a corrugated horn is treated as an example. Means of reduction of the undesired components of radiation are suggested."
"For interference evaluation studies, the voltage or power spectrum of transmitting systems must be known. This paper evaluates the magnitude of the sideband power levels for linear FM carriers. Carriers of this type are encountered in FM-CW and FM pulsed radars. Analytical expressions are derived and spectral amplitudes are plotted which permit rapid evaluation of spurious sideband powers as a function of a normalized frequency deviation about the carrier."
"Since the establishment of the method for the measurement of radiation from FM and TV receivers, by Subcommittee 12-A of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), the problem of establishing the conversion factor between the IEC method and the IRE method has aroused great interest. Because of the irregular radiation patterns of the receivers, the conversion factor may be determined preferably on a statistical rather than a theoretical basis. Here the procedure is described by which the radiation measurements were carried out on 74 FM receivers, using both methods, and the site calibrations were made. The results are analyzed and the basic concept of correlation factor introduced, in order to convert the limits of one method to the limits of the other."
"interference mechanisms in receivers frequently entail nonlinear phenomena which alter the information sidebands of unwanted signals admitted to the receiver. Methods are discussed for obtaining useful statistical properties of the output of double-sideband receivers in such cases, when the original unwanted signals are double-sideband modulated with \"Gaussian process\" information. The solution is carried out in two stages. The statistical properties at the output of the nonlinear device, where the information sidebands are no longer Gaussian, are first obtained. A method is then developed for conveniently determining the pertinent quantities at the output of the filter and detector. The firstorder moments of the output are given emphasis. From these the first-order probability densities can frequently be approximated, as they are here. Specific attention is given to second harmonic interference caused by square-law nonlinearity, and to intermodulation interference caused by cube-law nonlinearity. An example of each is worked out to show the effect of bandwidth on the moments and on the probability densities."
"In the past few years, an efficient and effective interference program has become increasingly important in the design and development of most modern electronic systems. The difficulty of realistically anticipating the technical implications and ultimate cost of interference problems is well known. Furthermore, it is not always easy to find applicable information in the literature. A summary is presented here of some of the ways of minimizing the effects of hum, noise, and other kinds of \"interference\" in electronic equipment, and the compatibility of solutions to different types of interference is discussed. The important problem of integrating a responsible interference program into an existing system design project is introduced. A discussion of some prospective areas for future study is also included."
"The frequency and range dependence of unintentionally generated man-made VHF/UHF noise in metropolitan areas may be interpreted by assuming that it is composed of random impulses which have been attenuated by propagation over irregular terrain. Man-made noise power per cycle of bandwidth measured for the frequency interval 150 to 500 Mc/s is shown to possess decrements of -10.4 dB/decade change in frequency and -17.9 dB/decade change in range. Theoretical computations of the frequency and range decrements based on a random impulse, irregular terrain model yield frequency and range decrements of -11.1 to -11.3 dB/frequency decade and -17.3 to -18.3 dB/range decade which are in good agreement with the measured results. Comparison of the measured VHF/UHF decrements for unintentionally generated man-made noise in urban and suburban areas with those derived from data which were predominantly of automotive ignition origin supports the conclusion that automotive ignition interference is the major source of man-made noise at these frequencies."
"Electronic measurements should provide the biomedical investigator with a mathematical description of the system under study. Like the physical sciences, the life sciences are bothered with interference that clutters the desired data. Some biomedical signals and sources of information are presented; an electro-neurophysiology system is used to illustrate the interference problem and its solution in a biomedical instrumentation system."
"The possible sources and effects of electric charge accumulation and dissipation on spacecraft are considered. Areas of insufficient and/or unreliable information are noted. It appears that a major source of charge buildup is the charging currents of the jet engines. Near the earth there may occur additional charging due to lightning, passage through the atmosphere and the particles contained therein. Discharge can take place by corona to charged clouds and to areas of high conductivity in the upper atmosphere. In space, residual charges will eventually be dissipated by the plasma of space with a resulting equilibrium potential of less than approximately 25 volts in magnitude. In general, the most important possibility for spacecraft malfunction is the effect of impulsive charging or discharge. The possibility of measuring and nullifying any accumulated charge on the spacecraft is discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes a prototype model of a phase-stabilized backward wave oscillator (BWO). The BWO is locked to a harmonic of a crystal oscillator by employing an automatic phase control loop. Tuning is accomplished by pulling the crystal oscillator and switching different crystals into the oscillator circuit. Power spectrum plots are taken in open-and closed-loop conditions, and methods of analyzing these plots are described. With the proper loop bandwidth, the BWO will assume the frequency stability of the reference oscillator. The phase-locked BWO is analyzed by a conventional feedback control technique. Each element in the loop is assigned a transfer function. From this the open-loop transfer function is determined. It is then shown that the improvement in short-term frequency stability is directly proportional to the open-loop transfer function and, hence, the open-loop gain. Utilizing plots of the absolute magnitude and phase angle of the open-loop gain vs. frequency, conclusions are drawn as to the maximum amount of gain which is possible while still maintaining system stability. Possible implementation of a series equalizer is considered in conjunction with this. Comments are also made on the relationship of the closed-loop bandwidth to the system lock-in range and system response to incremental changes in frequency."
"A direct reading, automatic, and temperature insensitive instrument has been developed for the detection and recording of pentaborane in air down to and below 0.1 parts per million (ppm) sensitivity using the flame-emission principle. Toxic levels of many other volatile materials may also be detected with appropriate modification. A small hydrogen flame takes on a typical greenish cast in the presence of boranes, the radiation intensity being proportional to the pentaborane concentration. A multiplier phototube with an appropriate interference filter detects this energy and the amplified current at the multiplier anode is applied to a dc differential amplifying stage using field-effect transistors. A panel meter is applied to this circuit, and recorder and control outputs are provided. The hand-carried instrument can operate for an eight-hour period using a self-contained hydrogen supply and rechargeable silver-zinc batteries. An automatic battery charge and cutoff circuit is built into the device."
"Phase alignment at microwave frequencies may be made to 0.1° or less, and amplitude balance to 0.1 dB may be made simultaneously with this fully solid-state test set which is designed to be comparable in size and weight to a Tektronix oscilloscope. Provisions are incorporated for testing with either pulsed or CW signals. Present means of measuring phase and amplitude differences at microwave frequencies require either rack size equipments or a group of various pieces of test equipment such as RF generators, standing wave indicators, and slotted lines. Standard procedures are to utilize slotted lines with VSWR sampling points using a short-circuited line or line-swapping arrangement. While these methods are versatile, all have limitations in resolution and accuracy while requiring long setup times and a high degree of skill by the operator. Operating at a single-crystal-controlled microwave frequency, this test set provides a means of continuously comparing two signals, one a reference or standard; the other a signal to be adjusted. The phase and amplitude difference between these two signals may be reduced to a null by adjusting the module under test while observing two zero-center balance meters. The signals may be read to ±3 dB and ±3.0° or ±90° full scale. Accuracy is better than 5 per cent for all scales, and the null resolution is ±0.05 dB and ±0.05°. A self-contained solid-state reference signal generator produces up to 3-watts power output from a balanced varactor double stage at 1296 Mc."
"Application of noise-modulated systems frequently involves measurement of autocorrelation by finite time averaging. Formulas are developed for the error involved in such measurement for case of frequency modulation by noise. Comparison is made with the case of amplitude modulation. Optimum filters for averaging are calculated and their performance compared in one case with that of the ordinary time average."
"A discussion is given of the origin of various errors that may occur in the measurement by cavity perturbation techniques of narrow magnetic-resonance linewidths. It is shown that the absorption by a spherical magnetic sample in a microwave cavity varies as sin2θ, where θ is the angle between the static and microwave magnetic fields. A method of choosing the optimum cavity parameters for minimizing measurement errors is presented, and a proof is given of a tuning technique that has been used to compensate for dispersion of the cavity resonance during a measurement. A detailed description also is presented of a magnetic-resonance spectrometer that has been used for the accurate measurement of magnetic-resonance absorptions with widely varying intensities and very narrow linewidths."
"Design and operating details of a voltage ratio measuring circuit are presented. The circuit employs a wide bandwidth function multiplier as a variable gain amplifier. The denominator voltage activates a feedback loop causing multiplier gain adjustment. Adjustment proceeds until the multiplier output is equal to a Zener reference voltage. The multiplier gain is then equal to the ratio of Zener reference voltage to denominator voltage. Multiplier gain is stored by an integrator serving as a memory. The numerator voltage does not activate the feedback loop, but is simply amplified by the multiplier. The resulting output voltage is the ratio of the input voltages referred to a Zener reference. Null-balance time of 5 μS allows ratio measurement of 16-kc pulse pairs."
"This paper is based on a study made by the author of a simple and reasonably accurate transient method for determining the thermal conductivity of potting compounds. This method used a cylindrical test specimen with axial heat addition. The shape of the specimen described in this report has no bearing on the measurement as long as the specimen is of sufficient size. This paper presents mathematical proofs of the transient method studied, describes apparatus for making tests, and gives comparative results between transient method and steady-state method."
"Extension of high Q resonant devices, such as microwave cavities, into the millimeter region, leads to prohibitively small structures at frequencies above 100 Gc/s. The Fabry-Perot interferometer [1]-[3] serves as a satisfactory high Q millimeter resonator, however, since the size of the structure is relatively large compared to a wavelength. This size may be determined in part by external requirements. This paper presents the results of experiments on several different types of interferometers."
"A coaxial calorimeter has been built for use in the comparison of power at high frequencies with dc resistance and voltage standards. The temperature rise of the metal jacket of a 50-ohm coaxial termination is measured with a thermopile when a known level of dc power is fed into the calorimeter. The high-frequency sensitivity of the calorimeter is obtained by modifying the dc sensitivity for: 1) Input VSWR of the calorimeter, 2) Attenuation of a 6-inch length of thermally insulating input coaxial line, 3) The effect of current distribution in the load. The accuracy is estimated at better than ±1 per cent below 4 Gc/s with the largest errors due to the input VSWR of the calorimeter."
"This paper describes a new approach to the design of RF instruments which are capable of measuring phase difference, level, distortion, and amplitude modulation of high-frequency signals from about 1 Mc/s to 1000 Mc/s or higher. The basic block consists of a modified phase-lock loop with a search and reset circuit. The input high-frequency signal is sampled, the frequency of the sampled output is locked to a reference frequency of a few kc/s, and the output waveform is a sampled replica of the input waveform. Using such a loop, measurements of RF signals can be made easily by a constant low-frequency readout circuit. Synchronization is obtained automatically for any input frequency without the need of a separate trigger circuit. Limitations as well as applications of the sampling phase-lock loop are briefly discussed."
"A versatile and simplified electron beam system for producing variable duration pulses is described. The electron beam is swept over a narrow slit; the electrons passing through the slit fonn the variable duration pulse. A minimum pulse duration of 3 ns is theoretically possible with the present maximum sweep frequency of 1 Mc/s. However, the system should be adaptable with modification to accommodate higher sweep frequencies with a corresponding decrease in the pulse duration. Longer duration pulses, manually controlled single pulses, and repetitive pulses can be readily obtained. The electron beam is accelerated up to ground potential by a maximum accelerating potential of 60 kV. Beam currents up to 125 , μA have been measured; however, beam currents considerably higher should be possible. Many of the components used in the system are commercially available."
"The design of a 20 kV, 60 , μF, 12-kJ capacitor bank for pulsed magnetic-field studies is reported in detail. In particular, a parallel-plate discharge circuit is described which results in a total bank inductance of 120 nH. Initial experiments with a flux concentrator magnet coil yielded a magnetic field of 250 kG in a volume of 2.41 cm3 at a bank voltage of 14 kV."
"A tuned cathode-ray null detector developed for use with a current transformer test set is described. Apart from the cathode ray tube, the detector is completely transistorized and has been designed to detect signals as low as 20 µV at frequencies of 50, 60, and 400 c/s. The third harmonic is down at least 40 dB from the fundamental."
"The output spectrum of an idealized version of a reentrant delay line speed-up device is calculated. Study of this spectrum yields considerable insight into the rather peculiar way in which this device achives a speed-up in real time. The analysis is then modified to show the effects of time sampling and boxcarring on the output spectrum. Finally, the use of digital instead of analog delay lines is discussed, and an expression for the power density spectrum of the output quantization noise is derived."
"An expression for the electrometer transfer impedance Z21 is derived which describes the high-gain amplifier and the feedback network as general functions of the Laplace operator s. The equation derived is in the form of the general feedback equation, enabling the designer to employ the many tools of feedback analysis, such as root locus, Nyquist or Routh stability criteria, and Bode plots. Previous analyses have been limited to a constant forward transfer function and a feedback network employing a simple pole. Using this general analysis, the electrometer designer can take into consideration the unavoidable poles and zeros which are found in the forward transfer and feedback network. Furthermore, he can use this analysis to synthesize different desirable transform characteristics, thus optimizing electrometer design for a particular application."
"Ideally, the vertical electric field strength of a propagating VLF wave can be measured by observing the terminal voltage of a short dipole antenna placed in the field; but, in applying this principle a number of practical difficulties are encountered. Methods of overcoming these difficulties have been studied using a working-model field-strength meter of convenient dimensions. Such a device can be calibrated with reference to standards of voltage and length and, hence, offers a fundamental advantage over the use of vertical antennas and ground screens. It also provides an alternative to the common practice of estimating the electric field by measuring the associated magnetic field and applying a conversion factor. Evidence is presented to indicate that this latter method may sometimes be subject to experimental or interpretational difficulties. Error analysis shows the present working model is capable of measuring VLF field strengths to an accuracy of about 5 per cent."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new broadband coaxial thermistor mount is described which has as its major feature the virtual elimination of a dc to RF substitution error commonly encountered in the measurement of the RF power. Secondary features include the simplicity of the design and the potential ease of matching thermistors for temperature-compensated power measurements. The termistor mount utilizes a single center tapped thermistor in place of the two thermistor beads normally used in coaxial mounts. The data taken on the thermistor mount indicate the elimination of an error described in detail in a paper by Glenn Engen, \"A dc-RF Substitution Error in Dual Element Bolometer Mounts.\" Typically, this error is in the order of 1 percent at 10 mW and 2 percent at 15 mW of applied RF power for conventional dual bead thermistor mounts, and is due to the two beads having different dissipation constants and a shift in resistance when RF power is applied. Measurement of resistance shifts and the dissipation constants of the respective sections of the thermistor for a number of tapped thermistor beads and mounts have been made. The results indicate that this substitution error is typically reduced to below 0.1 percent up to 15mW of applied RF power. The error calculation is based upon a derived expression for the substitution error. A coaxial thermistor mount is described which is usable at RF frequencies up to 12.4 Gc/s."
"Most analyses on a circular coil when used in the eddy current method for nondestructive testing are empirical. Theories based on simple models are often inadequate to account for some experimental observations when the spacing between the coil and the material became small. In the present paper this problem is formulated as a boundary value problem. Wave equations of the magnetic vector potential are solved. The change in the coil impedance, when placed above a semi-infinite medium, is obtained by means of the induced voltage method, which is shown to depend only on the ϕ component of the magnetic vector potential. This change in impedance is found to be dependent on a number of factors: the shape and size of the coil; the spacing between the coil and the metal; the thickness, conductivity, and composition of the material, etc. Numerical computations are discussed for a few selected materials in connection with experimental results obtained elsewhere. The comparison made lent support to the present analysis. Extension of this method to the case of a stratified media is included."
"An analysis of the measured errors of a large number of rotary-vane attenuators has shown that the systematic error present is correlated with vane misalignment. This paper shows that a study of the gear mechanism used to drive the rotating vane has revealed an additional systematic error for which corrections can be made. This error is the angular displacement caused by eccentricity. Graphs are used to illustrate the readout scale error in decibels at various magnitudes of the drive-gear eccentricity and driven gear pitch diameter. An electrical alignment technique utilizing a correction equal to the \"average vane-angle error,\" which is determined from calibration data, is used to align the rotating vane to an accuracy of ±0.0012°. Vane alignment by this technique can reduce the systematic error of vane misalignment by an order of magnitude and decrease the deviation in attenuation at high values of attenuation as much as two orders of magnitude."
"The establishment and maintenance of the highest possible order of accuracy for the measurements of voltage ratio and phase angle are responsibilities of the national laboratories. This paper reports the results of an international comparison of a seven-decade inductive voltage divider by the United States National Bureau of Standards and the National Research Council of Canada. The calibration techniques used in each laboratory are discussed in detail, and the results of calibration at 400 and 1000 Hz are compared. The accuracies of measurements are within 0.1 ppm of input for voltage ratio and 1 (setting of dials)1/2 microradians for phase angle."
"The effect of relative motion on the contact resistance between certain superconductors has been investigated. Results are presented for a variety of speed, pressure, and current conditions for lead-lead contacts of the slip-ring type in which one or both members are electroplated with a thin layer of normal metal."
"A four-terminal network in which the complex output-to-input ac current or voltage ratio may be adjusted is described. The design of an experimental Adjustable Complex-Ratio Transformer for use at a frequency of 60 Hz, in which the output-to-input current ratio (Io/Ii = α+jß) can be adjusted with two sets of 5 decade dials to 0.1 percent accuracy, is presented. The application of the instrument for the direct reading of the difference of two alternating currents is discussed."
"A dc conductance bridge for laboratory use is described which embodies a combination of features not found in any other bridge. The range of measurement extends from 10-15 mho to 1 mho, and the minimum detectable change in conductance is 4X10-16 mho. Bridge voltages of 6, 45, and 135 volts may be applied. Since the highest resistance arm is only 107 ohms, the time constant of the bridge is small and the effect of leakage in shunting an arm is very small. By virtue of a specially designed terminal block, guarded and shilded measurements can be made at, or remotely from, the bridge terminals. Provision has been made for performing both grounded and direct conductance measurements. For high conductance measurements, a zero balance circuit has been incorporated to compensate for lead resistance. The resolution is ten parts per million from 1 mho to 10-9 mho. The bridge performance was studied employing individual calibrated resistances, and low conductance wye networks fabricated from these components. The accuracy is better than 0.05 percent from 1 mho to 10-8 mho, about 1 percent at 10-12 mho, and 5 percent at 10-14 mho."
"Probably no instrument is used more than the laboratory ohmmeter. Perhaps because of the appearance of sensitive meter movements with large scales and the addition of electronic amplification, no instrument has seen less development in its basic design and none is more deserving of reappraisal. One of the basic defects in all existing ohmmeters is the scale-crowding which naturally occurs when a range of zero to infinity is adopted. This report describes a circuit modification which results in a considerable expansion of the ohmmeter scale, thereby making it possible to read resistance values more accurately."
"Measurements and comparison of standard resistors are generally carried out in Standards Laboratories employing the well-known Wheatstone and Kelvin bridges. In the present paper the use of a dc current comparator has been described in order to compare a set of standard resistors. The results obtained lie within 1 to 5 ppm of those determined by the conventional methods. It is believed that with some refinements this method may, in the future, be accepted as an alternative approach of measuring standard resistors in laboratories."
"A transistor dc feedback voltage amplifier using a differential input stage followed by a single common emitter stage is analyzed to obtain the gain and drift rate dependence on temperature. It is found that under typical restraints on allowable input terminal current, the open loop gain of such an amplifier is restricted to a value only somewhat greater than twenty (q/2kT) times the voltage across the collector load of the common emitter stage. The drift rate is found to depend on the common emitter stage transistor and on the signal source resistance as well as on the differential stage. A conservative design philosophy which limits each of the factors contributing to drift rate is found to be necessary if predictable, parameter independent performance is to be obtained."
"An apparatus has been developed for monitoring the instantaneous surface potential of photoconductive insulators during illumination. In addition, instrumentation methods have been evolved for measuring the effective photoinduced discharge current, transit time, and mobility of charge carriers in such materials. The device has proved useful and convenient for qualitative evaluation of the photoinduced discharge characteristics of electrophotographic paper and plate materials under dynamic conditions. It also provides means for precise quantitative measurement for theoretical study of the photoconductive properties of such media. Circuit analysis and theory of operation of the apparatus are described. Discussions are given on the accuracy and usefulness of the techniques presented for monitoring the effective photoinduced discharge current to yield insight into the electrical and optical properties of photoconductive insulators. Test data are shown and discussed."
"N.L. Kusters and W.J. M. Moore, authors of the \"The Compensated Current Comparator; A New Reference Standard for Current-Transformer Calibrations in Industry,\" which appeared on pages 107-114 of the June-September, 1964, issue of these Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. On page 112 the caption for Fig. 10 should read \"... (1/1 ratio),\" instead of \"(11/ratio).\""
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The results and analysis of an intercomparison between the National Research Council (NRC), Canada, and the National Bureau of Standards (NBS), Washington, D. C., of two contrasting types of current ratio standards (current comparator and current transformer) are presented. The agreement achieved between the two laboratories when their respective designs and methods of measurement were quite different is emphasized. To this end, the basic theories underlying the design and operation of the current comparator and current transformer are contrasted; the origin and significance of their respective errors are summarized; the (N+1) method used at NBS to measure the errors of the multirange transformer standards up to 10 kHz is contrasted with the (N+1) method (one of several) used at NRC in calibrating the comparator standards. The comparison circuit used at NRC to compare the respective standards of the two laboratories is described. The errors of the transformers as measured at NBS and NRC are presented and contrasted in both tabular and graphical forms."
"The design and construction of five different multiratio current comparators developed for use at audio frequencies is presented. The effectiveness of the various shields on the reduction of the current null detector error over the operating frequency range is shown. Equations are developed which illustrate the effect of several different arrangements of windings and grounded shields on the ratio winding error. All of the comparators are of the compensated type and each is rated at a secondary current of five amperes. Four have fixed primary windings which can be series-paralleled to obtain various ratios from 1 to 1 to 12 to 1. The fifth comparator is a feed-through type with a 100 turn secondary winding which provides ratios up to 100 to 1. Circuits are described which enable the calibration of these comparators to be performed, and the results of calibration at frequencies up to 16 kHz are given. A method of estimating the error at different ratios to within a part in a million, based on experimentally determined parameters and assumed uniform distribution, is also described. The main conclusion of the study is that for current transformer calibration the best design includes a grounded copper shield between the primary and secondary windings."
"The design, construction, and performance of two nearly identical, multirange current transformers for operation 400 Hz to 10 kHz and with errors of only a few ppm are discussed. A general discussion of the parameters that influence the performance of single-stage transformers and their consideration in effecting minimum errors throughout a wide frequency band is included. Construction of the two standards having consecutive ratios 1 to 1 to 6 to 1 and operating at a rated secondary current of 5 amperes is described. Circuit diagrams are used to describe 1) the self-calibration circuit for measuring the errors of the 1-to-1 ratios and 2) the (N+1) circuit together with an auxiliary circuit for measuring the errors of ratios> 1. Balance equations are derived in the Appendix. Measured values are presented; included are the results up to 16 kHz obtained at the National Research Council, Canada, during an international comparison and described in a companion paper [6]. The effects of polarization at low frequencies are emphasized by utilizing the 400 Hz data together with information obtained in supplementary experiments; also the role of winding and interwinding capacitances and the necessity for a more explicit definition of current ratio at the higher frequencies is highlighted."
"RC oscillators based on two active phase shifters of the all-pass type prove to be tunable over a 10-to-1 frequency range by varying a single resistance. Harmonic distortion can be less than 1 percent over this range. Analysis is made of the variation of Q with tuning and the dependence of phase shift on detailed circuit parameters. Oscillators of this type can be used in telemetry to generate a subcarrier frequency which is a measure of transducer resistance. With temperature compensation, oscillator frequency stability is sufficient to permit the measurement of temperature to ±0.1°C over the range -5°C to 40°C using a thermistor sensor."
"Systems are described which reject both coherent interference (modulator-leakage pickup) and noise in laboratory modulation-demodulation systems, such as those used in microwave laser-communications experiments. The approach involves the use of audio-rate chopping and phase sensitive detection along with zero-IF or homodyne detection. Using these techniques, it is possible to make quantitative measurements of desired signals which have amplitudes several orders of magnitude smaller than coherently related interference signals, while rejecting both chopped and unchopped noise. Calibration techniques are discussed, and experiments are described which verify the operations of these systems."
"A system for calibrating and using a group of dc and ac standards has been developed at NBS to meet increasing needs for greater accuracy in the measurement of direct and rms alternating voltages at audio frequencies. With a group of saturated cells, a universal ratio set as a potentiometer, a simplified self-calibrating volt box, and a new differential-thermocouple ac-dc comparator, an accuracy of 10 ppm can be obtained for direct voltage measurements and 40 ppm for rms alternating voltage measurements between 20 and 20 000 c/s, in terms of the direct volt and the ac-dc transfer standards maintained at NBS."
"The paper describes a transformer-coupled bridge suitable for magnetic measurements in the entire audio-frequency range. The bridge is simple in operation and the earth-capacitance effects of the components are extremely small. It does not require elaborate multiple screening of components or any special form of earthing, e.g., Wagner Earthing. It can be adapted easily for measurements under incremental conditions, i.e., under superposed direct and alternating flux in the core. Selected experimental results are included in the paper to show the flexibility of the bridge for the measurements of core-loss and ac permeability between 150 c/s and 20 kc/s with a single set of precision grade laboratory equipment, viz., two units of decade resistor boxes and a decade capacitor box."
"In conjunction with the United States Frequency Standard (USFS) located at the National Bureau of Standards, Boulder Laboratories, two time scales have been established. The NBS-A time scale is referenced to the USFS in accordance with the definition of the atomic second as adopted by the 12th General Conference of Weights and Measures in October, 1964. The epoch of this scale was set to be nearly coincident with the epoch of UT-2 at 00: 00 hour January 1, 1958. The NBS-UA time scale is also referenced to the USFS but the frequency offsets and shifts in epoch as announced by the Bureau International de l'Heure (BIH) in Paris are incorporated in this time scale. Thus, NBS-UA is an atomically interpolated approximation to UT-2. The accuracies of time interval measurements referenced to these time scales are believed to have essentially the accuracy of the USFS [1]-the accuracy of the USFS is about one part in 1011. The NBS-UA time scale is presently being disseminated by the NBS radio stations WWVL, WWVH, and WWV. The phases of WWVL transmissions have been maintained coherent with the NBS-UA time scale with a precision of about ±3 μs and the epoch of the WWV transmissions with a precision of about ±10 As since January, 1964. Since January 1, 1965, the WWVB phase has been maintained coherent with NBS-A."
"The United States Frequency Standard and National Bureau of Standards Time Scale are described, and the techniques by which they are used to control the broadcasts from WWVB and WWVL, Fort Collins, Colo., are presented. A practical method for control of frequency and time broadcasts from WWV, Greenbelt, Md., is described and actual results shown."
"Since Hall effect is the result of multiplying together a magnetic and an electric field, taking into account any phase difference between them, a wattmeter employing a semiconductor device of this kind is a logical development. The paper describes three experimental applications in the United Kingdom, including single- and three-phase instruments metering the power input to 132 kV grid lines and also to 240 volt ac cables, with a record of their performance under practical operating conditions on Central Electricity Generating Board installations. Experience showed that using indium arsenide as the semiconductor element, temperature errors were reduced to an insignificant level and an overall accuracy of about ±2 percent was readily obtainable. It is claimed that this type of instrument applicable to high-voltage lines without the need for special current and voltage transformers is much cheaper than the conventional dynamometer equipment for the same purpose and quite as reliable."
"A companion paper [1] has given a historical review of torque transducers using the phenomena of magnetic-stress anisotropy and has described the design and operating principles which will yield devices of high precision. The present paper describes a physical theory of operation which yields quantitative results in reasonable accord with the measured data."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The theory of continuous and discrete array signal processing is considered for tracking and navigational radar (sonar) systems. The purpose of the active array (and the associated filtering) is to detect an echo of a transmitted pulse reflected from a target in the presence of correlated reverberation or clutter and uncorrelated noise, both of which may vary from antenna-array element to antenna-array element, i.e., both of which are space-time varying functions. The array configuration and signal processor can also be used to determine the target location and direction. For the continuous array the receiving \"elements,\" are distributed continuously in the spatial medium, and the linear processor has a frequency response that is a function of the spatial variables. The discrete array is one where each individual point-receiving element in the spatial medium has a linear signal processor. A linear processor following an active continuous array (aperture) is determined by simultaneously considering the array geometry along with the spatial and temporal aspects of the signal processing filters and the spatial and temporal properties of the noise. The optimization criterion used is the maximization of the array output signal-to-noise ratio. The theory for the active continuous array can be used to determine the linear processor for an active discrete array, e.g., phased array radars. The results for the active-discrete and continuous-array processors are compared throughout the development of the theory. Several examples are considered for both the continuous and discrete arrays."
"This paper discusses the total expected coverage of a target subjected to several shots, each of which has circularly symmetric aiming errors. Both point and diffuse targets are considered and the various aiming points are arbitrary with respect to the target center. For the particular case in which the expected coverage is proportional to the exponent of the square of the distance between the impact point and the target, closed-form expressions are derived. The results have application to the evaluation of various weapon systems, targeting strategy, and two-dimensional search theory."
"This paper is concerned with the analysis of the performance of a zero-crossing type of frequency discriminator when the input signal is a narrow-band Gaussian random process. The sensitivity and the amount of ripple in the output voltage of such a discriminator are found in terms of the autocorrelation function of the input signal. The tracking error and the output frequency jitter of a closed-loop frequency tracker utilizing this discriminator are then found. The predicted jitter of the tracker frequency for this discriminator compares well with the theoretically achievable value found by previous authors. The analysis technique is sufficiently general so that it can be adapted to other types of zero-crossing discriminators."
"A philosophy for the synthesis of a very accurate inertial navigation system is developed here. First, the requirements for a spherical earth navigator are determined, and the basis for a navigator error analysis is developed through the use of mathematical error models. Four types of redundant information are then considered in sequence: external speed information, redundant system gyro, external discrete position source, and additional inertial navigators. The complete inertial navigation system arrived at utilizes all of this redundant information. The presentation is tutorial, emphasizing system accuracy considerations. Reliability as a result of redundant navigators is discussed briefly."
"The properties of gas jet torque coupled attitude control in the design context of a coast phase attitude control system for a nonatmospheric planetary landing space vehicle are discussed."
"The accuracy with which radar range may be determined in a single measurement using non-optimum filters is treated in this paper. In the particular case of a rectangular transmitted-signal waveform, as used in conventional radars, certain difficulties arise in theoretical calculations, since under ideal conditions a zero-variance range (delay) estimate should be possible. Skolnik has overcome this difficulty by assuming a signal pulse with finite rise times, but has maintained the assumption of the availability of a matched filter. In the present paper the matched-filter assumption has been abandoned and a formula for the theoretical accuracy is derived for this sub-optimum case. The specific case of a rectangular pulse and a Gaussian filter is then considered and theoretical results are compared with measurements carried out for this case."
"This paper describes the operation of two spaceranging systems. It evaluates and compares some fundamental capabilities of the two systems described, based upon performance as a function of the ratio of received ranging signal power to noise power density. The characteristics compared are 1) time required for signal acquisition, 2) range measurement accuracy, and 3) maximum range capability. Although no conclusions are drawn as to the preference of one generic type over the other, the results indicate that the described coded system provides greater accuracy and some acquisition advantage compared with the described tone system. Both systems have approximately equivalent threshold capabilities."
"The second-order expression for the torque (or acceleration torque) existing on two arrangements of a modified cryogenic gyro design is derived assuming that an axially-symmetric magnetic field is used for the suspension of the rotor. The modified design consists of interchanging the role of the current coils and the superconductor in the conventional design. In the modified design the coils are now situated on the rotor with the superconductor utilized as the stator (reverse of the conventional design). The two types of arrangements resulting are either the coils, or rotor, surrounding the stator, or the stator surrounding the rotor. For the first arrangement, that of the coils surrounding the rotor, the torque calculations are performed by two methods in order to check the manipulations. For the second arrangement, only one derivation is used. The first-order restoring-force expression for the first arrangement is also presented. The main result for the first arrangement is that when all the components of the first-order restoring force are equal, the second-order torque vanishes. It is also theoretically possible to achieve an ideal, or continuous, distribution of current for the support field such that the constraint of equality on the components of the first-order restoring force is satisfied."
"J.L. Farrell and R. L. Taylor, authors of the paper, \"Doppler Radar Clutter,\" which appeared on pp. 162- 172 of the September, 1964, issue of these Transactions, have called the following to the attention of the Editor. The notation of CM2 appearing at the end of (20) should be replaced by the symbol (cm4), denoting \"centimeters to the fourth power,\" which represents the dimension of R04. In the first paragraph of Appendix II, the phrase \"gain beam gain\" should be corrected to read \"main beam gain.\""
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes a three-component force balance which has been developed for measurement of lift, drag and pitching moment acting on models in a low-density, hypervelocity wind tunnel. Although designed for a particular wind tunnel, the general arrangement and the principles involved should be applicable to similar situations. The balance is of the external type operating on the nulling principle. Nulling of each component is accomplished automatically through the use of closed loop control systems. Calibration data and sample wind tunnel measurements are presented which demonstrate that the balance is suitable for the intended application."
"Several unique conditions are imposed upon measurements made in ONERA hotshot wind tunnels: the duration of flow; the environmental conditions; the circumstances under which the tunnels are used. Flow durations between 40 and 100 milliseconds are produced, and this imposes demands upon transducer performance. Instantaneous power consumed by the tunnels is of the order of 200 megavolt-amperes, and this places the transducers and portions of the readout system in an electrical environment wherein elaborate shielding precautions are required. The contract arrangement under which the tunnels are operated necessitates their use in testing for an optimum number of runs within a half-day of operation, and this necessitates the use of highly automated readout apparatus. This paper describes the solutions to these and other hotshot instrumentation problems. Methods of measurement and readout of pressure, forces, and rates of heat transfer are discussed, and systems for calibration are presented. Many elements of the calibration and readout processes have been made largely automatic. Errors contained among data representing the measurement of forces are sufficiently small as to be considered negligible in the face of minor uncertainties in readout constants. Measurement of pressures is conducted to an overall accuracy (including calibration and readout) of 2.5%. Heat transfer calibrations of 5-10% accuracy are imposed, and overall accuracy of heat transfer data ranges between 15 and 20 percent."
"The successful development of a reliable electrical interconnection system for space vehicles is a difficult and challenging assignment, requiring ingenuity and engineering know-how. The design team approach, involving all factors of interconnection design, draws upon the combined experience and knowledge of those intimately aware of the requirements of their specific activity. This approach to interconnection design has already proven itself through a number of successful space missions. Tomorrow's space transportation will require further concentrated efforts in this field."
"The resonant properties of a spherical cavity are described as a means of gauging liquid propellants in a zero-gravity field. The configuration of a liquid propellant in a partially filled spherical cavity have been shown to be such that a spherical vapor bubble exists in the center of the cavity. Spherical wave functions are developed and the boundary conditions applied to give an analytical expression for the cavity resonant frequency as a function of volumetric propellant loading. An aluminum scale-model, two inches in diameter, spherical cavity was constructed and loaded with varying dielectric shells to verify the mathematical predictions. Close agreement, within several percent, was obtained for three different dielectric constants, 2.5, 5, and 10."
"1) The ionized wakes of hypervelocity pellets are investigated by the resonant cavity method (TM010, 250 Mcs). The input admittance of the cavity is measured with a four-probe admittancemeter, providing a XY - trace together with a SMITH chart on an oscilloscope CRT. Two methods are suggested to make the measurement time - resolved. From the two measured parameters (real and imaginary part of the admittance), the plasma parameters (total number N of electrons within the cavity and electron collision frequency ν) are deduced, owing to an energy perturbation theory, which is described. Discussions are included about accuracy, calibration methods and limitations. 2) The same apparatus is used to probe shock - ionized air in a coaxial shock-tube. The propagation of 250 Mcs waves is studied by this way."
"This paper presents a source language based upon decision tables for applications involving automatic test equipment systems. The method described allows the engineer to state his test requirements in an extremely convenient fashion, and permits him to program any test specification directly using engineering terminology. Only a minimum of knowledge about the specific test equipment system and particular programming techniques is required as a background. This method enhances the ability of the engineer to program any automatic test equipment system and reduces long-term programming expenses."
"A systems approach to testability and maintainability and their contributions to cost-effectiveness of a weapon system is presented. The lack of basic data specifically in the testability area is pointed out, and the nature of the information necessary to advance the state-of-the-art is discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A corrected version of Article X Section 1 of the Aerospace Group Constitution is provided (see: ibid., Vol. AS-2 No. 4, pp 1191, Oct 1964)."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this supplement to the periodical."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year. Page references under \"A\" indicate the page in the Transactions on which the Abstract appears; page number under \"P\" indicates the paper location in the supplement. An author's index will be found on Page 103 of the Transactions."
"In this paper the effects of the time harmonics on the output voltage are investigated. Instead of a complete analysis, the waveshape of the line current is considered as recorded on an oscilloscope when the alternator supplies an inverter. The minimum airgap induction occurs when the magnetomotive forces of the fifth and seventh time harmonic oppose the field excitation. The reduction in the amplitude of the fundamental of the airgap induction caused by the time harmonics was found to be of the order of fifteen to twenty percent for a typical cyclo-inverter load."
"In the first part of the optimization process, the width and depth of the rotor tooth are incrementally varied for two airgap radial lengths and two field excitations. In the second part the tooth shape that would yield a sinusoidal voltage is investigated. The numerical results are represented by curves for the no-load radial flux density in a 95 KVA, 120/208 v 3,400 cps alternator. The results show that the fundamental airgap flux density depends on the length of the airgap and on the rotor tooth width. It depends only slightly on the rotor tooth depth and excitation. A more sinusoidal output voltage can be obtained by flaring the tips of the rotor tooth and widening the rotor tooth."
"The theoretical analysis based on electromagnetic field theory is given for high speed aerospace induction motors whose solid rotor is provided with layers of highly permeable and highly conductive materials. Numerical solutions indicate that the efficiency of the rotor as compared with a solid iron rotor is increased considerably. The torque-speed characteristic of the composite rotor motor rises steeply and is nearly flat between 20 and 100 percent slip. The design approaches the characteristic of a multiple cage motor. Operating temperatures are considerably reduced."
"The eddy current losses in rotor tooth-heads of homopolar alternators are generally high and a limiting factor of design. A method is established to calculate eddy current losses in rotor designs with titanium wedges in the intertooth space. A computer program solves numerically the boundary value problem that yields the electric field intensity in the conducting materials. Inverter loads on an experimental 95 KVA, 3,400 cps, three-phase homopolar alternator are calculated to be approximately five percent."
"The partial differential equation for the vector-potential of heteropolar machines is established taking into account the non-linearities of the materials and the current distributions. The non-linear equation, similar to Poisson's equation, is transformed into a partial difference equation. The magnetic induction is found at discrete points in the cross section of the machine. A new relaxation procedure, accelerated greatly by the use of a new physical method of adjusting the vector potential between two successive iterations, is used. The method is shown for an aerospace synchronous generator. Calculated and test results of the no-load characteristic agree quite well. Pole tip saturation is fully considered."
"Statistical methods of analysis are used to obtain important physical properties of random signals. A description is given of the system which was designed for use in the Propulsion Wind Tunnel, Arnold Engineering Development Center, to provide the necessary signal conditioning and the analog-to-digital conversion at a rate high enough to prevent mixing of the spectral densities. The overall system transfer function is discussed, and the system limitations are defined."
"This paper describes the development of a special servo computer for wind tunnel applications to provide analog computations and indications of Mach number and dynamic pressure. Division of up to six aerodynamic variables by the dynamic pressure can also be performed. The computer uses simplified techniques as compared to usual analog computer practices which are allowable because of the special application. Multiple ranges of Mach number and dynamic pressure are used to obtain improved accuracy. The system can be used, with minor modifications, by most wind tunnel facilities. The basic techniques could also be used for an accurate air data computer for aircraft applications."
"Temperature compensation of transducers using semiconductor strain gages involves an understanding of the interrelationships between basic sensor performance, transducer design and compensation techniques. This paper describes some of these interrelationships and gives specific information regarding conventional temperature compensation approaches used on production hardware."
"This paper describes an accurate and rapid non-contact surface analyzer for defining a three-dimensional solar concentrator surface contour using a digital computer. The data, representing the surface contour, can be recorded on computer tape and used for a number of final results. In addition to concentrator surface analysis, the analyzer is designed to have the capability for defining surfaces on numerous materials ranging in size from small machined parts to large airplane or missile skin contour."
"Testing in sunlight is an essential step in verifying the quality of large solar-cell panels, and in predicting space performance. Solar testing is usually done at high elevations to minimize absorption of sunlight by the atmosphere. A problem in such solar testing is the orientation of large panels toward the sun continuously, especially when wind gusts can occur. This paper describes a portable electric-motor driven equatorial mount for testing large solar panels. The equatorial mount is anchored by means of an automobile or truck. Design criteria such as geometrical relationships, structural loads, and gearbox details are provided. The pointing accuracy obtained is given."
"The equilibrium temperature of a solar cell panel in space is a function of the ratio of solar absorptance to infrared emittance of the surface. This paper describes a method for reducing solar absorptance by constructing the solar cell so that it will be a reflector in the infrared part of the solar spectrum. Spectral transmittance, spectral reflectance, and spectral absorptance of silicon wafers and N/P and P/N solar cells are presented. A N/P cell equipped with a silver coating on the back surface and a 0.400 micron cutoff cover glass on the front was found to have solar absorptance of 0.66 which is 11 percent less than that of a standard N/P cell equipped with a similar cover glass."
"A packaging system usable for both oriented photovoltaic and flat plate thermoelectric solar arrays is presented which permits six circular disks to open out in an aerospace environment. For a base plate and disk radius of 50 cm, the system enables a maximum power of 435 watts to be delivered to a matched load by an oriented photovoltaic array of six disks plus base plate or 373 watts for 6 disks alone. The latter figure is to be compared with 150 watts (6 disks) for the oriented thermoelectric array. Several comparisons of the two systems in regard to weight, cost, and radiation resistance are discussed. Under certain circumstances, the thermoelectric array has potential cost and weight advantages on a per-watt basis in addition to radiation damage resistance advantages."
"Analysis and design of a cryostat which functions in space by radiative cooling alone are presented. Temperatures in the inner volume of the cryostat are predicted to reach cryogenic temperatures if the cryostat is placed in an earth orbit in the plane of the ecliptic. The advantages of the cryostat include (1) indefinitely long lifetime, (2) no cryogenic or heat pump plant as payload, and (3) the use of certain radio wave, millimeter wave, and infrared detectors. A parametric analysis of various cryostat configurations has been completed to allow solution of design parameters for various applications, earth orbital radii, and internal heat loads."
"Since a prime objective of static power converter design is to minimize weight, optimizing magnetic components is particularly important. This paper derives the fundamental relationship between magnetic device weight and the basic design parameters. These include volt-ampere rating and frequency, characteristics of core and conductor materials, and ratios defining physical dimensions. Also, an expression for estimating heat rejection is obtained; thus, the practicality of a given design can easily be determined."
"The long sought means whereby complete control can be simply exercised over the speed and torque of a 3-phase squirrel cage induction motor has recently been reduced to practice and is currently in operation in full scale hardware. By means of an all solid-state cycloconverter type frequency changer power is supplied to the motor at a controlled frequency and voltage such that the motor is operated at controlled slip in a closed feedback system. In this loop the torque (and therefore, speed) can be instantaneously controlled. A low power level signal which varies the motor slip frequency is the controlling variable. The application of this concept to aerospace drives is discussed with particular attention given to servo-controlled antenna drive systems."
"Continuing refinement of the cycloconverter design art has produced an all solid-state power converter which exhibits high efficiency, small size, light weight and high reliability. The controlability of the modern cycloconverter makes it particularly suitable for such applications as precise AC electric drive systems and light weight variable speed, constant frequency power generating systems. Due to the assumptions of infinite load inductance and infinite frequency ratio, the use of classical grid-controlled rectifier theory in the analysis of practical cycloconverters is not sufficiently accurate. According to classical theory, only ripple components of distortion appear in the cycloconverter output. This paper deals with the origin and nature of sub-ripple distortion components in the output."
"This paper analyzes the rotating rectifier type aircraft generator system so that a digital computer study of system transient response may be made. A detailed analysis of the generator is made using Park's equations. This analysis results in a mathematical model which is quite easily handled by a digital computer. A single time constant transfer function is used for the exciter-rectifier which has proved sufficiently accurate. The generator analysis could be extended to the exciter and rectifier equations derived in Reference 3 used to obtain better accuracy if sufficient exciter-rectifier data is available. The regulator transfer function is a ratio of polynomials with limits and constants furnished by the designer. The purpose of this paper is to present the detailed generator analysis and briefly discuss the methods of representing other system elements and the computer program used for problem solution."
"Flight monitoring and control of manned spacecraft requires near-real-time assessment of large quantities of complex data. To provide centralized control, a Mission Control Center has been established at the Manned Spacecraft Center at Houston, Texas. This paper describes the design philosophy for the Display and Control System, with emphasis on modularity, versatility, and reliability. Technical and operational details are provided for the equipment designed and implemented to satisfy the flight control requirements."
"The Mission Control Center, located near Houston, Texas, provides the capability for real-time control and direction of manned space-flight missions. The facility utilizes general-purpose digital computers and flexible, special-purpose systems to satisfy data routing, processing, display, control and communications functions. Systems are duplicated to provide simultaneous, but separate, mission control and mission simulation exercises."
"Error-free radio command control of manned and unmanned spacecraft used in the manned spacecraft program is mandatory for mission success. This paper outlines the history, philosophies, and methods used in the development of the Digital Command Network implemented for this purpose. This network is designed to the concepts of error detection, versatility, and reliability. This paper will explain the basic concepts of design, the configuration of ground command sites involved, and the overall network which evolved to satisfy the command requirements of manned spaceflight control."
"During the normal progress of design, fabrication, and integration of communications subsystems for spacecraft and for ground installations, every effort is made to assure that the equipment meets certain specifications relating to performance, environment, reliability, and interface capability. These specifications are based on the best available definition of requirements and interface characteristics of complementing subsystems. Frequently, in the field of manned spaceflight, the spacecraft subsystems, the launch vehicle subsystems, and the ground systems must be designed and constructed concurrently. This means that the operating and interface characteristics of one subsystem are not available for use by the engineers in the design of the other subsystems. Close technical liaison among the various engineering groups is essential in the accomplishment of overall systems' integrity. Component and subsystem testing has been developed to a high degree, but the results of these are necessarily limited. They cannot validate the overall systems' performance and compatibility. It is considered mandatory that the interfacing subsystems be mated to form a complete system in a controlled test environment as early as practicable in any program, especially in one involving communications systems as new and as complex as those for Apollo. This must be accomplished at such a phase in the program that corrective engineering details can be fed back to the cognizant design, fabrication, or integration groups involved in time for necessary modifications prior to the beginning of the flight phase."
"In order to achieve maximum vehicle efficiency, it is essential that the vehicle propellants be loaded to desired values and that these propellants approach simultaneous depletion at the end of powered flight. To accomplish precise loading and assure minimum residuals, a highly accurate and repeatable, vehicle located, propellant management (PM) or propellant utilization (PU) system must be used. As the ability to load propellants to predetermined values depends directly on the ability of the system to accurately sense the propellant masses, it is essential that the system be calibrated with respect to propellant mass under conditions resembling those to be experienced during final loading and powered flight. The use of a cryogenic weigh system will reduce the unknown factors in capacitance sensor element shaping, tank geometry, and propellant properties to a degree which will permit the determination of propellant masses to within 0.25%. This paper describes the basic purpose for acryogenic weigh system in connection with the calibration of the Saturn Propellant Utilization System used on the S-IV stage."
"Two basic methods for mass determination are: (1) direct measurement, (2) volume and density determination. Both methods or variations have been used to determine space vehicle propellant mass with varying degrees of success. Stringent propellant loading accuracy requirements of ±0.5 percent for the Saturn S-IV Stage have led to the development of a Cryogenic Calibration Weigh System. The method employs accurate electronic force transducers and measuring systems as the standard and experimental weighings have verified achievement of better than the required accuracy."
"In order to provide stage pre-launch thermal environment and to prevent frost formation on the exterior tank surfaces, it was necessary to provide a heated, gaseous nitrogen atmosphere around the stage during cryogenic calibration. Frost formation is undersirable since it would add to the stage tare weight by an unknown amount. Nitrogen conforming to military dryness and cleanliness specifications was chosen for use in contact with the stage skin because of its low moisture content, its inertness with hydrogen or oxygen, its availability, and cost. This paper presents the design concepts of the S-IV and S-IVB stage systems, an appraisal of the S-IV design, and the design changes in the S-IV system as a result of the S-IV experience."
"During cryogenic weigh system operation, hydrogen when combined with oxygen can create an unsafe condition. Therefore the concentration of the residual oxygen and hydrogen from leaks in the cryogenic weigh environmental bags must be known at all times during the cryogenic weigh. Hydrogen and oxygen detectors will provide the optimum method for maintaining safe conditions. Hydrogen properties and safe mixtures are reviewed. The method selected to analyze the oxygen content is discussed. The selection, development, and testing of a hydrogen detector system is examined."
"This paper presents the electrical system used to drive the chilldown motor pumps on the S-IVB space vehicle. This system consists of a 56 volt battery supplying power to the two three-phase solid state inverters which in turn drive two cryogenic motor pumps. Included in this paper is a short description of the overall chilldown system requirements. The advantages of the a-c system over the d-c system are discussed with emphasis on weight and reliability. Two functionally identical 1.5kva inverters were designed. One inverter uses germanium transistors in the output stage while the other uses silicon transistors. Both inverters were designed to have a quasi-square wave output. The inverter circuitry is described and the advantages of each is discussed including a comparison of weight, size, operating temperature, efficiency and voltage rating."
"Load division was accomplished by locking both static inverters in-phase and automatically controlling the magnitude of each inverter's internal voltage. Mathematical analysis shows (1) that the inverter internal impedance determines design of load division circuit, and (2) any reasonable load division accuracy can be obtained by using sufficient load division circuit gain. This paralleling method can be used with any number of static inverters and offers unique adaptability, reliability, and high power capability for aerospace applications."
"The purpose of this paper is to reconcile the wide range of weights quoted for aerospace static inverters of the same VA rating. The inverters discussed are of conventional input and output: 15 to 500 vdc input and 400 cps sine wave output. Specification and application factors affecting inverter weight are tabulated. Graphical relationships are given for the effects of some factors for which relationships can be defined. Trends are indicated for the weight effect of factors for which graphical relationships are not given. The data presented should be useful to systems designers, in avoiding undue inverter weight, by proper specification and application of static inverters."
"Capacitor sinusoidal alternating current characteristics were obtained as a function of temperature and frequency. Calorimeter measurements of capacitor heat loss rates were used to determine dissipation factors and to correct impedance bridge data. Application of dissipation factor data to the rms component values of the commutating capacitor complex waveforms yielded excellent agreement with commutating capacitor losses as measured by calorimeter."
"Efficiencies of over 90 percent have been obtained in this high-frequency non-dissipatively regulated d-c to d-c converter over a wide variation of temperature, load, and input supply voltages. Synchronization and phase-locking of two identical complementary converters are used to minimize many of the ripple and filtering problems which have been disadvantages of previous converters using similar techniques for voltage conversion and regulation. Operation of the converter is described in detail with emphasis being placed on the energy-storage and energy-transfer functions of the reactive elements and on the synchronization of the two converters."
"The use in experimental gas dynamics of the electron beam fluorescence technique has been discussed. The several successes of this probing method have not been exhaustively reviewed; rather, emphasis has been placed on those aspects of an energetic electron beam's interactions with a gas that are not yet satisfactorily understood. The uncertainties which presently inhibit the development of the technique's full capabilities have been specified. It has been shown that many of the principal problems associated with the beam probe originate in the emission excited by secondary electrons. Also, in some cases, diffusion of the beam excited fluorescence as a result of resonance transitions can be a concern. The desirability of undertaking studies that will extend the technique's present operating range and accuracy has been emphasized. A simplified instrument (Rotational Temperature Apparatus) previously described by two of the present authors for measuring static temperatures in nitrogen flows has been optimized. It was found that for an error estimation based on the statistics of counting photons the optimum instrument comprised two narrow pass band interference filters each with a half width of about 8Å."
"An automatic technique, utilizing a large high speed computer for the analysis of records obtained from accelerometers, pressure guages and gyros installed in the re-entry vehicles of the Black Knight rocket, is described. It is shown that this enables a suitable arrangement of only three accelerometers to yield trajectory data, angular motion and the aerodynamic characteristics of the re-entry body. Examples of the analysis of accelerometer and rate gyro data are given and the lines of further development and some applications are indicated."
"A new technique is presented for measuring thermal radiation. The technique was conceived to aid in the evaluation of the base heating experienced by rocket vehicles due to radiation from the exhaust plumes. The instrumentation, chosen for its ruggedness combined with high sensitivity, is derived from thin-film resistance thermometry as originally developed for short-duration test devices such as hypersonic impulse wind tunnels. A heat meter based on thin-film resistance thermometry functions on the basis of the sudden application of a heat pulse. In the present application, for which the incident heat flux is steady, the heat pulsing is accomplished by actuating a shutter interposed between the sensing element and the incident radiation. Sample gages have been built and subjected to preliminary testing. Attention has been given to the problem of compensating the data for departures from ideal operating conditions such as the finite opening time of the shutter, and also the possible two-dimensional pattern of heat flow into the substrate material of the sensor. In addition, a special method for recalibrating the thin-film sensor is presented and illustrated with experimental results."
"Experimental measurements of electrical discharges caused by corona, glow discharges, and voltage breakdown were made under conditions encountered in aerospace vehicles operating within the 70,000 to 250,000 foot altitude range. All measurements were made in gases commonly used to pressurize spacecraft electrical and electronic compartments: nitrogen, nitrogenoxygen mixtures, and normal atmosphere at sea-level pressure. Test results show that: (1) the onset voltage at which the electrical discharge occurred is much lower for spaced wires than for bundled or twisted wires; (2) the onset voltage between wires increases as the insulation thickness and dielectric constant are increased and decreases as the wire diameter and wire spacing are increased; and (3) that the onset voltage of components depends on the type of component and its connection and installation."
"Conductive dendrites occur as a result of electrochemical reaction between metal conductors bridged by water and the voltage impressed between the conductors. Their formation is the initial step in a sequence that can result in an open circuit, short circuit or disabling change in circuit impedance. The dendrites of various metals were observed and photographed under the microscope. Growth rates were measured for voltage gradients and electrode spacings appropriate to electrical and electronic equipment."
"Performance characteristics of electrical contacts lubricated with niobium diselenide were found to be superior to similar materials lubricated with molybdenum disulfide while transferring power to a slow speed silver slip ring for a period of 1000 hours. Lower and more stable contact voltage was the main improvement shown while operating in a vacuum chamber near 2.0 × 10-8 torr."
"To determine the harmful effects of micrometeoroids and measure their occurrence in space, a unique detector-analyzer system has been developed for NASA Manned Spacecraft Center. The system consists of a modified ballistic pendulum for momentum measurement and appropriate arrangement of capacitive foils for velocity determination. A prototype instrument has been successfully tested in the dynamic range extending from 1 to 45 dynesec."
"This tutorial paper develops equations and techniques useful for designing narrow deviation phase modulated signals containing information-bearing subcarriers and a binary ranging code. Sufficient information is presented to allow a reader, who has access to a digital computer, to design these types of signals. A sample signal design is presented for clarification."
"The dynamic equations for a rigid asymmetrical spinning space station with an internal movable mass are presented in the appendix. The body rates induced by certain mass movements are shown to be elliptic functions for the uncontrolled space station. This assumes the mass movement is simulated by impulsive product of inertia changes. A linear analysis is presented for the controlled space station using a gyroscopic controller. The controller provides nutation damping and limited precession control."
"A technique has been developed for the determination of heat-shield sublimation (char) and surface recession (ablation) during an atmospheric reentry. A radioactive \"line\" source embedded in the heat-shield material sublimes and ablates at the same rate as the heat shield. Decreases in source activity are monitored by miniaturized nuclear counters. Accuracies exceeding 90 percent are obtainable. The technique provides a continuous indication of char and ablation rates."
"Twenty-two gage and 12-gage power conductors were developed using rhodium power wires, magnesium oxide insulation, platinum sheathing, and alumina end-seals. The conductor systems maintained their electrical integrity through a variety of environmental tests, including vibration, mechanical shock, acceleration, humidity, vacuum, and nuclear radiation. The wires were operated successfully at 2000°F. Rated current was determined and assigned as 10 amperes for 22-gage and 60 amperes for 12-gage conductors. The conductors passed the final cyclic test of carrying rated current at room temperature for 2 hours, at high vacuum for 25 hours, and at a reduced pressure at 2000°F for 3 hours."
"Conductor materials for aerospace application should have low resistivity, low density, high strength, and ductility over the temperature range of application. Our work on the development of such materials has shown that the three most promising high-temperature conductors covering both oxidizing and nonoxidizing environments are zone-refined rhodium (< 1600°C), dispersion-hardened platinum (< 1500°C), and dispersion-hardened gold (< 900°C). Methods of producing and fabricating these high-temperature conductors are presented, together with their electrical and mechanical properties."
"A passive mass transfer thermodynamic device employing the latent heat of vaporization of an enclosed liquid is described as a method of precise thermal control for single, low-mass, high-energy electronic components. This device has particular application for electronic components having high power density which are incorporated in spacecraft electronic systems relying otherwise on radiant exchange with the environment as a means of space-environmental thermal control. Specific areas of interest growing out of the design requirements for such a mass transfer device are 1) liquid ullage control under zero-g conditions, precluding loss of liquid due to blow-out, and 2) favorable exploitation of liquid adsorption and surface phenomena in maintaining a continuous heat-sinking effect. The latter effect is demonstrated by data obtained in operating appropriately instrumented thermal control test articles under one-g conditions in vacuum and non-vacuum environments. Satisfactory heat-sinking is demonstrated over a range of energy inputs. Application of the system methodology and capabilities to the problem of space-environmental thermal control is evaluated and summarized."
"The illumination requirements for vision, both for acuity and a sustained effort, are briefly discussed. These requirements are related to the problem of driving a vehicle over the lunar surface during sunlight and during earthshine conditions. Both exterior lighting and interior lighting and their interrelation are discussed, as well as the problems introduced by viewing windows and interior wall finish. Various lighting arrangements are analyzed and recommendations made."
"This study was designed to determine whether specific control/display association stereotypes exist in the population when controls and their corresponding displays are arranged sequentially on a two dimensional surface. The null hypothesis was tested under three control/display configuration conditions by means of a paper and pencil test administered to 70 male college students. Results showed that a reliable correspondence between the location of the display stimulus and the control response exists in orthogonal, rectangular and alternate arrangements of controls and displays."
"This paper points out the primary human engineering requirements now being called out in the new government program management documents. The primary points of integration of human engineering to establish man machine design and test requirements are indicated. A recommended composition of various teams and management of this discipline in industry is presented as a means of complying with system management contractual obligations."
"Manned spacecraft designed for long lifetime in space impose a unique requirement for inflight maintenance for all vehicle systems. The key factors in implementing onboard maintenance are accessibility to equipment, rapid fault detection and isolation, and modularized equipment packaging using a supply of interchangeable components. This paper discusses the general configuration of the Manned Orbital Research Laboratory (MORL) studied under contract NAS 1-3612, NASA Langley Research Center and also presents in digest form some conceptual maintenance, design and installation approaches."
"This paper propounds the philosophy behind the design of a sensing and data collection system for the handling of low-potential physiological signals used in the determination of astronaut well-being. The experience gained from Project Mercury manned flights and numerous studies performed by the NASA, industry, and university groups has contributed to the establishment of the design criteria. The actual hardware for support of the Gemini manned missions has been designed, built, and flight qualified."
"This paper describes the communications and data-handling subsystem (CDHS) for the Advanced Orbiting Solar Observatory (AOSO). The CDHS is presently being developed by Texas Instruments Incorporated for Republic Aviation. Goddard Space Flight Center is the responsible NASA agency. The paper includes a detailed functional description of the CDHS, a presentation of the packaging design, and a brief description of the engineering model constructed. Several pictures of the engineering model are included to aid in the description of the packaging."
"The designers of the Apollo G&N system adopted a conservative but flexible design philosophy. In this paper the development of the guidance computer is described which typifies the application of the design approach throughout the development of the system. The computers have demonstrated a mean-time-between-failure (MTBF) of four to five times that predicted. The success of the design approach has thus been shown by the observed reliability of the system."
"A limited, spacecraft transmission bandwidth has been used in the development of the Apollo Lunar Television system. Using 10 frames/sec and 320 non-interlaced scan lines, the system provides nearly commercial-quality TV pictures. A portable TV camera employing microcircuits is used onboard the spacecraft and on the lunar surface. Reiterative processing of the video signal is used in the scan conversion of the slow-scan TV signal to obtain a flicker-free commercially compatible picture at the home television receiver."
"Nuclear radiation effects on semiconductor devices and circuits are modelled using flowgraph techniques. The usefulness and applicability of a model adequate for both transient and permanent radiation effects in devices and circuits is based on several recent developments in modelling techniques: · the lumped-parameter semiconductor diffusion-controlled model. · the systematic formulation of equivalent circuits with independent and controlled sources. · the development of the closed system approach to assess variation in terms of sensitivity for systems with large number of variables. · the utilization of a computer routine which provides circuit response to given excitations or due to given parameter changes. The lumped semiconductor device model proposed by Linvill is modified to include effects of both neutron and pulse radiation sources. The network-like nature of the lumped device model provides insight into the physical processes involved as well as into circuit changes produced by irradiation. Examples of circuit applications illustrate the use of the lumped model with radiation induced generators of carriers. To account for variations for circuit response due to parameter changes, a technique of evaluating sensitivities for models of any complexity are developed. Criteria for optimization of circuits under parameter changes are established. Emphasis is not on experimental data but on methods and criteria for establishing and evaluating models of circuits in a radiation environment."
"The need for microelectronics in aerospace systems arises from demands for increased reliability and payload. Much existing equipment can be converted to microelectronics without extensive redesign, without sacrificing reliability, and without increasing circuit fabrication costs. This paper discusses the problems and techniques involved in converting a specific VHF subsystem, and the practicality of achieving this at competitive costs under an accelerated schedule."
"The feasibility of a variable-speed constant-frequency generating system for a supersonic transport airplane, having a service life equal to that of the airframe, is examined in the light of supersonic transport requirements and of the history and present development status of VSCF systems for subsonic airplanes The paper outlines work that should be done in order to increase the likelihood of achieving this goal."
"A secondary power system in which all secondary power was extracted from the engine by means of large, variable-voltage, variable-frequency generators was proposed for the Lockheed Phase I SST. The quantity of constant frequency power required in the Phase IIA airplane was not favorable to such a system. The selected system uses wing mounted accessory gear boxes, shaft driven from the engine. CSD/generators on the gear boxes generate the 240/416 volt, 400 cycle ac power which is utilized directly by the major loads."
"This paper presents data for power transmission up to a frequency of 5000 cycles per second and enables calculation of the resistance and inductance of a transmission line delivering high frequency power. Classical expressions are involved. Graphs and data are presented from which values can be selected and the transmission line parameters easily determined. A knowledge of these parameters enables the design of an efficient and acceptable high frequency power transmission system."
"This paper reports on an investigation of techniques concerned with development of efficient and lightweight power conversion units for use with space power systems currently being developed. Results of the investigation provide an insight into the best system approach for supplying high frequency power. The effort was accomplished as part of Contract AF33(657)-11049 for the Research and Technology Division of Air Force Systems Command with Captain Harold L. Briggs as the Project Officer. Specifically, the conversion units analyzed are for supplying high-frequency (50 to 800KC), high-voltage power to accelerate plasma in an electric propulsion engine. Various conversion and power generation techniques are reviewed. Conceptual designs are established for conversion of 60 KW and 300 KW of power from a basic nuclear turbine system. A high frequency alternator is compared with a low frequency alternator using a frequency converter. A number of high frequency alternators are compared. Also, three frequency converter approaches are evaluated and compared; namely, a motor-generator unit, a transistor unit and a vacuum tube unit. The alternate system approaches are compared. Significant design data was derived for a high-speed, solid-rotor type of generator for generating a c power with frequencies up to 200 KC. Parametric data is included to show component sizes, weights and losses for converter units and high-frequency generator concepts. Problem areas for each conversion and generation technique are outlined."
"The increased blast area associated with the 120-inch solid rocket motors used on the Titan IIIC required locating the launch control center three and one half miles from the nearest launch complex. To transmit data over this distance, a data transmission system (DTS) with a transmission capability in excess of five miles was developed. The Titan IIIC DTS uses discrete, digital, and analog signals to monitor and control checkout and launch operations."
"Texas Instruments is presently engaged in design and development of the communication and data-handling subsystem (CDHS) and the associated aerospace ground equipment (AGE) for the Advanced Orbiting Solar Observatory (AOSO). This paper describes the AGE which will be used to test, monitor, exercise, and troubleshoot the CDHS. The observatory-class satellites are very complex and have sophisticated communications and data-handling equipment. The increase in complexity of satellite equipment has resulted in increased demands on the test capability of the checkout equipment. A computer-controlled checkout system has been selected as a result of an analysis of the satellite test requirements. By utilizing a general-purpose computer which controls special equipment designed for the AOSO, the requirement for a rapid, versatile checkout system has been met. This system is described in the following paragraphs."
"This paper is concerned with static inverters and dc link frequency converters. Its purpose is to describe some of the problem areas which should be considered in equipment design, equipment specification, and system design, with the goal of achieving optimum power system design. Five major areas are covered, as follows: (1) Input Overvoltage Transients Causes of transients and their effects on equipment design are discussed, and some means of reducing their effect are shown. Comments are made relative to methods of describing overvoltage transients for semiconductor circuits. (2) Overload and Short Circuit Capability The effect of overload requirements on design is shown, and typical data is given showing some of the trade-off involved. (3) Output Harmonic Requirements The source of harmonics is shown. Means of reduction by filtering and by harmonic cancellation is discussed and trade-off data is presented. (4) DC Source Requirements The need for a bilateral source of low ac impedance is shown. (5) AC Source Problems Rectifier distortion of the source is discussed, and the trade-offs involved in its reduction are shown."
"This paper deals with several selected aspects of signal distribution in automatic checkout systems. These are: 1. The use of relay matrices as control elements 2. The inclusion of self-checking capabilities 3. Problems of systems integration These aspects are not unique to automatic checkout systems. However, due to the nature of automatic checkout systems as presently being designed around digital circuitry, they find either fuller or different applications than in other types of systems. Also, while they are on the surface somewhat disconnected in nature, they tend to interrelate during the implementation of an automatic checkout system."
"An experimental program to select and develop the journal bearing configuration for use in a 24,000 rpm liquid potassium cooled space electric power generator is described. A preliminary study identified the pivoted-pad bearing as most nearly meeting the requirements of the proposed application. Initial tests, using water as the lubricant, revealed the formation of an unusual wear pattern on the pad corners at high speeds (8000-24,000 rpm). The problem was solved with the development of a method of relieving the pad edges to introduce and maintain the lubricant film. Thereafter, extended tests at speeds up to 26,000 rpm proved the bearing could be operated under the proposed conditions. The bearing configuration was then operated successfully to 12,000 rpm in potassium."
"The configuration and design features of a potassium cooled 50 kw model (LMCD-II) generator are described, including the stator bore seal, bearing and shaft seal configuration, and cooling path arrangement. The unique fabrication techniques discussed include precision machining of the rotor, joining of components by electron beam welding, and assembly of the ceramic-glass insulation system. Results of tests both in conventional fluids and liquid potassium are compared with calculated performance. The problems encountered and the areas requiring further development are presented. Finally, the requirements anticipated for the integration of a generator with the power conversion portion of the SNAP-50/SPUR system are discussed."
"A design approach to a high-temperature pressure transducer system for use in closed cycle liquid metal facilities utilizes the displacement of a diaphragm member by the liquid metal pressure. The displacement is then monitored by a suitable transduction device whose output indicates the pressure. A main problem area involves the pertinent characteristics of the transducer. This paper presents the analyses of two transduction system approaches based on (1) thermionic and (2) variable impedance phenomena."
"Development of liquid and vapor screw seals to separate the bearing and rotor cavity in a potassium cooled and lubricated space electric power generator has been completed to the point where ground test application is possible. Individual tests were made in potassium simulating fluids to determine seal performance at laminar and turbulent conditions. Liquid seal performance was verified in 375°F potassium. Vapor seal performance concurred with analysis of a simplified flow model. Remaining problems associated with adaptation of these seals to an actual generator are discussed."
"The design evolution of an amplifier for use in signal conditioning is presented. The advantages and limitations of several designs are discussed. The progressive development is described arriving finally at a most promising method which utilizes old circuitry but new concepts. Detailed characteristics that show unusual advances in power saving, weight, and volume, which are critical aspects in space application, are given."
"When an extra-vehicular suited astronaut steps onto the hostile environment of the lunar surface, he is essentially operating in his own personal spacecraft - the extra-vehicular suit system. The primary function of this system is of course, life support, but at least secondary in importance is the communications link with the lunar spacecraft and earth. Another function supplied by the system is suit telemetry to safeguard the astronaut's well being, as observed by monitors on earth. This includes the transmission of physiological data as well as suit environmental and performance data. The latter includes such things as suit pressure and the amount of oxygen remaining in the suit system. This paper describes the two functions of voice communications and suit telemetry. It includes functional requirements of the communication system which encompass range, relay links, and redundant modes. Design considerations are also briefly covered including past development work leading to the present prototype system. The paper also describes some of the hardware implementation problems including suit antenna considerations."
"The effects of ferrite loading on the characteristics of the rectangular cavity slot antenna, the equiangular spiral antenna, and the log conical spiral antenna are studied. The object is size and weight reduction and this is accomplished at the expense of bandwidth and/or efficiency. The characteristics of the rectangular cavity slot antenna are analyzed and compared with experimental data. The operating frequency may be shifted by magnetic bias. Loading the spiral and log conical antennas lowers the low frequency limit by a factor of two or three. Data are presented on the temperature sensitivity of ferrite materials for aerospace antennas."
"This paper presents the results of a program for the development of aircraft and missile electromagnetic windows to operate at temperatures above 800°F. Included is a review of the experimental work involved in developing a radome composite, high temperature design data and electromagnetic window model fabrication. Experimental work performed in developing the basic composite and much of the design data was sponsored under Air Force Contract No. AF 33(657)-11469. Investigation has shown that the material offers an electromagnetic window life of several hundred hours at 1000°F and several minutes life at 2500°F. This is accomplished from a reinforced aluminum phosphate ceramic material that is processed by conventional fiberglass reinforced plastic fabrication methods."
"A group of high-speed, low-power monolithic thin-film diode transistor logic (DTL) circuits is described for computer and counter applications. A basic die rather than a master wafer approach was taken since most circuits in the DTL system can be fabricated in terms of the basic single-NAND gate. Propagation delay times of 4.5 nanoseconds for the basic NAND gate have been achieved, with a typical average of 6 nanoseconds at a power level of 11.7 mw. Average set and reset times on RS flip-flops are typically 16 and 18 nanoseconds, respectively. The basic die pattern is such that a fan-in expander, single-NAND gate, dual-NAND gate, RS flip-flop, and a binary element can be made in single-chip form by simple changes in the final interconnection mask. Methods of measurement and applications to counters, adders, and shift registers are discussed."
"This paper describes a limited simulation of airborne or space system equipment assembled in the laboratory, on which interference tests were performed concurrently with an analysis of the compatibility using a general-purpose digital computer. Conclusions are presented concerning the needs for input data for a computer analysis of system electromagnetic compatibility, the adaptability of specification test data to these needs, and additional test data which could supply useful information for a computer analysis."
"A perfect field safety record continues from these developments: 1) Determination of the threshold-energy (system safety) rating of several pyrotechnic devices via an advanced pulse technique. A 1 ampere, 1 watt power rating is incomplete and has no direct relationship to threshold energy levels. 2) Evolvement of an unconventional system circuit and logic design. 3) Continued field safety assessment using the Hughes stray energy monitor. It provides a simple, objective go, no-go indication of system safety."
"A sensor has been developed to measure electrostatic fields between a few tenths of a volt/cm and many thousands of volts/cm. The sensor replaces the rotating chopper in traditional electric field meters with a vibrating sensing disk. Since there are no frictional moving parts, the sensor is ideally suited for the space environment and long lifetime applications. The instrument weighs less than 2.0 pounds; the volume is less than 20 cubic inches. Input power is less than 2.0 watts. Output is two 0 to 5 volt telemetry signals indicating magnitude, sign, and decade multiplier of the electrostatic field."
"The experimental portion of the Aerospace program for the determination of RFI at orbital altitudes is described. The need for this effort is shown, and potential sources of RFI are outlined. The methods planned are described in detail and actual hardware for use on the first experimental flight is discussed briefly. Hardware includes antennas, preselectors, and crystal video logarithmic receivers. It is expected that results of the first experiment will be available late in 1965."
"A 100 AH hermetically sealed nickel-cadmium cell has been developed. The problem of heat dissipation, which adversely affects cycle life, has been solved by preventing overcharge. This was accomplished using the recently developed Adhydrode concept. Other advantages of the Adhydrodes are rapid recharge, high recharge efficiency, and operation at low internal pressures. Some characteristics of the Adhydrode signal are given."
"A means of rapid, maintenance free activation has been developed for aqueous primary batteries which must operate at extremely low temperatures by employing chemical heat and a heat exchanger device. Units of various sizes have been made to activate in less than one second and provide normal operation throughout a -650 to 160°F temperature range. A description of the heating device is given together with typical performance results for batteries which have various electrical characteristics."
"Low-voltage converter-regulators provide the key to the utilization of new energy conversion power sources in future space applications. It is now possible to use transistor-converters to boost the low voltage level of thermionic, fuel cell, thermoelectric, and electro-chemical sources to a higher more useable regulated voltage. Improved low-voltage converter-regulators have efficiencies between 70 and 90%. This approach will allow the space power system designer to achieve higher reliability with single-cell sources coupled to low-voltage converter-regulators."
"Fuel cells hold a great deal of promise as power sources for space systems; however, much remains to be learned about the performance of available fuel-cell systems during extended operation (over 2 weeks). This paper describes a test program being conducted to determine the operating characteristics and life of a 1.5 kw Allis Chalmers fuel cell. Although the tests have not been completed, the test setup, procedure, and preliminary results are discussed."
"The basic technology has been developed for high temperature (>1000°F) radiation resistant (>109 rad) space power switchgear under NASA's contract NAS 3-2546 with General Electric. The vacuum insulated switch has been selected to meet these requirements and the megawatt level high frequency (2000 cps) application. Refractory electrodes, tested at 1200°F in a radiant heated ceramic chamber, have cleared 2000 cps alternating currents of 4300 A at 2200 V. DC currents of 21 A have been chopped at 10.8 KV."
"A new static-exciter has been designed for the SNAP-8 electrical generating system, a nuclear powered 80 kva 3 phase, 400 cps space power supply built for NASA Lewis by Aerojet-General Corporation. The exciter-regulator incorporates many new features to meet the requirements for unattended long life in a space and radioactive environment. The design criteria placed reliability far above weight, volume and losses. The result is an exciter regulator which promises to be more reliable than a similar conventional aircraft system by several orders of magnitude."
"The results of a study of secondary power generating systems for a twelve-man logistic spacecraft are presented for orbital space flights of 24 hours and launch dates during the post 1968 time period. Power systems are evaluated on the basis of performance, weight, radiator area and availability. The secondary power systems considered were fuel cells, batteries, Stirling engines, internal combustion engines and turbines. The power generating systems are evaluated for a nominal 1-1/2 kwe continuous load during orbital space flight to establish the various system trends. The peak power requirement for aerodynamic control was established at 14 kwe during entry."
"Plutonium compounds have excellent potential for space power applications, both thermoelectric and thermionic. This paper attempts to systematically present the various information available in the literature; secondly, it includes data generated at Battelle; and third, data obtained from all sources are interrelated in such manner as to suggest several plutonium-bearing thermoelectric and thermionic fuel candidates of greatest worth."
"Product reliability, costs, and schedules have been improved on some programs by the use of digital computers to process and print wiring and equipment lists. This paper describes a project completed this year for the U.S. Navy Bureau of Weapons by North American Aviation, Inc, Los Angeles Division which (1) extended the listings produced, (2), added the automatic production of pictorial wiring diagrams, and (3) prepared a proposed Military Standard - \"Automatic Processing of Wiring Data and Diagrams.\" Evaluation is made of computer data processing and future growth potential is presented."
"This paper covers work on established reliability for power relays by the National Association of Relay Manufacturers and an Air Force appointed committee working cooperatively with SAE Subcommittee A-2R. A practical means of specifying established reliability for power relays using MIL-R-6106 as a basic specification is proposed. Life cycles from qualification, acceptance and requalification tests are combined to establish a reliability of 1% per 10,000 cycles. The authors also cover principles and procedures for the design and manufacture of established reliability power relays."
"Aircraft generating systems are sometimes used in applications in which a large part, if not all, of the system load is pulsating--a load requiring repetitive pulses of current. One example of this type of load is a rectifier system feeding a resonant L-C charging circuit which is periodically charged and discharged. This type of load presents unique problems in the design of the generating system. This paper discusses the general behavior of a generating system with this type of pulsating-load and analyzes voltage and current wave shapes, equivalent generator load, effect of the load on voltage modulation and on voltage regulator design, and other factors. Test data for a model system is included."
"This paper presents an advanced thermal-insulation and structural-support concept developed at Battelle Memorial Institute. A unique, high-temperature, lightweight, metallic structure of relatively high strength is described, which is particularly suited for aerospace applications in which environmental extremes render conventional insulations inadequate. The parameters of the device, a multiple web and foil structure, are explained in detail and related to strength and insulation criteria. The relations developed are sufficiently general to allow custom designing of these two property requirements."
"This paper is an approach to materials selection and design considerations of rotating machines subjected to difficult environmental conditions."
"Accurate estimates of aerospace electro-explosive device reliability can be made only by properly employed techniques of sensitivity testing. Improperly applied, sensitivity testing can produce misleading data which may compromise mission success or result in rejection of reliable units. This paper analyzes techniques used to estimate the reliability of \"one shot\" electro-explosive devices, discusses current practices which can produce suspect data, and suggests remedial action which will lead to accurate and dependable methods of reliability estimation."
"The pulse reflection test method permits a more comprehensive electrical check of an EBW ordnance device than can be obtained by the ac and dc continuity check methods currently in use throughout the industry. Pulse reflection testing is a specialized application of time domain reflectometry. Laboratory tests performed on a triple-scale EBW Test Model showed that waveforms produced by imposing various test conditions are definite and repeatable, and that these waveforms can be interpreted so as to determine whether an EBW device is electrically operable or defective."
"A heat transfer analysis has been made of a typical ordnance header to derive the relationship between the various parameters which determine thermo-dissipative characteristics of the device. Because of the complex geometries and the large number of parameters involved, the solution to this general problem has long been regarded as too complex for direct solution. It has been shown that an equation may be greatly simplified and the number of parameters reduced to eight important ones so that the problem can be programmed for solution by a computer. The program yields temperature distributions as a function of both space and time and for time periods appropriate to the all-fire and the no-fire test conditions, i.e., milliseconds or five minutes. The solutions of the equation have been checked by over 400 firings with various header geometries, materials, and firing currents and found to be quite accurate. The solutions allow one to design ordnance hardware to have a wide range of all-fire characteristics for any designated no-fire characteristic. They also make it possible to predict the changes in ordnance design necessary to increase the no-fire characteristic from present one watt levels to 2, 5, or 10 watt no-fire levels."
"A thin film thermocouple detector has been developed for use in the safety evaluation of electro explosive device wiring. The detector was fabricated using vacuum deposition techniques. Bismuth and tellurium were used as the thermoelectric materials. The resultant device has a thermoelectric power of 220 microvolts/°C and a response time of less than 17 milliseconds. Testing and calibration were accomplished using constant current pulse techniques."
"The theory, design, fabrication, and testing of flat plate thermoelectric generator panels for nearearth orbits are described. These panels are capable of producing 3 watts/ft2 and 15 watts/ pound when operating in a near-earth orbit. The potential advantages of these solar energy converters, as compared to photovoltaic cells, are discussed and include higher radiation resistance, improved watts/pound, and lower cost on a perwatt basis."
"A general design procedure is presented which allows a rapid graphical solution of the performance of the generator for a matched load condition. Furthermore, its performance is evaluated for solar concentrations of 1 to 2 times the solar constant, segmenting of the thermoelements with compatible Bi2Te3 cooling material, increase of the area of the radiator plate over that of the collector plate, and for a satellite probe to pass by Venus."
"A practical thermomechanical configurational design was developed for flat plate thermoelectric generator unit couples (approximately 1 inch by 1 inch) and panels (approximately 3 inches by 3 inches). An account of the techniques used in fabricating these solar energy conversion devices is given. Resulting unit couples provide 3 watts/ft2 with a weight factor of 30 watts/lb for the couple and 15 watts/lb for the panel form. Steady-state and thermal cycle life tests indicate an output degradation of less than 10% in 2000 cycles. These results offer promise of lower cost space power systems with special adaptability to missions not suited to photovoltaic cells. The fabrication of 3-by 3-inch panels of nine unit cells giving 15 watts/lb is described."
"This paper treats some of the theoretical and practical aspects of problems encountered in the development of bonds to thermoelectric materials for a flat plate solar thermoelectric generator. The specific problems encountered in the design and development of a lightweight generator capable of producing 3 watts/ft2 in a variety of earth orbital attitudes are presented and approaches to their solutions are outlined. Design considerations led to the selection of a Bi2Te3-based thermoelectric material and a barrier multilayer-type bond. Performance data are presented on various kinds of bonds to Bi2Te3 alloys; at present, it appears that barrier-type bond performance is critically dependent on the perfection of the barrier layer."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Now that the decision has been made to merge related IEEE interests in the general fields of Aerospace, Telemetry, Military Electronics, and Navigation, it is considered appropriate to record the history of the Aerospace Group, which will bring into the merged Group a wealth of background and accomplishments in the field of Aerospace Electricity."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Cooking equipment in the home kitchen has gone through many refinements during the last twenty or thirty years but basically cooking itself has remained chained to the physical operation of placing the food in a hot environment be it air, steam, water or oil. With the availability of microwaves for cooking, the food can now be cooked in a cool environment. The microwave energy penetrates and is absorbed by the food to be cooked. The key word in microwave cooking is \"penetrates,\" for that is where cooking with microwaves differs from the classical methods of food preparation. The microwave energy travels through the food much as radio waves travel through the atmosphere. The main difference is that microwaves lose energy in the form of heat as they pass through the food. In an oven the energy is reflected by the metal walls and so passes through the food many times, losing energy with each pass. In this manner most of the available energy is used to heat the foodstuff. The number of times the microwaves pass through the material depends upon its size and how much energy is absorbed in each pass. However, a wide variation in loads are easily handled by the microwave oven, the only factor being that the larger loads take a longer cooking time. Thus the magnetron contributes to a cooler, less time consuming, economical, more nutritious kitchen. The Amperex DX-206 cooking magnetron is a reliable, long lived source of microwave energy at a power level consistent with power supply requirements of light weight, small size and low cost."
"The premium cost areas of conventional transistor circuit design are reviewed. Performance attained in simplified designs is given for the tuner, multiplex detector, audio and power source chosen. Specific attention is given to AM and FM sensitivity, limiting, spurious response, and strong signal handling. New approaches to multiplex processing and tuning indication are described. A flexible audio system design and integrated packaging results in a basic chassis for a series of high fidelity instruments."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The yoke analog consists of a series RC network connected across the yoke. If the time constant of this network is exactly equal to the L/R time constant of the yoke, the voltage across the resistor of the RC network will, at all times, be the same as the voltage across the inductive component of the yoke. Since a linear current ramp through the yoke requires a constant voltage across its inductive component, linear scan can be achieved by sensing the analog voltage, comparing it to a D.C. reference voltage and amplifying any error voltage so as to change the yoke current in the required manner. The discussion compares the yoke analog system with conventional systems and cites the relative merits of the analog approach. The generalized design procedures for yoke analog systems are discussed and one particular circuit is covered in detail."
"Over the years, color picture tubes have been greatly improved in light-output performance while their ability to reproduce color has remained as good as or superior to other color-reproduction systems such as printing and color photography. This paper reviews the light-emitting characteristics of many of the phosphors that have been developed for color television, and presents the luminance and color-gamut potential of several tri-color combinations. A color-difference scale for use in color television is suggested and applied to the color-shift phenomenon in red zinc cadmium sulfide phosphor. Color coordinates are presented for twenty common objects and data are given on the desaturation effects of ambient illumination."
"This paper presents a simple analysis of the chrominance and luminance signals required to drive the chromatron, single-gun, color television picture tube. Conversion from the NTSC signal to the required chromatron drive is explained mathematically and graphically. Two common methods of color decoding, the 1, 2, 4 and the chroma-gate systems are described and compared. Semiconductor circuits, developed for the decoder and associated signal processing, are described."
"A brief review establishes the dependence of the required color phosphor screen geometry on the complete electron-optical system including gun, yoke and other external CRT components. Correction of the light ray paths in optical screen printing requires detailed knowledge of electron beam arrival conditions. The paper describes a technique for mapping three-dimensional yoke field boundaries, calculating the complete internal field, and then precisely determining the beam trajectories and landings. A companion program automatically generates the correcting lens surface which for off-axis beams will be aspheric and asymmetric. A process for manufacturing lenses to this prescription will be indicated."
"A circuit providing equivalent performance to the conventional multivibrator or Potter oscillator but requiring only a single triode section is described. Feedback from the horizontal output transformer is applied to make a two stage blocking oscillator with a high impedance point suitable for AFC control. The circuit can be used in low B-receivers and offers attractive potential economies."
"Economic premiums and performance ceilings have limited transistor uses in television receivers. Recent developments have yielded designs with full performance characteristics at cost levels comparable to tube sets. The paper describes innovations in tuner, IF, and AGC circuitry to achieve good sensitivity and strong signal handling. New detector circuits for both sound and picture give improved performance with lower cost. A different approach to the sweep circuit uses either transistor or GCS devices and provides a design freedom to match a variety of supply voltages to the volt-ampere rating of the semiconductor device. An improved noise inverter arrangement is also described."
"Pertinent parameters of performance and compatibility of stereo sound for Broadcast Television are enumerated. To be of general interest, the treatment begins with FM Phenomena and how it relates to Standard Broadcast FM stereo performance. Subsequently, inter-carrier FM is discussed in full consideration of the complications wrought by stereo. Finally, possible stereo systems for TV sound transmission are briefly described."
"The new RCA rectangular 90-degree shadow-mask color picture tubes represent basic advancements in the art of picture-tube development. This family of tubes includes the 25AP22A and 25BP22A, plus the recently announced 19EYP22 and 19EXP22 and other smaller sizes to follow. This new family of color picture tubes features the \" new look\" in screen shape, together with shorter over-all length and all the performance potential and reliability features established by the earlier RCA 21-inch round 70-degree color tubes."
"The inception of all-channel TV set production has greatly increased the interest in UHF tuning. The diverging development of small screen portables and large screen consoles indicated the need for two types of UHF tuners. The design of a high performance low cost UHF tuner (U100) is described. Noise figures for the tuner are in the 8-10 db range with image rejections running from 45 to 60 db. The modification of the U100 tuner for use in an outboard converter is described together with the other elements of converter design."
"A simple phase-correcting interstage network is used to improve the phase characteristic of a television-receiver i-f amplifier. In this way a more favourable amplitude characteristic and better selectivity could be obtained without impairing the transient fidelity. The gain is only moderately affected. These good effects are verified by measurements on a three-stage transistor i-f amplifier incorporating such a corrector."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the use of digital computers to evaluate the transistor linear amplifier performance from y-parameter measurements. It becomes very difficult for a circuit designer to design circuits at high frequencies without accurate knowledge of the basic transistor parameters."
"At wide deflection angles (90°), it is not possible to optimize all performance characteristics of color TV yokes simultaneously. The color yoke for the new RCA 19-inch, 90° rectangular color picture tube has been designed for optimum convergence and beam-to-phosphor-dot register by analyzing the electromagnetic field flux distribution to obtain the proper astigmatism, coma, and location of deflection centers. A precise \"fine tuning\" of the flux distribution, without altering the shape of the coils, is obtained by a new method using series-connected strands in parts of the winding. Tight controls on the arbors and winding process and a 100% convergence check, as well as two mechanical adjustments to control the lateral position of the blue beam relative to the red and green, insure a converged color-pure picture equivalent or superior to anything previously on the market."
"A new Fairchild silicon planar transistor has been designed specifically to satisfy the requirements of both black and white and color TV video i-f output stages. Characterization of the transistor is discussed with particular emphasis on the parameters important to this application. The use of Y parameters and a study of gain and stability requirements result in a device characterization which directly relates the device parameters to circuit performance. Specific designs of i-f output stages are considered. Other possible applications of this new device are discussed briefly."
"This paper presents the circuits and system aspects associated with the design of an all-transistor color television set using the Chromatron color tube. It is intended to be read with a previous paper describing the color-processing circuitry, and the two papers together form a complete description of the set design. This paper, in particcular, is concerned with the problems associated with the generation and regulation of high voltage, and with obtaining proper color video response using semiconductors. Other aspects of the design are presented for the sake of describing a complete schematic."
"The diffused-gate field-effect transistor has improved non-linearity characteristics over the conventional (bipolar) transistor and the vacuum-tube as well. This improvement is contributed to the nearly square-law transfer characteristic. Some comparative non-linearity performance figures, related to signal handling problems, (cross-modulation and inter-modulation distortions) are given. The improvements clearly demonstrate the desireability of obtaining good gain-stability and noise performance with FETs for use at very high frequencies. A \"cascode\" configuration, using two FET's are interconnected to reduce the reverse feed-back capacitance inherent in these devices. Improved gain-stability relationship is thus achieved at frequencies to 250 megacycles. The FET cascode development is detailed relating the improved performance obtainable through this circuit configuration. A 200 megacycle circuit is designed using an FET cascode and evaluated for gain-stability, noise figure and cross-modulation performance."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Industrial and government laboratories require much engineering research for which Ph.D. level training in engineering is fully appropriate, but many engineers trained at that level do not want to do engineering. This mismatch between employee and employer is generated on campus. Following World War II, engineering curricula have been revised to provide heavy emphasis in science, for example, physics. Many physicists have been recruited to engineering faculties. The means to better engineering has been mistaken for the end goal with the result that students have been motivated toward physics. Since a clearer definition or objective for the doctoral engineer might reduce the problem, descriptions are given to distinguish the character of the work done by physicists and engineers trained at the doctoral level. The crucial difference is in motivation; the physicist wants to learn more, the engineer seeks a result. A plea is made to train and motivate engineering students toward engineering research."
"The closed-form expression for the inverse Laplace transform of a rational fraction f(t)= E (-) p [ F(p)(p-pk) mept] all k (Mn-i1)! dpmlipp is derived simply, without using complex function theory, by application of Leibnitz's theorem for repeated differentiation."
"Particularly in undergraduate courses in Control Systems, students are introduced to the three main design criteria, Root Locus, Frequency Response, and Transient Response. These methods are normally applied to analysis rather than synthesis or design due to this type of problem having an easier solution and the lack of student time to attempt the latter type of problem. With this problem in mind a number of computer programs were written to remove the main labor of computation involved in these trial-and-error methods of design. Furthermore, graphical output was provided since this gives the student a better picture of what is happening than does a list of figures. Though the programs were written for an IBM 1620, the flow diagrams are applicable to any similar computer having a FORTRAN processor. The graphical plots were programmed for a 407 off-line printer since a plotter was not available."
"This paper is concerned with the conversion of any information transducer, such as a Flexowriter or an automatic slide projector, into a teaching machine for the presentation of intrinsically programmed material. A design is developed in block form that will serve to accomplish the desired conversion. A working model is detailed, the shortcomings of which are noted. A comparison is made with a conventional intrinsic teaching machine."
"The concept of poles and zeros of network functions is taught in many introductory circuit courses, but the methods of presentation vary widely. Among them, the introduction of the network function by way of the differential equation written in operational form offers some pedagogical advantages that justify its use in spite of its lack of mathematical rigor. This method also helps to realize that poles and zeros can actually coincide with each other. This is illustrated by an example in which the cancellation of factors in the numerator and denominator of the network function would lead to an error if arbitrary initial conditions are to be satisfied."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The challenge posed by the need for change in engineering education, in a changing technical world, is being answered by the largest of our engineering fields with programs which reflect a unanimity of purpose rarely encountered in educational circles and realistic appreciation of the factors bearing on this need. A number of underlying factors have enabled electrical engineering to choose a direction, and to unify its efforts in that one direction, at a time when other engineering areas seem to lack such unity. The philosophies and goals upon which this unified effort has been based are reflected in the programs which have been initiated and which electrical engineering believes will result in the realization of its objective of preparing the graduates to be electrical applied scientists as well as electrical engineers. If each field of engineering education can develop similar goals and philosophies, adapted to suit its individual needs, we can save engineering from becoming just another vocation. Indeed, if we agree that we are educating in continued learning in learning to learn and to keep on learning throughout life, we can take over the leadership which engineering education should long ago have assumed."
"The rapid growth of computer sciences is presenting electrical engineering with a serious problem. Should electrical engineering departments adapt their curricula to meet the special needs of computer engineers and scientists or should they leave the field to computer science departments? An argument is made in favor of establishing special programs in computer sciences within electrical engineering, and a new curriculum in electrical engineering at Berkeley, which includes such a program, is outlined."
"Out of the needs of man brought about by automation, the population explosion, the expansion of human expectations, continued peace in the world, and scientific discovery are derived the influences on engineering practice and electrical engineering education for the next decade. Scientific discovery and the provision of quantitative models for environmental systems will have a profound effect on the profession. In engineering education, research in pedagogy, especially in terms of the expanded use of audio-visual methods and computer-aided instruction, will alter the teaching of engineering as it is known today."
"The development of a procedure for constructively reviewing sound-motion pictures for supplementing engineering instruction is described, and the reviews of sixty-five different instructional films are summarized. The films were reviewed during 1961 to 1963 at the University of Illinois at Urbana, for the purpose of determining their technical correctness, quality, and instructional value."
"A series of experiments is described which demonstrates the dynamical properties of electromechanical systems constrained to constant flux. The frozen field and diamagnetic behavior of a single coil are first demonstrated. Then, four deformable coils are connected together to make a lumped parameter Alfven wave. This model clarifies the basic electromechanical nature of these waves. The constant flux constraint is produced by a feedback system."
"A new approach to the design of group teaching machines of the branching type is presented. The approach may be described as follows: A lecture is divided into several topics, each of which ends with a quiz. Through reviews which always end with a quiz, it is insured that a student has understood the current topic before he proceeds to the next one. When a simple restriction on review durations is imposed, it is possible to combine relatively few sections of a program in a relatively large number of ways. Each student's answers to the quizzes deternine the particular, uninterrupted sequence of topics and reviews that he is exposed to. A machine utilizing this approach can teach an unlimited number of students simultaneously, at a reasonably low machine cost per student."
"An approach to quantum theory tailored for those students whose backgrounds include relative strength in classical electromagnetic field theory but less in classical mechanics is described. Rather than building quantum theory by following the historical steps, as is often done, the technique is to approach the subject directly from a background knowledge of electromagnetic field theory. The approach uses the postulates that the Maxwell equations are always valid for point charges, that a form of steady-state cosmology is correct, and that the superposition principle is applicable to statistical processes. The model permits a direct transition from electromagnetic field theory to quantum theory. It is self-consistent and based upon currently acceptable physical postulates. It meets the epistemological objections against the orthodox interpretation that Einstein raised and that have never been adequately answered. It does not fall into the class of proposed interpretations that Wigner showed to be inconsistent with the wave theory."
"Experimentation and observation, mathematical correlation of observable data, engineering design, and physical theory, are today interwoven in many ways in modern engineering education. Particularly, modern engineering curriculum encourages a thorough investiagation into the fundamentals of physical theory. For a successful inquiry into the intricacies of classical and modem physical theory, the engineering student must develop an affinity for the correct attitudes, techniques, and scientific language used by the theorists. In its broad, deep, and diverse inquiry, physical theory uses methods and techniques which often run contrary to common sense. In this paper we have attempted to bring about some of the most fundamental attitudes in modem physical theory in its language and in the use of analogies."
"The problem of finding the resulting electrostatic potential outside a conducting sphere when the sphere is introduced into a known field is usually attacked by placing suitable image charges and dipoles at specially chosen points within the sphere. Thus, for example, to determine the field due to a point charge e outside an earthed conducting sphere, the standard procedure is to place a point charge é at the corresponding inverse point and to determine é by making the surface potential of the sphere zero. To the student, this method seems very indirect and not very obvious, and it has the additional disadvantage of depending on special geometrical properties of inverse points in a sphere."
"This paper attempts to extend Levy's method of the time domain. If the impulse response of a system is given and its transfer function is desired, we use gate functions to convert the transient response and then apply Levy's technique. The high accuracy of the results of the new approach is demonstrated by two examples. A detailed digital computer flow graph is appended."
"A competitive project in preparing an engineering technical proposal will provide a challenge to students to strengthen their grasp of basic principles and to increase the depth and particularity of application. The proposal project enlists student enthusiasm and provides practical professional experience in conceiving, detailing, publishing, and defending an engineering scheme for a novel equipment. A plan is presented in this paper for conducting such a project."
"The 1963 to 1964 layoffs by defense companies affected 30 000 engineers and scientists. A study conducted in the San Francisco Bay Area shows that laid off engineers had not kept in touch with educational institutions; they were willing to move to a different geographical location; and even willing to be retrained \" in anything\" that could find them a job. Furthermore, these engineers had applied for jobs to 44 companies on the average and were even willing to accept large cuts in their salaries. Could these layoffs have been avoided? Can they be avoided in the future? Diversification of highly defense-oriented firms into commercial products is a must. Liberalization of layoff procedures, in terms of longer advance notice (six months to one year) of pending loss of job, and generous severance pay, is the next step. The present system of forecasting demands for engineers and scientists needs improvements. The idea of 40 hours of work per week needs to be replaced with other concepts such as 32 hours of work and 8 hours of education per week. Extensive research projects to study problems such as transferrability of skills of defense engineers to civilian economy, the mobility patterns of engineers and scientists, etc., need to be sponsored."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper briefly describes a three credit-hour undergraduate senior-level course, Creative Problem Solving, which has been taught for four years in the Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Florida. Particular emphasis is placed on the techniques found successful for teaching a course in engineering creativity, since knowledge of such techniques has constituted a deterrent to many desiring to teach such a course. The purposes and typical examples of classroom and outside activities are presented. The activities deliberately contain strong student participation both individually and in small groups. The course described seeks to impart to students a workable approach to the technique of solving complex engineering problems. It simultaneously orients and develops the students' attitudes toward recognition of the role played by creativity in actual engineering problem solving. Though the present course is oriented toward electrical engineers, it is believed that the essential methodology used could, with some modifications, be adapted to other undergraduate engineering disciplines. An attempt is made to appraise the effectiveness of the overall course. Some of the unsolved teaching problems are also exposed."
"This paper intends to cast new light on some problems that hamper beginners when studying saturable reactor performance. It is not easy to explain to students why the mean value of the current must be zero for a nonlinear circuit having a characteristic resembling that of a rectifier. In addition, it is hard to grasp at initial stages how direct current can be \"transformed\" from the control to the power circuit. These problems and many others are easily explainable taking into account the fact that in steady state the mean value of the voltage across the coil of a saturable reactor must be zero."
"The notion of a tensor is developed in terms presumed familiar to the reader; tensors are shown to be a natural outgrowth and extension of vectors and matrices. The paper begins with an elementary discussion of affine vector spaces in a way which presupposes no prior contact with linear algebra on the part of the reader. The notions of the contravariant and covariant components of a vector are introduced early and the vector is characterized as a tensor of rank one so that the reader may readily generalize the results to tensors of higher ranks. Roughly, the discussion is divided into two major headings, Tensor Algebra and Tensor Analysis; a brief introduction to differential geometry (where tensor analysis achieves its greatest power and beauty) is included under the latter heading."
"Engineers are becoming more aware of the usefulness of convolution in solving engineering problems. The methods used to explain and motivate convolution in the past are not adequate to instill in the student the value of convolution. This paper poses the problems associated with the present teaching methods and suggests other approaches and examples which can be used to accomplish the desired goal."
"In this paper, the classical dynamics methods of Hamilton and Lagrange are used to give a systematic treatment of connected electromechanical systems."
"Using the properties of the redundant admittance matrix described by Shekel, it is possible to develop a general network representation for an active three-terminal device. In the course of the analysis, the unilateral admittance is developed. This element, which represents part of the active nature of a three-terminal device, may be treated as a passive element when writing circuit equations. The general representation is identical for both vacuum tubes and transistors."
"The mathematical description of the phase response of a single real pole or zero on a logarithmic frequency basis is shown not to be \"the familiar arctangent curve,\" but of the form y=arctan ϵx or, by shift of ordinate, Y=arctan tanh x/2. The difference between the arctangent and these functions on a normalized basis is found to be in excess of 15 percent. The best straight-line approximation for phase shift is determined as intersecting the 0° and 90° values at 0.0970 and 10.315 times the corner frequency, so that the often used \"one-tenth and ten-times\" straight-line approximation is confirmed as being extremely good for practical purposes."
"Smith chart conversion of complex numbers from rectangular form to polar form, and vice versa, often involves the construction of one or more constant magnitude circular arcs. If the magnitude is being sought, it is frequently necessary to resort to graphical interpolation between the arcs. In any event, should the magnitude, given or desired, be between approximately one-fourth and four, the centers of the constant magnitude arcs inconveniently lie off the conventional Smith chart. This paper presents geometric methods with brief proofs for keeping all magnitude constructions on the commercial chart and for increasing the accuracy of results by referring interpolations to the accurately printed scalings on the horizontal axis."
"During the past few years many of the recent developments in the semiconductor devices field have found their way to the classroom through the collaboration of a handful of well-written books and tutorial papers. However, the electrical engineering student at junior and senior level is usually confused when exposed to subjects where voltage drops in semiconductor structures are involved. Two years ago, the author and collaborators wrote a note concerning potentials in semiconductor structures with added carriers. The approach and language used in that tutorial presentation aroused interest among colleagues in the teaching profession. The same approach and language are used in this paper to discuss potential drops in Metal-Dielectric-Semiconductor capacitors. These devices have excited considerable interest recently and may well be incorporated as subject material in an undergraduate curriculum in electrical engineering."
"The Onsager theorem pertains to symmetries inherent in two-dimensional current flow, through either a conducting or a semiconducting medium in the presence of an externally applied magnetic field oriented perpendicular to the current-carrying plane. Although the theorem can be derived on a statistical basis, as done originally by Onsager, in many courses dealing with thermoelectricity, it is necessary to state the theorem without proof, rather than take the time to develop the background properly. Therefore, it is of considerable pedagogical interest to have a derivation of the theorem based upon thermodynamics only. To that end, the following discussion has been found useful."
"\"Miartes\" is a code name for a Missile Autopilot Research and Teaching Simulator designed initially to satisfy the requirement for a special-purpose analog computer on which the principles of missile control and automatic control engineering could be taught simultaneously. The simulator is based on the roll autopilot suitable for the hypothetical missile \"Flying Shrew.\" A sophisticated flight envelope, extending in altitude from sea-level to 70 000 feet and in speed from Mach 1.0 to Mach 2.0, necessitates a novel approach to the computer design if rescaling is to be avoided. The sophisticated ffight envelope chosen vividly illustrates the need for some form of adaptive autopilot loop. The simulator is intended to supplement more complex specialized computers, and general-purpose analog computers in an integrated course involving several specializations. It has been found that the use of the \"Flying Shrew\" mathematical model has enabled a thorough integration between lecture room and laboratory to be achieved. Calibration of the simulator is directly in terms of missile autopilot parameters, and, since rescaling is avoided, the effective student absorption rate is at least four times greater than with older methods of teaching. The simulator is also an excellent basis for student design and research projects."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"How do scientists and engineers get their information? In the Department of Defense, according to a recent study, the technical man about half the time gets the information he needs from colleagues, personal files, or departmental files. Such \"informal\" sources of information were more widely used than \"formal\" sources like libraries and information centers. About 30 percent of the time the information is conveyed in verbal, rather than written, form. The major written medium of communication is the technical report."
"The information retrieval activities of the IEEE envisage a time when information from many sources will be distributed rapidly and selectively to the people who need it. For this purpose there are two obvious requirements: 1) the information must be accurately identified, and 2) the needs of recipients must be known. (IEEE Spectrum, Sept. 1965, pp. 61; IEEE Transactions on Engineering Writing and Speech, Dec. 1964, pp. 37). As a step in this direction, these Transactions cooperate in the plan whereby each article is tagged with a set of descriptors or index terms. These are selected from a dictionary or thesaurus of terms that apply to a given area of activity. The terms given on this page represent the present state of the G-EWS thesaurus. It has been developed primarily by indexing articles published during recent years and by editing the terms in attempts to make them more specific, more complete, and less ambiguous. This thesaurus will be refined as it is improved and as the subject matter and interests of G-EWS change. As a first attempt to index an article, however, terms should be drawn only from this thesaurus. Whenever it is found inadequate, the editors would appreciate suggestions for revisions. Abstracts."
"This article examines three major causes of bad scientific and engineering writing: 1) lack of incentive, 2) lack of interest, and 3) faulty or artificial style. Suggested remedies for each are considered, and a \"model\" for a paper or report is proposed. Discussion includes brief treatments of the contents of each part of the model, the interrelationships between parts, use of illustrations, and importance of the \"communications situation\" to style and language level."
"The publication of technical papers is a means for achieving several desirable ends: promotion of a product line or a new device, recognition for the engineer-author, promotion of a company's image, introduction of new information and know-how into the technology to keep it healthy. Companies should go further than just tolerating the writing of papers; they should give active support and subsidization. This support can best be implemented by a chartered organization with management backing and funding. Such organizations should be staffed with engineering editors-or information specialists-who will already have been working with engineers on reports and proposals and who will have across-the-board familiarity with the various engineering specialities in a given company. The support group can help create new authors as well as helping all authors in the many complex steps toward appearing in print. This paper elaborates on the aforementioned ideas, and describes how one papers' support group has successfully helped many engineers into print."
"This paper reviews the development, coordination, and standardization of various types of symbols by professional societies and by national and international organizations. It describes the responsibilities and the relationships of the various standards groups and discusses in detail the activities of the IEEE Symbols Coordinating Committee. Some current standards dealing with symbols are described and a recommended procedure for generating new symbols is given. An Appendix is included which provides a comprehensive, up-to-date list of new and existing Standards and Recommendations covering symbols for electricity and electronics."
"The first of these two bibliographies is a selected list of books in print in the field of technical writing. The second bibliography includes articles on the various methods of setting type using photographic film."
"This paper describes the salient features of a Rome Air Development Center exploratory research effort aimed at developing new computer programs which can accomplish certain key processing functions on natural language text. The concept of an ultimate system includes a number of capabilities. First are those operations dealing with input and file search actions. Second are those operations that organize the output from the data handling system. In short, the system goal is to \"cut out,\" automatically, the useful parts of each incoming document and then to \"paste together\" that cross section of document parts that forms the most relevant response to a particular file query. In addition to a description of the experimental computer programs developed thus far, two pilot studies are discussed. The first describes a test of the degree to which people could reconstitute the source documents from the fragments of three documents which were virtually identical in subject matter. The second pertains to a pilot test of some of the experimental computer programs already developed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The mathematical problem consists of determining the spread of the Fourier transform of function when the function is modified by a multiplicative factor exp jα(t), where α is a stationary random process. Let F(ω) be the Fourier transform of f(t) and Fm(ω) be the transform of f(t) exp jα(t). For example, f may be the illumination function of a linear antenna and α accounts for imperfect phasing of the antenna. The major results consist of simple formulas for the rms tilting (or shifting) of the pattern |Fm|2 and the rms radius of gyration (or beamwidth) of the pattern. These positional errors and resolution degradations are formulated in terms of the pattern in the absence of phase errors and the power density spectrum of α'. The problem of calculating the best obtainable resolution, i.e., minimizing the mean-square resolution over all possible illumination functions, requires numerical solution; however, it is shown that it is always possible to obtain a rms resolution better than the smaller of rms α' and √rms α'. The actual numerical solution is compared to this simple approximation for the case of sinusoidal phase errors. The general results have a broad scope of applications, and here the spreading of the ambiguity function in time and frequency in the presence of time phase errors and dispersion (frequency phase errors) is described with particular attention to linear FM pulses. Finally, some observations are made about quadratic phase errors, signal-to-noise performance, and mean-square point-target response."
"Recorded CW radar echoes from a number of aircraft have been analyzed to determine the characteristics of the amplitude fluctuations and the extent to which these vary among different aircraft. The statistics of the echoes from four targets (two jets and two piston aircraft) were found to exhibit marked similarities; typically, the echo power was exponentially distributed, with a correlation time on the order of 0.05 s. Families of probability-distribution functions were derived which show how the amplitude statistics are affected by integration."
"Analytic approximations are derived to describe the effect of band-pass limiting on the detectability of partially time-coincident pulse compression signals. These are applied to the practical radar case of a fixed threshold decision criterion, which effectively becomes an equivalent variable threshold in any region in which a strong signal controls the limiter action. The suppression and gain control effects of the strong signal cause the detection probability of a weaker signal to deteriorate rapidly as a function of the percentage overlap. A calibrated radar simulator is described. The test equipment operated in either a pulsed CW or a linear FM pulse compression mode. Detection probability curves are presented for different false alarm probabilities in each mode, with and without limiting. Test procedures are described that obtain data in the following areas: 1) The effect of partially time-coincident strong signals on the probability of detection (Pd) of a weaker signal in the pulse compression mode, and 2) The effect of the strong signal on the probability of false alarm (Pfa) in the strong-signal region. The data obtained are in agreement with the analysis, illustrating the degradation of the weaker signal Pd as the overlap factor increased."
"An optimum frequency modulation for estimating the range, range rate, and range acceleration of a moving target is derived. The criterion of optimality is based on the estimate variances which are evaluated under the following assumptions: 1) additive white Gaussian observation noise, 2) high signal-to-noise ratio, 3) maximum-likelihood processing (matched filters), 4) RF phase used only for the range rate and range acceleration, and 5) carrier frequency much larger than the signal bandwidth. The choice of frequency modulation is constrained by the bandwidth of the transmitted signal. A large time-bandwidth product is assumed. The optimum frequency modulation consists of three appropriately placed frequency jumps between the limits imposed by the bandwidth constraint. This optimum modulation is compared with a third degree, power law modulation. The derivation of the optimum, originally done using Pontryagin's Maximum Principle, leads to the following very simple design principle; the optimum modulation is orthogonal to the target's motion."
"Some radar systems employing a linear FM pulse require FM linearity not easily obtainable from present generation methods. A technique is developed whereby average linearities of better than 0.1 per cent may be realized by active generation methods. Two methods of implementation are described that synthesize the waveform by generating a staircase-type stepped FM waveform and \"filling in\" the steps with a suitable sawtooth FM signal. Coherence, required number of steps, Doppler, and random phase errors are considered."
"Measurements of clutter with the TRADEX radar at UHF and L band are described. Clutter is shown to be due to sea return and returns from clouds. Sea clutter predominates at ranges less than 13 nmi, values of σ0 of -100 dB being typical at both frequencies. Coherent scattering from clouds is postulated, and the observed frequency independence of the cloud retums is offered as supporting evidence. Values of cloud cross section per unit volume are given. Below 15,000 ft altitude, values of -140 dB (reference m-1) are typical at both frequencies. Clutter spectra are presented."
"This paper considers the detection and estimation of a signal field in the presence of a noise field. The wave field, which is a continuous space-time function, is converted into a discrete set of time functions by an array of transducer elements which convert the physical field quantities into other quantities appropriate for processing. The resulting set of time functions makes up a vector random process. A generalization of the one-dimensional Karhunen-Loeve expansion applied to the vector random process yields a series representation with uncorrelated coefficients. The effects of complex element weighting and of internal noise are considered in describing the noise and signal vector processes. If the noise field is Gaussian, the conditional probability density functions of the vector processes, under the hypotheses of noise alone and of signal pulse noise, are straightforwardly written, leading directly to the likelihood ratio for a completely known signal. The operation to obtain a test statistic based upon the likelihood ratio is interpreted as a set of filtering operations, time-varying in the general case where the noise field is not wide-sense stationary. When the noise field is wide-sense stationary, the field may be described by a spectral density matrix whose elements are the cross-spectral densities of the total noise at the transducers taken in pairs. The operation to obtain the test statistic is now interpreted as a set of filtering operations described by a filtering matrix."
"Two modifications of the conventional radar theory of matched filters and ambiguity functions are discussed. The first modification is to make the theory valid for high-velocity targets and wide-band signals, and the second is to include the effects of acceleration. The ability of a radar to measure target acceleration has previously been discussed in terms of measurement accuracy for isolated targets. This paper is concerned with the form of data processing necessary for the measurement and with the effects of acceleration on the clutter problem."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Although the command and control of military forces is as old as conflict itself, the means through which we exercise the function is undergoing change. This change is dictated by several salient characteristics of the world in which we live: the threat of nuclear weapons; the vulnerability of military command; the vulnerability of the nation; the global battlefield; the pace of military operations; and the advances in technology. Command and control objectives are dictated by several factors. One is the expected nature and extent of an electronic system's future use; another is national policy. This paper outlines the consequential relation between national policy and military decision making, and the direction that the USAF takes in designing the flexible, selective, deliberate and protected systems which facilitate the decision making process. It will also cover the design of military electronic systems, current electronic system efforts and the technology which supports the efforts."
"A command and control system is intended to provide a responsible authority the means to employ his weapons and forces to achieve certain objectives for an assigned mission. The overall organization and even the details of the information system design are intimately interwoven with the mission, the objectives to be achieved in pursuance of the mission, the degree of formalization of the requirements of the objectives, and probably to a large extent the image (or context) the system designers have of the system in its operational environment. In this discussion we have attempted to show that the military doctrine of centralized command and decentralized execution is, to a large extent, becoming more amenable to mechanization, viz., by the notion of the distributed data processor, which is for all practical purposes an interconnected set of computers that can share a common problem load. This kind of system configuration gives an added degree of freedom to the information system design but has not necessarily simplified the problems associated with command and control. It adds to the designer's repertoire another configuration for a system that could be advantageous under certain circumstances. It is also shown that the process of formalization of command and control systems can be literally as important as the resulting product. The necessity to define functions, tasks, objectives, and their interrelationships can disclose potential advantages or hazards in systems that might otherwise remain undetected."
"With the rapid development of the \"space age,\" many applications of orbiting satellites are being implemented primarily for scientific purposes. Among the first practical applications, with broad military and commercial implications, is communicationsvia an active satellite repeater. A military research and development program for such communications capability is underway to satisfy the ever-present need for reliable military communications. This program is broadly reviewed with primary emphasis on the development of the surface (as opposed to space) environment. The paper outlines briefly the military requirements for satellite communications and the advantages to be accrued through its employment. The current military active satellite communication program is presented, including support of NASA's SYNCOM program and development of the Defense Communications Satellite System. Areas of research and development for the improvement of initial capability are described, including communication techniques, system approaches, subsystem design and component development."
"Three phases of active attitude control of an orbiting satellite are examined: the despinning mode, the reorientation mode, and the control mode. Each of these modes is considered in the light of requirements for long-life mission, where the ratio of control torque to satellite inertia must be minimized. Investigations of the minimum amount of information necessary for a gravitationally stabilized satellite are also included. It is shown that yaw information may be dispensed with in many cases. The paper also includes a discussion of a novel method of providing controlled damping of a gravitationally stabilized satellite by means of internal moving parts and frictional dissipation involving feedback. Some numerical results are given."
"Theoretical and computer investigations into type N-integral tracking configurations for space tracking radar systems have established significant advantages in the use of high-order tracking loop types. This paper presents the results of a theoretical and computer investigation that focuses attention on type N-integral tracking configurations in space-tracking radar systems. The type N-tracking configuration, which uses N-pure integrations in the tracking loop, results in feedback types of high order. The paper illustrates how this class of tracking systems minimizes tracking errors while overcoming the effects of multiple frictional nonlinearities and structural resonances of the radar. In addition, the results of the theoretical investigation are applied to the design of a practical satellite tracking radar system. The results of the system's computer simulation agreed very well with the theoretical predictions and conclude the presentation of the paper."
"The purpose of this paper is to outline a model which can be used to predict the performance of HF skywave radio circuits in a nuclear environment. Despite a wealth of literature on the subject of signal absorption and attenuation, little has been discussed to date about prediction of performance levels in such an environment. The proposed prediction model for system performance is an empirical model that reflects observations of circuit degradation and, where applicable, degradation effects as predicted by theory. The effects of HF system parameter degradation are examined in terms of a natural, localized, ionospheric disturbance that is similar to that produced by a nuclear burst. While the mechanisms that produce natural and nuclear ionospheric disturbances are somewhat different, the end effects on the propagation parameters can be assumed to be the same in magnitude. The degradation parameters are defined within the context of statistical formats. Using these formats, the performance of HF radio circuits in an area of interest are predicted in terms of circuit reliability, expected degradation time, and performance levels."
"The estimators of incoming traffic rate, processing rate, and line utilization are defined, and their statistical properties are analyzed. Attention is directed to the problem of estimating peak traffic rates from communications systems data. The central tendency and variance of the estimators are examined, and the improvement gained by extending the period of testing, or increasing the sample size, is examined. Relationships between duration of test and precision of estimate are developed."
"Tactical communications systems are characterized by severe limitations on size, weight, and setup time, which are dictated by the mobility requirements of the tactical environment. Conventional troposcatter systems, which almost universally use frequency modulation and space diversity, are inherently at a disadvantage in such an environment. By combiing pulse modulation with frequency diversity, a competely new system has been evolved, one which is more nearly optimum for use in tactical situations. This system achieves quadruple diversity over paths of 100 miles or more while requiring only a single antenna, transmitter power amplifier, and receiver \"front-end\" at either end of the path. In addition, the multiple-frequency feature which makes possible frequency diversity is used to provide multiplexing of 24 voice channels plus the usual order-wire facility."
"Two problems which arise in the transmission of digital data are message framing and error control. A technique has been developed whereby polynomial coding can be used simultaneously for both error detection and message framing. With this technique, encoded data blocks can be transmitted asynchronously without incorporating any special signals or bit patterns for \"start-of-message\" and \"end-of-message\" indications. Erroneously received blocks are automatically deleted from the accepted data stream. The standard systems use a special signal for a start-of-message (SOM) indication at the beginning of each block of data, and independently create and detect a specified format (usually based on parity check sums) to determine when errors have occurred in transmission of the data. In order to achieve high reliability it is necessary to use sophisticated techniques and to devote a large number of transmitted digits to each of these functions. By considering these two problems together a technique which provides a solution to both was found. This technique uses fewer bits than would be required by many conventional approaches to framing to get the same reliability. The error-detection capability which is included is so strong that the mean time between undetected errors is usually dependent on equipment reliability rather than on channel error statistics."
"Information systems serve in a variety of ways in military environments but have the common objectives of supporting decision processes. Systems engineers have had difficulty in developing automated systems for this purpose because of the amount of lead time required to analyze a problem situation, to procure hardware and to design and prepare computer programs, and because the problems and the problem situation are highly dynamic. Extrapolating requirements for some time in the future from current problems and methods of operation have tended to result in inadequate or incomplete systems designs when systems are developed and tested against the actual requirements in an operational environment. A variety of approaches to system development have been employed. These have ranged from the \"job shop\" approach at one extreme to the \"turn-key\" approach at the other. The job shop approach is typified by many independent, special-purpose programs, each written to perform a particular job with its own data base. The programs are executed under job controls established by machine operators. New capabilities are developed and operated in the same way. This approach is usually responsive to individual staff elements since each program is designed for the specific purpose of the particular group which will have considerable input to the design, a good knowledge of the logic employed, and confidence in the products obtained from it. It has growth potential limited only by total machine capacity. Operational capability is provided and can be evaluated with relatively short lead time."
"Atmospheric sounding systems have become one of the most important meteorological tools to both the civilian and military population. The Meteorological Data Sounding System (MDSS), described in the manuscript, is the newest type and provides accuracies, capabilities, and features not available in any of the atmospheric sounding systems currently in use. The MDSS is being designed for the Army in support of artillery fire. The purpose of the MDSS system is to provide the capability to artillery sections for obtaining a first round hit, even in areas obscured from observers, by the use of the most reliable, fresh, and comprehensive meteorological data. These data are obtained through the unique technique of using an S-band frequency for meteorological and angular data acquisition and an X-band frequency for ranging on an airborne target. The target is part of the radiosonde-flight train. All the meteorological and geometric data are fed to a radiosonde data processor which converts all the parameters into a common, machine language form for computer processing. In addition to the system's excellent mobility and quick reaction capabilities, it is capable of obtaining sounding data and processing it at an extremely high rate. The final output data is produced in the form of seven types of meteorological messages which are used for decision making by field commanders and missile test ranges."
"The role of the Government Laboratory in the Program Definition Phase (PDP) environment is discussed. Emphasis is placed on the dual task of defining the technical boundaries of the problem, and evaluating the PDP reports to select the most acceptable engineering approach. The problem of accomplishing a detailed technical evaluation of several proposed approaches in a short time frame is examined, with the result that a requirement for a better \"yardstick\" is established. Design decisions leading to the final specification of such a yardstick-the Tactical Avionics System Simulator (TASS)-and a summary of its anticipated capabilities are presented."
"Maintaining reliable guidance links between inflight missiles and ground-based radar or radio guidance equipment is a problem becoming more difficult with advanced system concepts and electromagnetic environment complexity. A major difficulty encountered is signal loss caused by the ionization characteristics of the rocket motor exhaust (plasma), particularly for advanced propellants. This article summarizes briefly the present state-of-the-art in millimeter technology, particularly as it may relate to exhaust plume studies, and describes initial efforts expended in the investigation of millimeter wave techniques with application to plume diagnostics."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A video sweep integrator is a device for adding successive radar returns of transmitted pulses. One type of sweep integrator uses an ultrasonic delay line for storage, requiring that the delay line transmission be in the form of a modulated carrier. Addition is obtained by means of a closed regenerative loop that operates for a finite time to provide uniformly weighted addition or operates continuously with exponentially decaying memory. The former type of operation is called iteration to distinguish it from the continuous operation called integration. This paper treats the case of phase modulation imposed upon the carrier. Delay line secondary, or spurious, responses result from multipath propagation through the delay line. The cumulative effect of these secondaries after circulation in the sweep integrator or iterator may set a severe limitation on dynamic range. This paper treats two cases of secondary buildup: 1) the coherent buildup case in which relative buildup of secondaries is much greater than that of the signal, and 2) noncoherent buildup in which the built-up secondary effect is less than in the coherent case. It is suggested that it is possible to assure noncoherent secondary buildup by changing the carrier frequency in an irregular manner upon each circulation around the regenerative loop."
"The detection of underwater signals is frequently accomplished by highly directional hydrophone arrays. This paper reviews some of the well-known optimum techniques that are used in processing signals of this type, and compares them to simpler suboptimum methods. It appears that the main effect of optimum detectors is to eliminate the low frequencies where there is substantial correlation between the noise components received by adjacent hydrophones. This effect is easily approximated by simple suboptimum receivers. The question of the detection of modulated noise signals is also considered, but it is concluded that if the background noise level is known precisely, knowledge of the modulation waveshape does not contribute very much to detectability."
"The output signals from the hydrophones in a directional sonar array are frequently clipped before being processed further. The effect of this is analyzed in this paper by comparing the figures of merit of likelihood-ratio detectors operating on clipped and unclipped data. It is found that if the number of hydrophones is large, the figure of merit is reduced by a factor of about 2/π from the optimum value."
"In this paper we discuss the problem of designing optimum signals and receivers for an active sonar system operating in an environment in which the principal cause of interference is reverberation. We have considered only the problem of target detection (as opposed to the problem of range or Doppler estimation)."
"The signal ambiguity function is derived and analyzed for radar (sonar) systems employing array antennas. It is shown that angle resolution is essentially independent of range-Doppler resolution in the main antenna beam and that the antenna directivity function can have a strong effect on waveform design. It is also shown that angle ambiguity is appreciably influenced by signal bandwidth; in particular, signal bandwidth can be traded for a reduction in angle ambiguity in an array whose element spacing is greater than one-half wavelength."
"A statistical analysis is made of a superlimited phased array when a sinusoid and Gaussian noise are independently introduced into the element-channel antenna elements. A mathematical expression is derived for the probability-density function of the beam-channel envelope in tenns of element-channel signal-to-noise power ratio and angular position of target from main beam. This density function is used to study the envelope detection capabilities of a superlimited phased-array system. A comparison study of the detection capabilities of the superlimited phased array and a linear system points out the \"sidelobe suppression effect\" and the \"noise quieting effect\" exhibited by the nonlinear system. Experimental results obtained with a 60-element array antenna system with noninear signal processing are reported and compared with theory."
"A basic problem in magnetic recording is the preservation of accurate time relationships between reproduced bits of information. If information is recorded at a given rate, the reproduced signal rate will tend to deviate from this rate. Servo systems for controlling the mechanisms of the machine can maintain the reproduced signal rate equal to the recorded signal rate, averaged over a period of a few milliseconds. Mechanical servos cannot, however, prevent short-term deviations in reproduced signal rate, because of their relatively slow response. Electronically variable delay lines (EVDLs) have been developed which, because of their relatively fast response, can further reduce timing errors. This paper presents a mathematical analysis of the problem and of the requirements imposed on the EVDLs. Two devices for the accomplishment of electronically variable delay are then described, one for high-frequency signals, and one for low-frequency signals. Experimental results obtained by using these two delay lines are also presented."
"The fundamental limits to radar performance in search and tracking can be expressed on three charts, in terms of products involving transmitted power, antenna gain, and effective aperture area. Locations of past and present radar systems on these charts disclose evolutionary trends in system design and indicate regions of practical and economic balance between transmitter and antenna complexity, in terms of ratios of power to gain and aperture. The basis of choice for operating frequency is clarified for different applications of radar, such as air surveillance, precision tracking, weapon control, and combinations of these tasks. It is suggested that these historical trends, derived from a large sample of successful radar systems, will furnish a better guide to economic optimization than will empirical cost equations. They are also helpful in comparing diverse approaches to radar system design, and in estimating the dependence of proposed systems upon new component and technique developments. The examples used in this paper are drawn primarily from ground-based radar systems, and serve to clarify the relationships between conventional and phased-array radar systems used for aircraft and missile detection, tracking, and weapon control."
"The design of antenna pattern and transmitted signal for a coherent-side-looking (range-azimuth) synthetic antenna radar is studied. The general design criterion is to minimize all spurious responses in the ambiguity function under the restraints of finite antenna aperture and signal bandwidth. The problem is completely solved for any set of consistent constraints. The interplay between aperture size, range and azimuth resolution, and spurious response level for the optimum design is exhibited, and antenna aperture illuminations, signal amplitude and phase modulation, and pulse repetition frequency are specified."
"Sequential detection procedures, which may be used with phased-array radars, can provide a significant improvement in search capability as compared to uniform scanning. This paper discusses the improvement in cumulative detection probability (the probability that an approaching target is detected before it reaches a given range) which can be obtained with the two-step sequential test, first described by Finn [6]. In this test, a first pulse is transmitted in each beam position. If a threshold crossing is observed in any range cell, a second pulse of higher energy is transmitted and the returns compared with a higher threshold. A target is declared present if and only if threshold crossings are observed on both pulses in the same range cell. Curves of cumnulative detection probability vs. range are given for a nonfluctuating target and for two of the target fluctuation models considered by Swerling [7]. Results are given for three values of range resolution, and the radar parameters that optimize performance are tabulated in each case. In practical cases where the range resolution is from one to ten percent of the range, the sequential test considered here yields an energy saving of 3 to 4 dB as compared with uniform scanning."
"A discussion of the theory and applications of activated delay lines is presented. The term \"activated delay line\" is derived from the fact that the equivalent circuit of a ceramic electroacoustic receiving transducer is a capacitor in series with a voltage generator and for this reason may be inserted directly into an LC delay-line receiving array matrix. Equations are derived which give array gain as a function of the number of serially added array elements. Very large arrays are theoretically possible. Since activated delay lines are composed entirely of passive components, they are very rugged, reliable, and relatively inexpensive."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"In recognition of the giant strides taken in recent scientific developments, JTAC has brought together an up-to-the-minute, world-wide review of radio spectrum utilization. This broad treatise makes a fine reference volume for your desk or library."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Explanation of recent rocket and satellite results requires considerable modification to the theories of formation of the various subdivisions of the ionosphere which evolved from ground-based studies. It was not until quite recently that the difficult task of measuring D region (50-85 km) electron densities from rockets was consummated. Flights made during sunspot minimum in the absence of solar flare show that the average electron population of the D region is about 700 electrons cm-3. The altitude distribution obtained suggests that the principal ionizing agent for the region 70-85 km is Lyman alpha radiation. A firm conclusion requires a better knowledge based on laboratory investigation of the rate at which electrons are lost by recombination with the positive ions that are simultaneously produced. Electron density enhancements of up to two orders of magnitude (sufficient to cause radio blackouts) have been observed during special events. Rocket measurements show that (a) the sudden ionospheric disturbance, a short term radio absorption event occurring on the sunlit side of the earth, is caused by enhanced X-ray radiation emanating from the sun during a solar flare; (b) radio absorption events occurring in the auroral zone are attributable to direct and indirect (bremsstrahlung) effects of precipating energetic electrons; (c) polar cap absorption events which occur above the auroral zone can be correlated with satellite measurements of enhanced proton fluxes during certain types of solar flares. Rocket measurements are beginning to detail the day-to-night behavior of E region (85-140 kin) electron densities."
"Summary form only, as given. The MIT plasma probe, installed aboard the first IMP, has shown that the space around the earth is sharply divided into three regions. At large distances from the earth, we find a region (region 1) occupied by a plasma moving with a velocity from about 300 to 400 km/sec, in a direction nearly radial away from the sun; its thermal energy density is small compared with its kinetic energy density of bulk motion. Presumably we see in this region the \"solar wind,\" unperturbed by the presence of the earth. As we approach the earth, we pass from region 1 to region 2 where the velocity of the plasma is often below the limit of detectability and in any case much smaller than in region 1. The thermal energy density is large, corresponding to temperatures of the order of millions of degrees, but a rigorous definition of the temperature is impossible because the velocity distribution does not appear to be Maxwellian. Approaching the earth further, we meet a second boundary, separating region 2 from region 3, where the plasma probe does not detect any plasma. Both boundaries have a characteristic comet-like shape, with a blunt nose facing the sun and a long diverging tail in the opposite direction. Presumably the boundary between regions 1 and 2 represents a shock front, across which the plasma flow changes from supersonic to subsonic."
"The energetic particle populations observed in the MeV and greater range in interplanetary space are of both galactic and solar origin. The galactic cosmic rays are ever present though strongly modulated by solar activity while the solar cosmic rays are highly variable. Of particular interest in attempting to assess the radiation hazards for long missions is a more detailed knowledge of the charge and energy spectrum of the galactic component. Measurements of hydrogen, helium, and heavy nuclei down to 100 MeV/nuc have been obtained by groups at the University of Minnesota, the University of Chicago, and the Goddard Space Flight Center using balloon borne instrumentations at high altitudes. Results obtained on the IMP-1 satellite have furnished proton and helium data in the region 10 to 100 MeV. These combined data show a differential proton spectrum which has a broad maximum around 400 MeV and is steeply falling towards lower energies. The helium nuclei and protons seem to exhibit the same relative differential rigidity spectrum above 1.5 BeV. Below this rigidity the relative helium spectrum appears to be more rapidly falling than the proton spectrum. The IMP-1 proton results indicate that the galactic proton differential energy spectrum decreases by a factor of 5 going from 70 MeV to 20 MeV. Thus less than 1% of the total galactic cosmic rays appears to be contained in the low energy region below 100 MeV."
"Summary form only, as given. This paper has been published as \"Coronal Expansion and Solar Corpuscular Radiation,\" Planetary and Space Science, Vol. 12, pp. 451-461, 1964 (Pergamon Press). Significant information about the corpuscular radiation from the sun was deduced from studies of the aurora, magnetic storm phenomena, variation of intensity of galactic cosmic rays, etc. before satellite observations were available. In the '40's and '50's for example, it was established that the steady outward corpuscular flux, rather than radiation pressure, pushed the gaseous tails of comets away from the sun. From the direction of the tail and velocity of the comet, the velocity of the protons was qualitatively estimated. Direct measurements near the earth's orbit show a velocity of 300-600 km/sec and a density of 2-20 protons/cm3 . It now appears that the temperature of the sun is high enough so that an appreciable fraction of the protons escape from the gravitational field and continue travelling outward at supersonic velocities, ultimately being slowed down by collisions in interstellar space. Of great importance are the thermal conductivity of the corona and the electrical conductivity of the expanding plasma. Due to the latter condition, expansion of the solar corona pulls with it the general solar magnetic field, the magnetic lines are pulled out by the expanding plasma. Measurements of proton density, velocity and the sun's magnetic field as a function of solar activity give additional information on the source and behavior of the solar wind. (W.A.H.)"
"Summary form only, as given. This paper reviewed X-ray data that have been recently accumulated by space instruments and described a most remarkable experiment relating to X-ray emission from the Crab Nebula. This nebula is the remnant of a supernova explosion in the year 1054 AD. The question was whether the X-radiation eminated from a point source, indicating possibly an invisible neutron star, or from a more diffuse source. Detector angular resolution was entirely inadequate for such a measurement so it was decided to use the moon for a shutter. An occultation by the moon occurs only once in 9 years. The detectors were carried above the atmosphere on a rocket, providing 5 minutes to make the observation. In spite of the seemingly impossible timing requirements, further complicated by X-rays from the sun, the experiment was successful and showed that the source was about 1 light year in diameter. See \"Lunar Occultation of X-ray Emission from the Crab Nebula,\" Bowyer, Byram, Chubb and Friedman, Science, 146, p. 912, 13 Nov. 1964. (W.A.H.)"
"This paper gives estimates, for a particular radiocarbon dating system, of two possible sources of residual background occurring in coincident liquid scintillation arrangements - the natural radioactivity of the phototubes and optical feedback between them. The formr was found to contribute about 1.8 c.p.m. or 13% of the background, but there was no evidence of any significant contribution from the latter."
"The manner in which the gain of a radiation transducer comprised of a 2\" × 2\" NaI(Tl) crystal, and either a 5-inch 10-stage or 2-inch 14-stage photomultiplier tube viewing a Cs137 source, varies with ambient temperature changes over the range of 0° C to 50° C has been investigated. Gain vs temperature response curves are presented and operating temperatures which minimize gain variations are delineated. A method is given for evaluating the magnitude of gain variations encountered from the curves."
"A digital system has been built for making precise measurements of scintillator decay times. The approach used is similar to the one developed by Bollinger and Thomas. Time intervals between the start of a gamma-induced scintillation and the detection of a single light photon are measured with a time-to-height converter and stored in a pulse height analyzer. The apparatus has a time resolution of less than 2 nanoseconds, a dynamic range of greater than four decades, and is able to detect both prompt and slow decay components in plastic and liquid scintillators. For all fast scintillators studied, the decay of light intensity over the first decade is approximately exponential; however, measured decay times are shorter than those generally quoted. Results of measurements made on several commercially available scintillators will be presented, including NE 102, Pilot B, Pilot A, and MEL-150C."
"A series of copolymer of vinyl toluene containing various organometallic compounds have recently been synthesized. By taking advantage of the weak fluorescent characteristics of the organometallic compounds and the better understanding of the energy transfer and quenching process (J. Phys. Chem. 68:300 (1964)), it is possible to prepare organometallic scintillation plastics that may be useful for gamma detection. A 20% triphenyltinstyrene and vinyl toluene copolymer containing 3% PBD and 0.05% POPOP have now been evaluated at the Health and Safety Laboratory, New York Operation Office. The sample size was only 1 ⅝\" by 1\" thick cylinder. In general, the pulse height is 45-50% of that observed from anthracene, and the cross section is still less than that observed for sodium iodide. However, the photopeaks are definitely resolvable when evaluated for Mercury-203, Cadmium-109, and Cesium-137. In the last case, the energy resolution for 662 MeV photons lies between 16-19%."
"It has been found to be possible to operate the continuous channel electron multiplier, a recently developed type of windowless electron multiplier, in a gain saturated mode such than single charged particles entering the input mouth of the channel will initiate output pulses whose amplitude and shape are both uniform and independent of the character of the excitation radiation. By suitable design of the channel this saturated pulse can be made stable against changes in such operating conditions as ambient pressure and applied voltage. Some degradation in the pulse height distribution is noted at very high count rates but operation for short periods at count rates of at least 105 per second is possible. When operated in this mode the efficiency of the channel for the detection of electrons over the energy range 250 eV to 10 keV is estimated to be greater than 50%. The channel multiplier has been used as the detector in rocket borne low energy electron spectrometers to obtain the energy spectrum of the auroral electrons. Data indicate that the operation of the detectors was as expected."
"This paper presents a comprehensive evaluation of a new bi-alkaliphotocathode photomultiplier developed specifically for scintillation counting. This recently developed photomultiplier is compared to existing photomultiplier types, and data are presented showing photocathode quantum efficiency as a function of wavelength, pulse-height resolution for Cs137 and Fe55, dark-noise spectra at 25 C and -100 C, anode rise time and pulse shape, and pulse-height stability with respect to time and count rate. A method is described for measuring the spatial uniformity of photomultipliers, utilizing a dot-pattern-scanned cathode-ray-tube light source, a pulse-height analyzer, and a live cathode-ray-tube display."
"Usually, circuits for handling fast pulses are designed at low impedance levels and hence operate with relatively high power consumption. In the electronics instrumentation of the MIT Gamma-Ray Telescope, the analog portion of the electronics, which must respond to input pulses as short as 3 ns and which contains about 430 transistors, operates with a power requirement of 350 mw. The entire electronics package of 8000 components (1300 transistors) has a total power consumption of only 500 mw. The initial section of this paper will briefly describe the salient points in the design and operation of the Gamma-Ray Telescope. The subsequent portions will then discuss the signal processing involved in the analog section of the instrument and some design problems peculiar to the conflicting requirements of high speed input pulses and low power circuits."
"The X-ray experiment described here was designed to monitor the intensity, energy distribution, and time variations of solar X-rays, and to measure the intensity and angular distribution of X-rays over the celestial sphere. The detector, which operates between about 7 to 200 Kev, will also monitor local effects due to cosmic rays, trapped particles, and albedo gamma rays The telescope consisted of a thin NaI (T1) crystal-phototube assembly surrounded by a 10.5-lb cylindrical cup-shaped CsI(T1) shield crystal. The shield, connected in anticoincidence, had a 2-cm wall and defined a field of view of 13 degrees half-angle for the NaI detector. The detector had an area of 9.3 cm2 and a geometry factor of 1.5 sterad-cm2. The charge-energy relationship was divided into eight logarithmically spaced pulse-height channels. Integral rates of the shield crystal were monitored for two thresholds, set at 85 Kev and 3.2 Mev, respectively. Binary and logic circuits provided scaling, storage, and directional information for each channel, and conditioned the data for transmission through the spacecraft telemetry. The experiment is to be flown on the NASA S-57 Orbiting Solar Observatory-C, scheduled for launch in early 1965. The observatory is to be placed in a near circular orbit at 300 nautical miles at an inclination of 33 degrees to the equator. The design lifetime of the instrument is six months. Performance checks with ground observations and with high-altitude balloons indicated the counting rate due to phototube noise to be 3 counts per minute for events > 7 Kev."
"A pulse height analyzer has been designed for space use which is able to handle input count rates in excess of 5 X 104 counts per second with low power consumption and very small size. It can operate in the temperature range of -15 to + 70°C and survive storage temperature from -55 to + 125°C. A parallel-serial, coincident current, wide-temperature-range, ferrite core memory of 256 channels, 16 bits per channel is provided. A digitizing rate of 0. 5 microsecond per channel plus an average 25.5 microsecond storage time is used. An internal, nonoverloading linear amplifier is provided to handle up to 100 millivolt negative pulses for full scale storage. Control logic is provided for external commands for power, accumulate, nondestructive readout, and destructive readout functions. All input-output logic levels are compatible with conventional integrated circuits. All components are run at a fraction of their ratings in order to obtain maximum reliability."
"A spectrometer has been designed to measure in detail the energy spectrum and omnidirectional flux of energetic charged particles encountered in low-altitude satellite orbits. Two versions of the instrument are described. Each detects particles in a solid angle which approaches 2π steradians and utilizes a plastic scintillator and photomultiplier combination. In each case the energy spectrum is obtained from a pulse-height analyzer having 16 channels. The first version of the instrument employs a single plastic scintillator which is shielded, except for a 2.54 cm diameter opening, and which provides sufficient path length to stop electrons and unambiguously determine their energy to 5 MeV. The analyzer is programmed in two ranges corresponding to electron energies of 0.28-2.61 MeV and 0.28-10.02 MeV. Electron spectra obtained from this instrument on a low-altitude satellite are included. The second version of the instrument has an additional anticoincidence scintillator surrounding the entire detection crystal except for the entrance aperture, thus eliminating the contribution from all particles which do not enter via the aperture and stop in the center scintillator. In addition, shielding surrounds the outer scintillator to limit the anticoincidence dead time. The energy ranges are expanded in order to obtain fluxes and spectra of electrons from 0.3-7.0 MeV and protons from 12-80 MeV. This latter instrument is scheduled for use on the manned Gemini vehicles. This work has been supported by the Lockheed Independent Research Program and by the NASA-Manned Spacecraft Center."
"A method of converting very high bandwidth, single-transient information in a rocket-borne experiment to a much lower bandwidth is described. Application of the scan conversion technique to single-transient information of nanosecond rise time permits conversion to bandwidths commensurate with present day telemetry systems. Signal-storage rise time capability is 1 to 10 ns depending on the type of storage tube used. Of special interest is the unique transistorized linear sweep. Its delay between trigger and start of the sweep is less than 6 ns and the sweep voltage is plus and minus 400 volts. Other transistorized circuitry, such as readout sweep, time base generator, and signal amplifier, is also discussed."
"The atmosphere of Mars is assumed to consist of a mixture of argon, nitrogen and carbon dioxide with other gases appearing only in trace amounts. A capsule descending through the Martian atmosphere, containing instruments to measure the pressure, density and temperature, would make possible the determination of the total pressure and mean molecular weight. One more measurement would then be necessary to determine the partial pressures of the three gases. This measurement could be made with an ionization chamber containing an Fe55 xray source. In such a chamber the current would be linearly related to the argon content of the atmosphere."
"A technique for measuring the major elements comprising an extraterrestrial surface is discussed. This technique has been used to analyze the elements in a three element matrix simulating a common meteorite. Some of the advantages and disadvantages are discussed."
"A desirable characteristic of a two-phase hydrogen density measurement by neutron attenuation is its ability to respond dynamically to a transient flow situation. Thickness measurements of a polyethylene mockup of liquid hydrogen indicate that with the use of intense compact Po-Be neutron sources in conjunction with an optimum moderator beam source arrangement, good dynamic measurements can be made. The equipment can be mobile and flexible, and is adaptable for measuring the full range of hydrogen mixtures from liquid to gas in pipes up to 2 inches in diameter."
"A transistorized Startup Controller for the SNAP 10A space reactor was designed to be capable of surviving one year in orbit while accumulating a radiation dose of 1 x 1013 nvt fast neutrons and 2 × 107 R gammas. The challenging aspect of this design was to achieve long term reliability in the presence of moderately high radiation using semiconductors. Redundancy techniques, often used for reliability enhancement, were found ineffective in reducing the failure probability induced by radiation damage. Indiscriminate application of large derating factors, also in the interest of improving reliability, could have resulted in premature failure in a radiation environment due to the resulting misapplication of components. Additionally, the lack of appropriate radiation effects and failure rate data on many electronic components further hampered design efforts. Solutions to these and related problems were achieved through using Weibull statistical analysis and plotting techniques to predict the influence of radiation on component failure rates. The resultant controller design implements startup and control functions with transistor-diode NOR logic, which has an inherently superior tolerance to component parameter variations. Clock pulses at a 1.7 cps rate are generated directly by means of a unique magnetic oscillator designed to maintain ±5 percent frequency stability for one year under the influence of -20°C to +60°C temperature variations plus radiation. Switching load currents of 2 amps reliably in the radiation environment required the use of relays rather than semiconductors to drive the control drum actuators."
"In the SNAP reactor development program at Atomics International,* a family of lightweight nuclear reactors is being optimized for space applications. Because the compact reactor is small and light in weight, components must operate without auxiliary cooling devices, thermal barriers, heat shields, and radiation shields. The components function in the environments of ultra-high temperature, nuclear radiation, and outer space for long periods of time. Control-drum actuators have been developed which will operate with high reliability in these environments."
"In order to utilize the electron beam of the Stanford two-mile accelerator most effectively, an elaborate beam switchyard will be used. Two basic components constitute the switchyard: a switching magnet and two deflecting transport systems. A precision deflection magnet system containing several dc magnets and quadrupoles will bend and momentum-analyze the electron and positron beams. This paper discusses the methods and techniques used in making high-precision magnetic measurements in dc and multipole magnetic fields. The requirements for the accuracy of field measurements are deduced from the beam optics of the transport systems. Special measurements and instruments used in these measurements will be discussed in detail, and the results of these measurements will be related to the optical properties of the particle beams. Special measurements in multipole magnets, such as the location of the magnetic center, the magnetic coordinate system, multipole content, effective length, and different methods of making such measurements, will be discussed."
"The electron beam from the Stanford two-mile linear accelerator is analyzed by a high-quality magnetic deflection system in the beam switchyard. The first magnet element in this system is a pulsed switching magnet capable of switching beams of different energies and intensities to either transport system on a pulse-to-pulse basis. This magnet actually consists of five one-meter sections and is powered by pulsed high-voltage supplies (modulators). Each magnet section is excited with two modulators because it must pulse in either polarity in order to switch the beam left or right; the pulse height should be continuously variable to accommodate any beam energy. The magnetic field in these magnets rises sinusoidally 360 times a second and has a peak value at 1700 gauss. In this paper the optical properties of pulsed magnet will be discussed briefly. Detailed descriptions of the pulsed magnet modulators, the instrumentation for the magnet, and the test results will be given. The problems connected with high-power switching at high repetition rates will be discussed."
"This paper describes briefly the programs underway to develop solid-core reactor technology for nuclear rockets. Recent successful KIWI and NERVA reactors have shown great progress in the development of graphite reactor technology and provide a sound basis for the ultimate development of nuclear rocket engines for a variety of space missions. In addition to the reactor work, this discussion presents the efforts in the Nuclear Rocket Program for development of nonreactor components, systems studies and research, and full nuclear rocket engine systems tests (to be conducted in the next 2 or 3 years) to provide the overall technology required for application of solid-core nuclear rocket engines to missions."
"Liquid and gaseous core nuclear engines aim at higher specific impulse by removing the melting point limit on solid fuel elements. The problem of separation of fuel and propellant then becomes the major criterion for feasibility of these advanced engine concepts. Proposals to achieve separation by centrifugal forces, regeneratively cooled partitions, and fluid dynamic flows are reviewed. Of these systems, fluidized beds are closest to assured feasibility but offer the smallest performance increase over solid core systems. Liquid core concepts offer significant difficulty with modest performance gains while gaseous core systems indicate substantial improvements in performance along with serious questions of feasibility. Conceptual approaches to separation problems in gaseous core reactors are reviewed along with problems of energy transfer between fuel and propellant as well as reactor criticality. Establishment of feasibility of any one concept will require significantly better understanding of the interaction among the fuel retention mechanism, radiant energy transfer, and criticality characteristics."
"A general technical description and programmatic review of nuclear pulse propulsion activities over the last decade is presented. Major problem areas are reviewed together with the status of current research efforts. Sufficient technical information is now available to predict achievable propulsion systems performance with a rather high degree of confidence based on current materials and nuclear technology. Expected performance is summarized for one specific small propulsion module capable of being orbited by a Saturn V ELV. Finally, technical routes to achieve substantial performance improvements beyond those currently indicated are discussed."
"Preliminary analysis of radioisotopic propulsion systems indicates considerable potential for application to scientific probes provided current engineering postulations can be realized. Typical applications, as indicated by analysis to date, would be high energy space missions such as solar probes to distances of approximately 0.05 A. U. and explorer probes in deep space out to the vicinity of Saturn. In order for the full calculated potential of these systems to be realized, the engineering feasibility of problems such as lightweight tankage, superinsulation for liquid hydrogen storage for more than thirty days in space, and tank-pressure propellant feed systems will have to be demonstrated."
"This paper discusses future electrical power requirements for various possible space missions. Probable time frames are included wherever possible. Three categories of missions are considered: earth orbital operations including communication and weather satellites, manned orbiting laboratories, and scientific satellites; lunar operations in the post-Apollo era; and intrasolar system operations including manned and unmanned planetary missions, solar probes, and out of the ecliptic probes. Power levels necessary to support the missions vary widely; various levels from a fraction of a kilowatt to hundreds of kilowatts are discussed. This paper reaffirms the conclusion reached by a growing number of people that the availability of electrical power may pace future space explorations."
"Technological progress in the development of electric propulsion thrustors during the past several years has been quite rapid, and as a consequence the performance potential of a broad spectrum of thrustor types has been fairly well delineated. Thrustor types include electrostatic thrustors, i.e., ion propulsion devices utilizing either surface or electron bombardment ionization sources and devices which utilize charged colloids as propellant; electrothermal thrustors, i.e., arcjets and resistojets; electromagnetic thrustors, i.e., pulsed or steady state devices utilizing predominantly magnetohydrodynamic forces for acceleration; and so-called hybrid thrustor types, in which are wed electrothermal and electromagnetic techniques, as exemplified by the so-called \"Harcjet\" or \"thermo-ionic rocket\". Those thrustor types from this spectrum which presently appear most promising are discussed, together with a brief description of their operating mechanisms, performance results, and the major technical trends, unsolved problems and future directions of this field as viewed by the author. The important early missions for these thrustors are briefly summarized, together with some new concepts for electrical propulsion systems, and criteria are presented for the selection of an electric thrustor type or types from this spectrum of choices for different types of missions. The viewpoint adopted throughout is that for the nonspecialist in this field."
"The prospects for electric space propulsion are examined by considering the applicability of both electric propulsion and competitive propulsion systems to various manned and unmanned missions. The mission performance of the various systems is compared, and some consideration is given to development schedules, development costs, operational costs, growth potential and auxiliary applications. The paper is based primarily on NASA missions because military missions for high-energy propulsions are not well defined at the present time. It is shown that a single type of spacecraft, using electric propulsion systems currently under development, can be used for unmanned exploration of virtually the entire solar system. The competitive propulsion systems are incapable of performing many of these high-energy unmanned exploration missions. It is further shown that electric propulsion and nuclear rocket propulsion are competitive for manned Mars landing missions and lunar freighter missions. A combination of nuclear rocket propulsion and electric propulsion appears to offer the best performance for manned Mars missions."
"The paper surveys several unconventional concepts of nuclear power and propulsion systems which have been proposed during recent years. The unconventional aspects of these concepts reside partly in their indicated performance capability and partly in the scanty discussion they received thus far by other workers in the field. It is the objective of this survey to bring these proposals to renewed attention and discussion among those concerned with progress in space power and propulsion systems. Beside the magneto hydro dynamics (MHD) accelerators, also included are electro gas dynamics (EGD) and fusion propulsion concepts whose indicated performance characteristics warrant a closer scrutiny because of their potential attractiveness for the future aerospace transportation systems."
"It is important to know the orientation of the crystal axis of silicon semiconductor detectors when they are used for the detection of energetic charged particles in stacked arrays and the particles are expected to traverse all of the detectors. It has been observed that particles that pass through the crystal along the directions of crystal planes or axes lose less energy than those in other directions. This anomalous energy loss spoils the response characteristics of the detector. Various experiments have demonstrated that the penetrating particles tend to move along crystal planes or axes by a process of correlated multiple-coulomb scattering. The experimental evidence for these anomalous characteristics will be reviewed and the degrading effects on the discrimination ability of mass-discrimination detector-systems will be shown. Mass distribution curves were taken for protons, deuterons, tritons, as well as He3 and alpha particles in the 20 to 40 MeV region with a thin siliconΔE detector oriented with the (111), (110) and other axis parallel to the penetrating particle direction. The mass separation is appreciably improved when the crystal is oriented so that the direction of the penetrating particles is well away from any of the major crystal planes or axes."
"Position-sensitive surface-barrier detectors have been made with web silicon, a hyper-pure silicon in ribbon form. Several characteristics of this material are especially suited for position detectors, i.e., long lengths, flexibility and high surface lifetimes. In addition, the structural stability, thickness uniformity, and thin cross sections make this material attractive for standard or position sensitive dE/dx detectors. Counters with active areas of 2-3.5 cm × 2-4 mm have been tested with 5.5-MeV alpha particles yielding spectra sensitive in position to less than 1%. A region of twin planes is exhibited within the material by changes in the slope of the plots of detector capacitance and leakage current as functions of reverse bias. The effect of the twin planes on the carrier collection efficiency has been investigated with several samples and found to be significant in certain cases. These results are discussed in terms of carrier lifetimes."
"Germanium lithium-ion drift p-i-n diodes with depletion depths up to 11 mm and active volume 6 cm3 have been fabricated from 10 ohm-cm, gallium-doped material using a high-power drift method. Diodes were immersed in chloroform and drifted at ohmic dissipation power levels in the range 50-100 W at 30-50 V D. C. drift bias. Diodes were electrothermally stabilized during drift by the boiling action of the chloroform (B. P. = 61.3°C). Peak power levels of up to 250 W at 200 V bias were obtained at the commencement of the chloroform drift, but were reduced to within the range given above following a rapid increase in leakage current during the first few hours of drift. Diode temperatures were estimated at 10-20°C above the chloroform boiling point. Drift times were typically 500 to 700 hours for depletion depths of 8 and 10 mm respectively. Seven diodes with depletion depths 6-11 mm have been operated as γ-ray spectrometers in vacuum (10-6 mm Hg) at liquid N2 temperatures (77°K) with bias up to 1200 V and leakage currents ~10-9A. Some typical spectral response characteristics are given for diodes used as photoelectric γ-ray spectrometers and the effect of carrier trapping on energy resolution is demonstrated. Resolutions of 3.5 and 8.0 keV on the full-energy peaks of 122 and 1353 keV γ-rays were obtained from a device of average performance (5 cm2 x 7 mm depletion depth). The intrinsic full-energy peak efficiency of a 4."
"This paper describes the fabrication procedure and some properties of thin-window lithium-compensated germanium nuclear-particle detectors. Their response to various nuclear particles is illustrated with typical spectra. In addition, some data on collection times in germanium and silicon detectors are presented along with a description of experiments concerning the relative energies to form an electron-hole pair in silicon and germanium at liquid-nitrogen temperature. Finally, the relative response of germanium and silicon detectors to fast neutrons is compared."
"Significant internal pulse amplification has been observed in silicon p-n junction radiation detectors operated in the very high field (but prebreakdown) region. Such internal electric field values (peak fields of 60 - 250 kilovolts cm-1) are attainable over distances of up to 250 microns through the use of geometrical control of the field existing at the surface of the junction. Amplification factor for the simple P + N geometry studied thus far is not constant being greatest for the short range particles and decreasing as particle range into the detector increases. In the amplifying mode, a directional effect is observed with amplification being dependent upon energy loss in the region of highest field (and thus the direction of the particle). Detector response has been measured for incident alpha particles, beta particles in the energy range from 0.04 MeV to minimum ionizing, protons from 0.5 - 3.0 MeV, and for 5 keV x-rays. Pulse risetimes which should be in the sub-nanosecond range for these geometries have been measured with alpha particles and with synchronous 0.88 and 1.06 micron wavelength photons from pulsed lasers with the detector being able to follow laser pulses with 2 - 5 nanosecond risetime. It is believed that the magnitude of internal amplification makes feasible the use of tunnel diodes in associated circuitry for numerous applications. Preliminary results to this end are briefly discussed."
"A method of calculating neutron spectra in the energy range above 3 MeV is presented. Analysis of the pulse height due to the (n, p) and (n, α) interaction in a silicon charged particle detector permits computation of the neutron spectrum by inversion of a matrix whose elements are proportional to the charged particle cross section."
"In order to understand the rectifying process involved in silicon surface barrier nuclear particle counters, we have substituted the usual gold contact with various metals. The results obtained from this substitution with twenty different metals are given. New results concerning the formation of the rectifying process for the case of gold-silicon diodes are presented. In particular, we have considered the resistivity of silicon, and the thickness of the gold film."
"Surface-barrier detectors have been fabricated from high-resistivity (up to 20,000 ohm cm.) n-type silicon by means of a technique which allows them to be operated at large reverse-bias voltages without guard rings. Reaction protons of 17 Mev energy obtained from (d, p) reactions at the Argonne National Laboratory Tandem Van de Graaff accelerator have been stopped with a reverse bias of 700 volts on a detector made of 20,000 ohm cm. material. The detector area is 28 sq. mm., and it was cooled by means of a thermoelectric device described below. Under these conditions the measured energy resolution is 29 Kev for the protons, and the leakage current is 0.1 microampere. This detector operates satisfactorily at reverse biases up to 1800 volts. At this voltage its measured energy resolution for 1 Mev electrons is 35 Kev at room temperature, and its leakage current is 1.12 microamperes. Special precautions required when the detectors are used at accelerators are discussed. The methods used to form the inversion layers of these detectors and to protect their edges are discussed in some detail since it is necessary that the reverse bias be withstood with both low noise and low leakage current to obtain good energy resolution. The characteristics of some of these detectors have been observed for a period of two years, and conditions necessary for their stability with time are given. The detectors have also been tested in a vacuum of 2 x 10-6 mm."
"Following up on the work of C. R. Sun1 , we are investigating the performance of homogeneous, high-resistivity, silicon crystals as detectors for minimum-ionizing particles. In particular we are considering such a detector for use in conjunction with the operation of a hydrogen bubble chamber. Such devices would have the advantages of good spatial resolution, compactness, and stable performance in high magnetic fields. Operation would be at liquid nitrogen temperature. The detectors are cut as 2.5 mm thick wafers from an n-type ingot ~1.8 cm in diameter and with a typical resistivity of 1000 to 3000 ohm-cm. Nickel ohmic contacts are applied to each side of the wafer by a chemical plating process. In order to keep the dark current to a minimum, we try to raise the resistivity of the prospective detector close to the intrinsic level. This is accomplished by exposing the silicon, at 25°C, to a high flux of γ radiation from a Co60 source. Typically, after an exposure of 1.5 × 107 roentgens the silicon will have a resistivity of 4.0 × 106 ohm-cm at liquid nitrogen temperature (78°K). Using a charge sensitive amplifier, we observe pulse rise times of the order of 150 nanoseconds and signal to noise ratios greater than 10. There exists a \"critical exposure level,\" C.E.L., for the γ irradiation. For radiation dosages greater than the C.E.L., the detector performance deteriorates. It seems possible to determine the C.E.L. conveniently by checking the detector resistivity at 25°C; for when the C.E.L."
"Investigation of the response anomaly in silicon semiconductor radiation detectors cooled to temperatures below 40°K has been continued. Experiments with surface barrier detectors show that the mean temperature at which normally ionized impurity atoms accept electrons (as deduced from dE/dx measurement of the depletion depth) is a slowly varying function of the impurity concentration. This behavior is expected from the dependence of the Fermi level on the temperature, impurity concentration and ionization energy. Below the narrow temperature interval in which the majority of the impurity atoms accept electrons and hence become electrically neutral, particles which produce low ionization densities (beta particles) produce pulse heights with room temperature magnitudes, while particles with high ionization densities (alpha particles) produce pulse heights which are lower than those characteristic of room temperature operation and which depend on the detector bias voltage. The results of experiments conducted to investigate polarization effects in lithiumdrifted semiconductor radiation detectors are described."
"The response of certain solid state detectors to large bursts of ionizing particles has been investigated for the purpose of determining what detectors are suitable for recording accurately the sizes and shapes of rapidly changing ionizing flux. Basic design details for a gamma ray detector with response proportional to the incident energy flux are given."
"Tests were conducted at the 160-Mev Harvard cyclotron on fully depleted solid-state detectors. This work was done in conjunction with a feasibility study of a proposed proton spectrometer consisting of two dE/dx detectors in a coincident telescope arrangement that can analyze protons over an energy range 0.5 Mev to greater than 200 Mev. The surface barrier sensors were exposed to protons of energies varying from 50 to 160 Mev to determine the response of these sensors to high-energy protons. The two major parameters to be determined were the most probable energy loss in the detector by protons of energy E and the resolution of the energy loss distribution. The results of the tests will be compared with the Symon treatment of the Landau effect. The proposed. proton spectrometer will also be discussed briefly."
"Developments in radiation detectors have established a need for maximum amplifier stability. This paper derives detailed design equations for the transistor current feedback amplifier that are necessary for careful gain stability analyses. These expressions clearly define the open loop gain limitations, and they indicate circuit variations which greatly improve the temperature stability. The parameter rd (1/hoe) of the grounded emitter stage is seen to require the greatest attention. It limits open loop gain, but stability of the open loop gain can still be achieved. The design equations are general, and modifications to the basic loop further improve stability, reduce input and output impedances, or enable the use of high impedance input. A four-transistor feedback loop has been tested that has 0.01 ohms input and output impedances, a gain of 50, 15 ns rise time, and a temperature stability of 10 ppm/°C."
"A dead-time of one-microsecond for 40 channels has been achieved with a Wilkinson type ADC. The nominal clock rate is 55 megacycles per second. The ADC consists of a linear-gate, a convertor section, a scaler, and three control monostables. The monostables establish an encode period when the conversion takes place, a transfer period when the word in the scaler is read in parallel, and a reset period when the scaler is reset. The scaler consists of six binaries connected in binary-coded-decimal (1-2-4-8-10-20). Another binary stores the overflow and another stores the anti-coincidence. The convertor uses a stretcher, a current generator, a comparator, and a unique 55-megacycle oscillator. The oscillator is gated both on and off with known and constant phase. The oscillator chosen inherently starts with known phase. The stop is accomplished by mixing the oscillator with the comparator output into a time delay circuit. The output of the time delay causes the stop. The stretcher will charge fully on a pulse of gaussian shape and 45 nanoseconds rise, foot-to-peak, and encoding will begin within 50 nanoseconds after the pulse peak. Operating characteristics, including independent linearity, differential linearity, and stability have been measured on a number of units."
"A 256-channel analog-to-digital converter having a 10 nsec per channel digitizing rate utilizing a 100 Mc crystal controlled clock will be described. Pulse analysis is accomplished by a new technique - a sample of the input pulse is analyzed based on \"crossover timing\" rather than \"peak detection.\" This technique results in better linearity and less spectrum distortion at high counting rates. The \"crossover timing\" also provides a means of pile-up rejection based on the input pulse shape. A flexible address control provides a means of digital zero suppression which eliminates the spectrum distortion normally present with analog zero suppression and provides an accurate, reproducible means of analyzing portions of a spectrum. In order to minimize the ADC dead time, address information is \"transferred\" in parallel to the memory. Immediately after transfer the ADC is \"free\" to accept another input pulse for analysis. The ADC was designed as a plug-in accessory to a versatile, high speed, thin film memory. The complete system provides a means for accurately accumulating data at analyzed counting rates exceeding 100,000 stored counts per second."
"This report describes an amplifier system having the capability of compressing several decade pulse height ranges into several linear step gain ranges covering only a single decade. Rather than employing the usual frequency, voltage, and temperature dependent low voltage semiconductor switching and conduction characteristics, this amplifying system utilizes the reproducible, easily calibrated, abrupt, high level limiting characteristics of a transistor operational feedback amplifier. The several cascaded stages of this amplifier, whose individual outputs drive a pulse adder, use these abrupt, high level limiting characteristics to determine the boundries between several well defined linear step gain ranges as a function of pulse amplitude. The gain in each of these ranges is established by that gain available prior to the point where limiting occurs in the amplifier system. Such an amplifying system has great application in the measurement of wide range nuclear or other pulse height spectra, where the relatively poor resolution uniformity of multichannel analyzers either dictates an unreasonable number of available channels or the use of some sort of compression amplifier. The plot of Fig. 1 clearly displays this resolution nonuniformity."
"The design of a logarithmic amplifier with an operating range from 10-12 to 10-2 ampere is presented. A logarithmic characteristic within plus or minus 2 per cent of a decade over the 10 decade operating range of the instrument has been realized in the first model. Design improvements being incorporated in a second model include improved transient characteristics and an improved temperature compensation method."
"Use of the closely matching emission of GaAs and spectral response of silicon detectors is proposed as an optical method of monitoring overall nuclear detector system response. A GaAs diode is a high-speed current device which emits light with an intensity linearly related to the electrical input over a wide range and which has a frequency response well beyond that of normal silicon detectors. The speed of the GaAs source enables overall evaluation of the silicon detector and its associated circuitry. Where applicable, the optical monitoring of nuclear detector systems with compact GaAs sources offers a highly flexible alternative to isotope and electrical pulse methods. Experimental behavior of sone typical sources and detectors and the results of a procedure developed to monitor a nuclear pulse detector system are presented."
"Source and startup-range pulse instrumentation for large reactor plants in general impose severe environmental conditions on the design of preamplifiers and pulse coupling networks. Space or size limitations electrical noise fields, high ambient temperatures, and lack of accessibility for maintenance all adversely affect signal-to-noise ratio and reliability. An additional problem was present in the design of the startup preamplifier system for the Hallam Nuclear Power Facility (HNPF) because the detector was located in a high gamma field, making some special precautions necessary to prevent small-signal pileup. This paper describes the design of a preamplifier system which overcomes these problems and yields high stability and long term, maintenance-free service at ambient temperatures up to 100°C. The installed system shows at least a 35 db improvement in signal-to-noise ratio over conventional instruments in the same application. Remote location of the preamplifier (up to about 100 feet) from the detector is possible so that the preamplifier itself is out of both the radiation field and the highest temperature locations. The system consists of the chamber and transformer coupling network (between chamber and preamplifier,) and a reliable, high stability preamplifier."
"A new type of reactor period meter utilizing multi-pulse magnetic counter as a neutron level comparator is described. The counter, which is initially counted for a unit interval at any time, is subtracted by one count for each input pulse after a fixed time-lag. The time required to empty the counter may be converted to reactor period by usage of a logic matrix. Ring ferrite cores are used as high speed shaping element and high speed pental counting element, and Deltamax core (50 Ni-Fe alloy) as decimal counting one. These pental and decimal counting circuits are originated from dividing the total magnetic flux amount (from negative to positive saturation) into 5 and 10 steps, respectively, and changing the flux level in the magnetic core stepwise corresponding to each input pulse. The period meter construction with magnetic cores results in increasing simplicity and reliability, and is much superior to the conventional circuit with a logarithmic amplifier and a differential circuit."
"A high speed amplifier/discriminator has been designed and built for use with an electron multiplier as part of a surface ionization mass spectrometer. This amplifier/discriminator permits low loss system operation up to 2 × 106 cps average count rate with random pulses. The design technique uses clipping, differentiation, and staggered quiescent operating points to achieve wide dynamic range and high equivalent frequency response. RF stripline technique and partial neutralization provide excellent stability over the required bandwidth. Pulse height discrimintion is accomplished through use of a monostable tunnel diode circuit."
"Spark chamber and circuit development for computer-wire chamber systems is described, based on programmed discharges added to an initial high voltage pulse. The basic principle is that the discharge caused by an ionizing particle is converted by an appropriate supply circuit to a secondary discharge, which matches without excessive energy dissipation the requirements of the electronic retrieval system, and does not diffuse beyond its original spatial extent. It is shown that it is possible to record both the x and y coordinates if a single spark without dangerous over-voltage on the detector array, and that one can hold the secondary discharge long enough to act as the sole memory element in the system. This leads to the possibility of retrieving correlated coordinates from multiple events with minimum computer time as well as improved recovery time. This work is described in various intermediate stages with emphasis on our objectives and proposed technological innovations rather than final results. Final results will be published later; it is hoped that this paper will attract suggestions as to which aspects of our work should be pursued immediately, modified, or postponed."
"The wires of wire spark chambers or hodoscope planes are individually threaded through magnetic memory cores, which are \"set\" by the spark currents. Only a small fraction of the wires are struck by the sparks of one event, so that it is practical to generate addresses for those cores which have been \"set.\" Circuits are described which scan the cores sequentially, 32 at a time, generating addresses and transmitting them to a buffer store or to a computer. A certain minimum time, in our case determined by the transit time of signals in cables, is required to scan the cores. A small additional time is required to generate and store each address. Any number of sparks may be handled in one event, and checking features have been incorporated in the system."
"Short over-all time delay, low time jitter, and excellent long-term reliability are among the desirable features designed into a pulse generator that produces a 2-MW output pulse 30 nsec after the application of a 1-V signal at its 50-ohm input connector. The 10-kV output pulse can be used to trigger simultaneously several spark gaps of the type used in spark-chamber pulse modulators. The 10 power gain of the spark-gaptrigger amplifier is achieved by four stages of amplification packaged in a 5-1/4 in. rack-mount chassis that operates directly from a 117-V line. The individual stages, each selected to give minimum time delay for a given power gain at their respective power levels are: avalanche transistors, planar triode, grounded-grid planar triode, and a triggered-spark gap. The techniques used for the last stage, a spark gap triggered by a corona light, are of particular interest since the same techniques are applicable to obtaining short time delays and long-term reliability from the larger spark gaps that the amplifier was designed to trigger. During 10 months of operation, there have been no failures and no adjustments necessary in any of the seven spark-gap trigger amplifiers used in various spark-chamber experiments at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory of the University of California (UCLRL) in Berkeley."
"A broad range, low deflection magnetic neutron spectrometer has been constructed to measure the neutron spectrum from pulsed and steady state sources. The instrument will cover an energy range of from 1 to 15 MEV and is designed for an energy resolution of approximately 10 percent. A collimated beam of neutrons is allowed to impinge on a thin polyethylene radiator producing recoil protons. A small forward cone of these protons, corresponding to the full energies of the incident neutrons, is allowed to enter the magnetic field. The protons are analyzed and focus at some point outside the magnetic field. The focal line is straight and makes about a 10° angle with the pole piece edge With 6 MEV incident neutrons, a 0.001 inch radiator, and a 0.5 inch slit width, the energy resolution ig 9.3% and the efficiency is 5.1 x 10-8counts per neutron incident on the radiator."
"The yield of 14-mev pulsed neutron sources may be measured by a detector which counts gamma decay from Pb208(n, 2n) Pb207m and Pb207 (n, n') Pb2O7m reactions. Threshold for the device is 1.6 mev and the half-life of the Pb207m isomer is 0.8 second; the high sensitivity and the short half-life of a lead counter allow the dectector to be operated in place and at frequent intervals."
"The design of a general purpose medical scanner utilizing a digital data recording system is described. The need for such apparatus is briefly discussed and the organization of the data recording portion is described in detail."
"The first section of this paper considers the physcial design of detector heads for monitoring the activity in gas flow circuits commonly met in reactor systems, particular attention being given to detectors of the scintillation type. The second section describes the detailed requirements of the electronic system wqhich is used with the detector heads to form complete monitors, reference being made to the conventional principles of electronic design giving fail-to-safety operation and built-in self checking facilities. The third section describes typical practical systems, based on the preceding philosophy, which have been designed for use on gas circuits of experimental, materials testing, and power producing reactors."
"Previous investigations have indicated that radiation surface effects on semiconductors largely are due to ions produced in the gas near the semiconductor surface. In the present work these effects have been studied directly by a gas discharge technique. Large electrical changes could be induced by either positive or negative species; in the case of transistors Ico could increase by several orders of magnitude. The relaxation of the effects may take many hours. The nature of the surface effects was investigated by observations of the I-V characteristics and of the action of various gases (e.g. O2,H2O) after ion exposure. The main effects were due to inversion layers which might be induced on either side of a junction. The decay of the surface effect could be accelerated by heat, light and by the presence of certain gases. In addition the surface charge could be removed very rapidly by exposure to species of opposite charge to those creating the inversion layer."
"The principal effects on transistors subjected to prolonged ionizing radiation fields are the reduction of the forward current gain and the increase of the collector-base leakage current. Thin base, high frequency transistors are more resistant to gain degradation than low frequency units. Leakage current increases arise from direct generation of carriers by the ionizing radiation, by the formation of surface channels, and damage to the lattice structure. The useful life of equipment can be increased by the selection of transistors which minimize surface channeling. The extent to which channeling will take place is strongly determined by the presence of surface defects and hence can be predicted by a microplasma noise test. Mechanical positioning problems can frequently be disclosed through a brief radiation screening test. In addition, units having abnormally high initial Icbo are subject to rapid failure."
"A non-destructive method for selecting radiation resistant semiconducting devices has been investigated. The technique involves the controlled laboratory irradiation of devices, subsequent temperature annealing, and then use of the devices that are found to be most radiation resistant. Two series of radiation-annealing experiments were performed. In the first, the radiation damage caused by 6.6 × 1015 1 MeV electron/cm2 was annealed from the 1N645 silicon diodes. In the second series, radiation damage caused by 1.9 MeV electrons for similar integrated flux levels has been annealed from both 1N645 and 1N1563A diodes, and on re-irradiation the annealed devices have been as radiation resistant as the first time."
"The effects of steady-state reactor radiation on thin magnetic films were studied experimentally. Radiation effects were characterized in terms of changes in the magnetic properties of films at several flux levels. The nature of changes in solid-state structure was studied by means of X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy. Changes in magnetic properties are discussed as a function of physical damage to the films. The influence of coatings applied to the films to prevent non-nuclear damage is evaluated. Radiation-induced changes are compared to changes induced by annealing similar films in air. An explanation for observed differences in the extent of damage as a function of coating material is suggested."
"The behavior of MOS transistors has been studied in both the ionizing radiation and neutron environments. Included in the study are both depletion and enhancement devices. Behavior in the radiation environment is considered in terms of the circuit application of the devices. Transient response in the flash x-ray enviroment is characterized in the common source configuration as a function of the device operation point and generator inpedance. Analysis of experimental data shows that the radiation induced transient drain current consists of two components, the drain-substrate diode photocurrent and the secondary drain photocurrent. A radiation inclusive small signal equivalent circuit has been established to predict the device response. Predicted responses agree with the experimental data quite well. For permanent damage study, MOS transistor specimens have been irradiated at the Northrop TRIGA reactor at steps of integrated fast neutron flux up to 5 × 1014nvt. Both the degradation of the device small signal parameters and a substantial shift in the dc operating characteristics were observed. The change in the small signal parameter is less when the device is biased at a constant quiescent drain current than when it is biased at a constant gate voltage. Comparison of the behavior of the MOS transistor to the bipolar junction transistor and the unipolar FET is difficult because of the lack of a good circuit criteria. It is felt that, considering the radiation environments, the MOS transistor shows promise as an effective circuit element."
"The effect of electron, proton and neutron irradiation of silicon lithium-drift P-I-N diodes is given in terms of optical and x-ray response changes. All diodes used for this study were fabricated from high oxygen content Czochralski silicon. The long term compensation stability exhibited by these diodes is attributed to the decreased effective lithium ion mobility in this material. The junction capacitance changes as a result of irradiation indicate that, in addition to the usual minority carrier lifetime degradation, there is also a redistribution of the lithium ions within the drifted region. This redistribution has the form of an increased lithium gradient at the junction, resulting in a narrower depletion width. The twofold effect of a reduction in active volume together with a degradation of carrier lifetime explains the experimentally observed result that the lithium-drift P-I-N diodes are more susceptible to radiation damage than the P-N structure. The experimental data also indicate, however, that for operation in a non-nuclear environment the P-I-N structure can be made more efficient than the P-N structure. This is particularly true for photons having energies near the cutoff energy of 1.1 ev or above 100 kev where photoelectric cross sections are insignificant and compton processes predominate."
"IN STUDYING TRANSIENT EFFECTS PRODUCED BY BURSTS OF IONIZING RADIATION, IT IS ESSENTIAL TO KNOW THE AMOUNT OF ABSORBED ENERGY. A CUSTOMARY PROCEDURE IS TO MEASURE THE EXPOSURE DOSE IN ROENTGENS AND TO CONVERT IT TO THE ABSORBED DOSE IN RADS, KNOWING THE ENERGY SPECTRUM OF THE INCIDENT RADIATION AND THE ABSORPTION CONSTANT OF THE MATERIAL. THIS IS A TEDIOUS AND OFTEN INACCURATE PROCEDURE. SINCE MOST OF THE PRACTICAL SITUATIONS INVOLVE SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES, IT IS ADVANTAGEOUS TO MEASURE THE ABSORBED ENERGY DIRECTLY IN THE PERTINENT SEMICONDUCTOR MATERIAL, GERMANIUM OR SILICON. WE HAVE PERFORMED ENERGY ABSORPTION MEASUREMENTS IN THREE FLASH X-RAY ENVIRONMENTS USING SILICON. THE TECHNIQUE INVOLVES MEASURING THE CHANGE IN CONDUCTIVITY PRODUCED BY PULSED IRRADIATION OF BULK SAMPLES. IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT THE MINORITY CARRIER LIFETIME BE LONG COMPARED TO THE RADIATION PULSE. (IF THE PULSE IS LONG COMPARED TO THE LIFETIME, THIS TECHNIQUE CAN BE EMPLOYED, BUT IT THEN REQUIRES MEASUREMENT OF THE LIFETIME). TO PROVIDE CONFIDENCE IN THE TECHNIQUE, MEASUREMENTS HAVE BEEN PERFORMED USING A VARIETY OF SAMPLE CONDITIONS. THE RESISTIVITY, GEOMETRY, CONTACTS, AND SURFACE CONDITIONS HAVE BEEN VARIED. LEAD SHIELDING ELIMINATED CONTACT EFFECTS. EFFECTS OF AIR IONIZATION, SECONDARY ELECTRON PRODUCTION, SAMPLE HOMOGENEITY, AND X-RAY SCATTERING WERE ALSO DETERMINED. INTERNAL X-RAY ABSORPTION WAS MEASURED. THE RESULTS INDICATE THAT SIMPLE APPLICATION OF THIS PROCEDURE LEADS TO MEASUREMENT OF ABSORBED DOSES WITH A PRECISION OF THE ORDER OF 5 TO 10%."
"The establishment of high vacuum in the intense radiation field of a reactor core is limited by: (1) poor conducting geometry, i.e. systems with a large length to diameter radio; (2) suitable reactor materials, i.e. materials having low neutron absorption; and (3) radiation induced outgassing. This work constitutes an investigation of the magnitude of the radiation induced outgassing rate of a well cleaned and baked 6061-6063 aluminum system. Measurements performed in both the NBS 32 KC Co60 gamma irradiation facility and the NRL 1 MW reactor facility disclosed that the phenomenon of radiation induced outgassing was principally due to the gamma and its associated electron field rather than to the fast neutron field. The magnitude of the effect observed was (7 + 4) 10-11 torr liters/sec cm2 per watt/gm."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The design procedure for a nonlinear reactor control system is described. The control system contains two nonlinearities, separated by a linear section: a dead-band, normally used to reduce the noise excitation of the control system, and a gear backlash, which in this case is particularly important, due to the fact that the control elements are cylinders with limited effective angular range. The type of electrical motors was also defined (Slo-Syn motors, which can operate as synchronous or stepping motors). The work has been developed using analog and analytical methods in parallel, and the final control scheme (a velocity servo with stepping motors) has been throughly tested on the analog computer with noisy inputs, and theoretically studied with a describing function method extended to the case of systems with multiple nonlinearities connected by linear sections."
"A theory of the effect of an ion rocket engine exhaust on the radiation pattern of a dipole antenna is presented. The electromagnetic equations are combined with those describing the exhaust plasma beam to calculate its equivalent effective dielectric constant. In part I of this paper, the beam is represented by an infinite slab of a homogenous plasma medium, as is usually considered in space charge neutralization studies of this type of engine. The equations of propagation of electromagnetic waves through the beam medium, are used to calculate the total dipole radiation field. The method of steepest descent is applied for the evaluation of the integrals. It is found that the dipole radiation pattern depends greatly on the beam characteristic parameters."
"In part II, a cylindrical configuration is used to represent the engine exhaust beam. The dipole, considered as a linear current source, is transformed by means of a Fourier series to an equivalent cosinusoidally distributed current sheet surrounding the beam. A radiation pattern function is presented to give the azimuthal beam synthesis of the dipole. It is found that the antenna radiation pattern is affected seriously by the presence of the exhaust beam. Plasma waves in the exhaust beam are found to be excited by the dipole field. The Boltzman and Poisson equations are used to investigate the existence and nature of these waves."
"The investigation of radiation-induced stress changes in two types of epoxies was discussed. A semirigid 3M-241 type of Scotchcast material which has low intrinsic internal stress was irradiated. The increase in stresses due to radiation is twofold. First the material seems to cure out completely. Further irradiation led to a linear pressure increase which was reversible once the material was removed from the gamma source. The Epocast type H2E-011 material, when completely cured, had high intrinsic stresses of 30,000 psi. When irradiated for an extensive period, the material changed color from a light yellow to brown, and internal stresses were reduced threefold. After the sample was removed, it regained the original high internal stress condition after two months on the shelf."
"Two thin-film triodes., fabricated by successive vacuum deposition of metal electrodes, a semiconductor, an insulator, and a gate electrode, and which exhibit good amplifying characteristics, were exposed to steady-state reactor radiation. Samples protected by a glass cover plate during irradiation survived reactor doses of 1.3 × 1016 n/cm2 (E > 0.3 Mev) and 2.4 × 1010 ergs/gm (C) without degradation. Stability in high-energy radiation environments may be attributed to polycrystallinity, conduction by majority carriers, and thinness of the thin-film devices. These results of steady-state irradiation substantiate previous indications from transient radiation tests which showed thin-film active and passive devices to be more stable than single-crystal devices by two to three orders of magnitude."
"As accurate and rapid techniques for analytical performance prediction of thermionic plasma diodes are presently lacking, an IBM digital computer program has been developed to semiempirically predict diode performance. Experimental curves of voltage versus current are presented for tantalum, molybdenum, and rhenium for a wide range of emitter and cesium temperatures. These are processed by the program to determine the optimum efficiency characteristics for various emitter temperatures. Graphical presentations of the processed data indicate the maximum obtainable efficiencies using any of the three emitter materials. The corresponding values of cesium temperature and diode voltage necessary to obtain this efficiency and the corresponding power densities are also presented."
"An experimental and theoretical analysis of neutron damage to germanium and silicon transistors is presented. A combination of experimental data and first order theory has been used to determine lifetime damage constant as a function of neutron energy. Two separate effects attributable to the recombination centers have been identified. At low bias levels recombination centers present in the emitter diode field region cause a very large decrease in current gain. At higher levels of emitter bias current recombination centers present in the base region cause a reduction in current gain. The temperature dependence of current gain is stronger when emitter region recombination is the dominant process than when base region recombination is most effective. The damage thresholds of silicon transistors can be increased by operating at high ambient temperatures. The characteristics of the recombination centers have been determined from the experimental data and agree well with values previously obtained by measurements on bulk semiconductor samples. Two discrete recombination levels in silicon and two discrete recombination levels in germanium are shown to determine the dependence of transistor current gain on neutron radiation."
"The display system consists of two scintillators, photomultipliers, and direct-view storage tubes; an optical superposition device with color filters; a conventional cathode-ray oscilloscope; and the associated circuitry, containing voltage supplies, amplifiers, etc. (See Fig. 6) The virtues of the system are well illustrated in use at low scattered electron intensities, whether low count rate be due to low beam strength, small beam-defining slit settings, or high energy resolution. The presentation magnification may be chosen by simple switching. Centering on the region of interest in the specimen is obtained by adjusting the dc bias voltages applied to the microscope deflection plates. Successive scans may then be piled up until visual observation indicates that a good statistical integration has been achieved for the particularly interesting region of the specimen. The recording camera may be interposed leisurely, and so may the color position device if desired, while the displays are retained in storage. The presented intensity may be adjusted for photographic ease, and additional photographs may be taken much later. Meanwhile, if the specimen contains sharp contrast edges in both directions of the microscope beam deflection plates, objective measurements may be made of the available resolution by observing signal rise time on the ordinary oscilloscope. The adjustability, versatility and convenience in using this display system have been well established with an experimental scanning microscope providing two energy-separated beams of electrons from those leaving the specimen. The general system complexity is a major disadvantage."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The author has illuminated some of the questions which appear to cloud constructive builder - user relations. Each of the questions has a common feature: the problems will not be solved by extreme, one-way solutions; these problems are a feature of a new era of experimentation using large shared instruments. On the one hand, the objectives and the fundamental interest are just as \"academic\" as they have always been in the past when large tools were not required; on the other hand, the technical necessities are such that traditional academic methods cannot be blindly continued. In order to solve these problems there is a clear need for the builders to understand the problems of the users, and the users, the problems of the builders."
"The complexity of high energy accelerators has increased to the point where digital control techniques offer significant advantages. The basic techniques and equipment have been developed over the last ten years for use in chemical and steel plants. Some of these techniques can be usedin modified form on high energy accelerators. The amount of time required for analog-to-digital conversion and for computer input-output operations limits computers to supervisory type control. The relatively slow output rates from the computer, in combination with the precise timing requirements of the synchrotron, indicate that a special buffer is required between the computer and the synchrotron. This buffer should be able to store and execute the instructions necessary to adjust all variables (magnitude and time) that are under computer control. Present control computers are so well perfected that most of the development effort goes into suitable sensing equipment and into computer programs. Injector alignment, analysis of coasting beam, control of tune, and control of characteristics of the beam to each of several experiments are some of the functions that appear to be realizable."
"Techniques of aligning linear accelerators are discussed with specific reference to the alignment system of the two-mile accelerator. This system uses a \"three-point\" method by which a point which is to be aligned is brought into coincidence with the line as defined by its end points. The end points are a laser and a photo-electric detector. A rectangular Fresnel lens is located at each point to be aligned to define the \"third point.\""
"The 200-BeV proton synchrotron being proposed by the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory is about 1 mile in diameter. The tolerance for accuracy in vertical placement of magnets is ±0.002 inches. Because conventional high-precision optical leveling to this accuracy is very time consuming, an alternative method using an extended mercury-filled system has been developed at LRL. This permanently installed reference system is expected to be accurate within ±0.001 in. across the 1-mile diameter machine."
"Preliminary design studies have been carried out on the control system for an 800-Mev proton linear accelerator based on the use of an on-line digital computer as the main controlling element. The accelerator system is divided into fifty-two subsections or modules. A module has complete control of all the equipment associated with it. Selected data and monitoring signals are transmitted on a time-shared basis to a central control computer. The functions which the computer performs in the control of the accelerator may be classified into Operational Control, Operational Supervision, and Data Monitoring and Handling. The operator gives instructions to the computer through interrupt lines. Commands to the modules and displays for the operator time-share a common channel in the computer output system. Synchronization of the input and output data flow is controlled by the computer through a timing unit. A comparison has been made of the computer-based control system with a possible alternate system which does not use a computer. The computer replaces much of the control and data handling equipment required by the alternate system. As a result, the costs of the two systems are comparable. However, the computer-based system is preferable since it has many functional advantages over the alternate system."
"In this paper, we investigate the beam phase damping techniques employed in the ZGS. Phase oscillation frequencies have been measured at various times during acceleration. Response data taken on all systems involved with phase and radial position measurement have been used to calculate the phase and radial position responses. These results compare favorably with responses measured on the ZGS with accelerated beam."
"A time-sharing pulse multiplex system is described which will perform most of the control and monitoring functions for the Cornell 10-GeV electron synchrotron. Beyond the reduction in the number of cable runs and the more compact presentation of data at the control desk made possible by this system, the control language is also suited for communication with a computer. Operation of the accelerator under computer control is envisaged."
"Each klystron of the SLAC accelerator feeds four consecutive 10-foot accelerator sections through approximately 25 feet of earth shielding. The high power waveguide network which divides and guides the power to the four sections is adjusted so that the rf waves traveling within the accelerator sections are, at the end of each section, phased within ± two degrees of an ideal wave traveling at the velocity of light. A modulated reflection technique is used to compare the electrical phase length from a single input port through the four arms of the network during adjustment. The inclusion of the previously tuned accelerator sections in the network allows the total phase error to be minimized if careful control is exercised over the section terperatures. The measuring system, the reflection modulators, and the possible errors involved are discussed."
"We discuss the philosophy of an accelerator instrumentation system, and techniques which have been worked out for handling the various remote sensory and control functions required for proper operation of the accelerator. Lack of time prohibits more than incidental reference to philosophy of operation of the machine."
"Obtaining and keeping a satisfactory closed beam orbit is a major problem in the design of large accelerators. The system determining this orbit has many variables, these variables are distributed around the accelerator structure, and the existence of the beam is periodic. The designer may attempt to ensure satisfactory values for these variables by brute-force techniques such as ultra-precision construction, or he may apply the more subtle techniques of system control theory. In any case, he is dealing with a multivariable, interacting, sampled-data control problem. For the accelerators of the future, it may not be obvious that a solution exists. In fact, however, there are techniques whereby an equilibrium orbit may first be obtained and thereafter maintained in the presence of all expected disturbances, by means of an electro-mechanical control system employing beam-position monitors. These techniques further permit a wide variety of operator experiments, such as trying various orbits, or restricting the spatial harmonic content of magnet re-positioning. The purpose of this paper is to illustrate certain of these techniques. For clarity we will restrict our discussion to an elementary magnet-position control system for maintaining a closed orbit in the presence of magnet support settling. We assume the beam to be continously present, rather than to be discrete with time. This and other errors, such as magnet imperfections, and other control variables, such as backleg windings, would be handled in the same general way in a realistic design."
"The beam handling apparatus and its associated remote control arrangements are described for the NRL Cyclotron Beam Transport System. The need for reducing duplication of controls and power supplies for such a multi-beam-path facility resulted in the development of a rapid master selector system which can be programmed to accommodate the different beam path requirements. All ion optics and beam sensing components along any particular beam path can be activated from a single selector panel, and then individually controlled. The beam transport display, vacuum control display, and control console, are laid out in graphic form wherever feasible in an effort to present readout and control information concisely and continuously. Precision, versatility, modular construction, and ease of maintenance guided the mechanical and electrical design criteria. Design details and prototypes of beam stops, scanners, viewers, collimators, probes, and pumping stations, are discussed."
"The problem of fluctuating beam load in high-intensity cascade synchrotrons is discussed. A comparison is made of various methods of controlling rf system amplitude and phase fluctuations, with emphasis on feedback control as an economical method of stabilization. Equations describing performance are given, together with typical values for the 200 BeV machine at 3 × 1013 protons/pulse."
"The rf system of a proton synchrotron requires a frequency-modulated rf voltage to accelerate the particles. This paper discusses a unique method for frequency modulation of rf cavities by means of a \"Loud Speaker\" type of mechanical rf tuning system of the type originated by W. Schnell of CERN. A typical mechanically tuned rf system for a medium-energy high-repetition-rate particle accelerator is used to illustrate (a) the optimization of the moving portion of the tuner; (b) the control system and the response limits on the servo loop; (c) the mechanical response of the moving part and its effect on tuning accuracy."
"As part of a recent 9.6-million-dollar improvement and modernization program, an external proton beam was created for the Bevatron. During the period 1960 to 1963, the equipment necessary to produce this beam was designed, fabricated, and installed. The first external beam emerged from the Bevatron in February 1963."
"The basic synchronizing pulse in the P.P.A., tying the injection pulse and the R. F. to the magnetic field, is derived from the total current flowing through one of the Accelerator magnets. This pulse is generated in a biased toroidal coil wound on a supermalloy core, by the magnetic field H(t) created by the magnet current in a coaxial conductor. This method has provided us with a synchronization signal pulse with excellent long term stability and very little time-jitter. Part of the time-jitter may be attributed to the variations of dH/dt at the time of the reversal of the magnetization of the core due to variations of Imin in the magnets. A method has been developed to effectively cancel out the dH/dt effect in the supermalloy core."
"Typical illustrative examples are cited for the use of grid-controlled power tubes in the various classes of particle accelerators, e.g., cyclotrons, synchrocyclotrons, proton synchrotrons, electron synchrotrons, and linear accelerators, A state-of-the-art review of triode and tetrode power-tube technology is presented, together with some apparent trends in the design and development of new tubes. The use of triodes and tetrodes with integral cavity-resonators enhances the feasibility of their use at increasingly higher frequencies and/or power levels. In addition to their use as radiofrequency generators in particle accelerators, grid-controlled power tubes are also applicable as pulse modulators and amplitude regulators. The unique advantages of gridded power tubes for particle accelerators are discussed."
"This paper will review the evolution of high power klystrons and their applications in supplying rf energy for linear accelerators. Other types of possible rf sources were considered for SLAC, and the reasons for the selection of klystrons will be given. A brief review of klystron types in use for various accelerators will also be given, but the emphasis will be on the work done by Stanford and its subcontractors in developing klystrons capable of achieving peak powers in excess of 20 MW and average powers of 20 kW for use with the two-mile Stanford linear accelerator."
"In the frequency range between 200 and 1200 mcs, it is possible to use either klystrons or triodes for particle accelerator applications. This paper analyzes the bases of choice between these tube types from a systems point of view. It treats development status, initial and operating costs, reliability, system complexity, and all pertinent technical factors. The tentative specifications of the proton linear accelerator r-f system proposed by Los Alamos are used as a basis for comparison, and the conclusions reached on this system are extrapolated to higher and lower frequencies. It is concluded that either triodes or klystrons can be used in most, if not all, applications and that in almost every significant respect, in the frequency range considered, the klystron system is superior to the triode system."
"The factors influencing the choice of a RF accelerating structure for acceleration of protons to high energies in a high-current proton linac are reviewed. Characteristics of resonant periodic cavity chains are described, and the properties of two modes of operation, the π-mode and the π/2-mode, are discussed. The cloverleaf cavity chain, suitable for use in the π-mode, and four possible configurations suitable for use in the π/2-mode are described. A new accelerator coupling scheme usable in π/2-mode tank operation is also discussed. Studies of possible fabrication techniques, and the results of a fabricational program utilizing machined forgings to produce a cloverleaf chain are described. Sparking and electron acceleration tests are also briefly mentioned."
"The minimum required energy gain per turn for the 800-MeV Separated Orbit Cyclotron increases by a factor of about five from the injection radius to maximum orbit radius. Ordinary rectangular cavities operating in the TM11O mode can be used to provide the accelerating voltage; however, the cavity length is then about twice the distance between the inner and outer orbits (~18 ft). This length, and the rf power loss, can be reduced by shaping the cavity to excite in addition the TM210 and TM310 modes. Inclusion of these higher order modes shifts the maximum voltage from the midpoint of the cavity out toward the end, resulting in a shorter cavity and lower losses. The performance of a 1/4-scale model of the \"shaped rectangular cavity\" was found to agree quite well with theory. \"Wedge-shaped\" cavities were also investigated. In this cavity, which is a sector of a cylinder, the length of the accelerating gap increases with machine radius. The upper and lower boundaries of either type of cavity can be shaped to excite higher order Mlodes."
"As accelerators are developed to extend the frontiers of high energy physics, the complexity of their nature presents technological problems that need to be solved by extensive programs of research and development. The following reports on the results of one such program, the design and construction of the radio frequency accelerating system of the Argonne Zero Gradient Synchrotron. It describes the system requirements, the equipment that has been developed to fulfill these requirements, and the present performance of the system."
"The specifications on RF amplitude and phase in a proton linear accelerator are reviewed. The expected amplitude and phase disturbances during normal operation are discussed, showing the need for fast control of these parameters during the beam-on period. Analytical expressions are derived for the response of the RF amplitude and phase envelopes in an accelerator structure to amplitude or phase modulations in the drive. Experimental results verifying the theoretical expressions are presented."
"Electron analog tests of the 805-Mc cloverleaf accelerating structure being considered for the proposed Los Alamos linac have been made and are being extended. In the test which has been completed, 187-kev electrons, which are relatively easy to handle, are substituted for 343-Mev protons in the full-scale structure, which represents half of a prototype tank. The energy gain has been measured using a lens filter system, which acts as a decelerating device that returns the electrons to zero energy. The additional voltage needed on the lens filter to stop electrons which have been further accelerated by the cloverleaf model is a direct measure of the energy gain. The gain observed in the analog experiment corresponds to that expected from independent shunt resistance measurements."
"At the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, a computer program for calculating the nmgaetic and electric fields in resonant cavities has been developed. This program, LALA, will compute the fields in any cavity having cylindrical symmetry; arbitrary shapes for both drift tubes and external boundaries can be treated. Both π-mode and 2π-mode cavities can be handled. Calculations of several π-mode cavities at about 800 Mc/sec frequency have been carried out. At this frequency, for the π-mode, and in a cavity containing a drift tube, an external conducting boundary having a circular cross-section gives about a ten percent increase in ZT2 from the more normal rectangular external boundary."
"A one-cell plus two half-cell cloverleaf cavity similar to those suitable for a proton linear accelerator has been operated up to four times the design power to investigate sparking and heat distribution problems. This cavity was fabricated of oxygen-free high-conductivity copper forgings using techniques suitable for mass production. The power source used was a 100-kw, 800-Mc power amplifier running at 6% duty factor. No sustained sparking has been observed even at the highest power levels. Data taken on cavity clean up, equilibrating times, x-ray yield and resonant frequency versus power input are given. Details of the cavity fabrication, waveguide matching, and the waveguide vacuum window are discussed."
"The results of model studies and an equivalent circuit analysis of the operation of a chain of cavities in the /g=P//2 mode is given. Various /g=p//2 mode structures are described and the performance of models of these structures is discussed. Results of numerical solutions to an equivalent circuit applicable to the problem are also given, which include frequency error tolerances and coupling tolerances, for typical cases of interest. Multiple drive of a long resonator chain is also discussed."
"An 805-Mc 1-1/4-Mw amplifier has been constructed for test and evaluation as a power source for accelerator service. The amplifier has been designed for 6% duty factor and a maximum pulse length of 2 milliseconds. The amplifier is described and preliminary test results are presented."
"An economical systems approach directed toward the generation of long pulse, high average rf power for linear accelerators can be achieved via the use of the Amplitron, an efficient crossed-field amplifier of high phase stability, in conjunction with a newly developed Machlett switch tube. A 3 Gc Amplitron to provide 3 mw peak power (150 kW average power) at 50 /g=m/s pulse lengths is described. A cold secondary emission cathode of platinum is employed which enables a tube life of 10,000 hours to be guaranteed. Operating at a low anode voltage of 54 kV, the Amplitron is compatible with the ML-8549 super power switch tube; a hard tube modulator is thus employed. A single triode will switch a minimum of 10 Amplitrons. Not only is the cost of capital equipment drastically reduced by this unique, highly efficient combination of Amplitron-switch tube, but in addition, with grid control a fine adjustment on output power relative to the monitored beam energy can be made to achieve exceptionally high energy resolution in the beam."
"The radio frequency system of the Universit f Colorado 52\" cyclotron has been described at earlier stages in its evolution. The purpos of the present report is to describe a major change in the power amplifier and other changes in the control circuits, and to report operating experienc with the system. Table 1 lists some of the parameters of the system. The change in the power amplifier resulted in an appreciable simplification. Excluding the dee resonant circuit, there is now only one circuit in the rf system requiring remote tuning. The dee voltage control circuit incorporates current limiting protection for the power amplifier tubes to prevent damage to the system by inexperienced operators. The System is particularly easy to operate. After the operator has set the system up on the operating frequency and the dee voltag ontrol is set to the desired value, the dee voltage is turned on and off by means of two push buttons, and requires no other attention. Change in frequency require from one to ten minutes, depending on the distance that the short must be moved."
"This paper discusses the design of and material for klystron output windows to be used on the Stanford 20-GeV linear accelerator. Alternative window geometries are considered in view of the requirements of the SLAC application. Criteria for choice of window material are presented along with physical properties of several dielectric materials, and results of experimental evaluations of various window materials are described. The necessity for, and effectiveness of, techniques for reducing multipactor are discussed. Reasons are given for the choice of the present SLAC klystron window."
"Ferrites provide a reliable and flexible means of electronically tuning particle accelerator rf cavities without wasting a disproportionate amount of rf power. A systematic design procedure is presented for a ferrite tuned rf resonator. Radio frequency considerations, and use of salient ferrite parameters are the prime considerations of the design example. Using requirements set forth in the rf design, a bias supply design is discussed with respect to optimization of overall system design."
"This paper considers resonant coupling circuits useful in coupling RF energy to cyclotron RF resonators. Two specific circuits are considered. In the first circuit, the anode of the RF power tube is connected directly to the coupling loop. In the second, a length of transmission line connects the anode to the coupling loop. Inductive (loop) coupling is assumed for the sake of this presentation. With slight modification, the expressions derived apply equally well to capacitively coupled circuits."
"The Oak Ridge Isochronous Cyclotron has been operating since January 1963. Initial experience with the rf system was enlivened by destructive sparking and general instability at the upper end of the rf tuning range. A network of protective devices developed during the past two years almost eliminates spark damage and improves the stability of the system. A multistage rf voltage regulator was also developed and installed."
"A hard tube modulator designed to generate a 40-kilovolt pulse at 125 amperes for 2 milliseconds at 6% duty factor has been constructed. The rise and fall times will be controlled and the flat top regulated to program requirements. The Machlett NL-LPT 14 was used for the switch tube in this application utilizing magnetic focusing with a coarse grid structure and multiple cathode beams to achieve low grid drive with high plate efficiencies. Low grid drive allows simplification of the drive to one tube driven directly from the rectified rf control signal. The rf control signal at 4.8 Mc is coupled across the high voltage interface through a ferrite core transformer."
"Data are presented about the design and performance of high power uhf components used at DESY to accelerate electrons up to 6.5 Gev. Provisions and additional requirements for an extension of the beam energy up to 7.5 or 8 Gev are briefly described."
"The Grenoble RF system has been designed to provide the possibility of varying the frequency and energy of the cyclotron in operation. Two dees are used with two resonant cavities of a new conception. Tuning is achieved by displacement of a panel without sliding contacts. The RF energy is supplied by two power amplifiers built on top of these cavities and driven by a stable frequency synthetizer followed by a wide band distributed amplifier. Automatic tuning and voltage stabilization will be provided for ease of operation."
"A description of the Dynamitron high-current accelerator is given, illustrated with a photograph of a 3.0 Mv unit. Simplified circuit diagrams of the rectifier cascade are presented and performance data are compared with formulas for internal impedance and power consumption. Brief descriptions of the ion source and the beam tube are also given. Possibilities for future development of the accelerator and accessories are discussed. These include higher voltage, higher beam current, terminal pumping, terminal mass analysis, nanosecond beam pulsing, high intensity pulsing, high energy negative ion production and dual purpose tandem accelerators."
"From the impetus of world-wide acceptance, the tandem-accelerator technology is continuing to advance rapidly. In a broadly based group of research and development programs at HVEC, the following areas are already producing important results for future tandem performance and design: a. intense beams of positive and negative ions, as well as neutral particles; b. powerful sources of high-voltage direct current; c. injection studies for light and heavy ions; d. efficient charge-changing techniques and systems; e. high transmission of ion beams through the tandem; f. improved voltage insulation invacuum and high-pressure gases. The common objectives of these programs is to upgrade progressively the performance and scope of existing tandem designs, with an ultimate aim of providing the research scientist with a complete freedom in his choice of nuclear collisions."
"The following paper is an attempt to understand the effects which residual gas in an accelerator beam tube can have on the ion beam passing through it, and on certain other aspects of the accelerator's performance. The approach to the problem is felt to be the most fundamental. That is: all possible collision processes between injected beam and residual gas are examined (most of the cross-sections are quite well known experimentally1); a uniform axial electric field is assumed, together with a pressure gradient determined by kinetic theory equations for gas conductance assuming the source of gas to be the ion source. From this point on, it is in principle possible to calculate the resulting energy spectra of positive, neutral, and negative beam, as well as backstreaming electrons, evolved when only a positive ion beam is injected. In practice, only a numerical solution of the resulting equations can yield a solution. This solution is carried out, and the results are discussed."
"The suitability of the duoplasmatron and RF ion source for the production of low energy spread beams required for klystron bunching on Van de Graaff accelerators has been investigated. An increase in the proton and negative ion beams obtained from the duoplasmatron source can be achieved by extracting from the edges of the arc. The energy spread depends on the source conditions and varies from 8 to 50 eV. In RF sources the energy spread is influenced by the oscillator design and coupling and is less than 50 eV for a push-pull system."
"Tables of the estimated energies obtainable with three types of tandem accelerator are presented and together with a brief discussion of the problems of heavy ion generation and acceleration."
"An ion source for the production of well-collimated beams of doubly charged helium ions has been constructed, tested, and put into operation. It consists of an einzel lens to maintain a well-focussed beam and a crossed field analyzer that permits only one component of the beam to leave the source assembly. Beam currents of 1 to 2 microamperes of analyzed (He4)++ or (He3)++ ions are obtainable from the source assembly for acceleration in a Van de Graaff generator. Up to 0.25 microamperes of (He4)++ beam has been obtained at the entrance to the beam tubes after acceleration in a Van de Graaff generator and after momentum analysis, but this figure is subject to improvement. The source can also be used with H+, D+, and He+ ions. By applying an RF voltage to the deflector plates, it has been found possible to pulse the singly ionized beams. A pulsed beam of 1/2 μa of (He3)+ ions with a pulse width of 7 ns has been obtained. The design and installation of the source is described."
"This papey describes some aspects of a feasibility study on a high flux, large area 14 MeV neutron generator. The purpose of this study was to provide a preliminary design of a 14 MeV neutron generator capable of uniformly delivering a 1000-rad doselo a 6 x 6-foot target. A source of about 2 × 1013 14 MeV neutrons per second for four hours yields a 1000-rad dose with a uniformity of ten per cent to a 6 × 6-foot target located ten feet from the source. There are numerous charged particle reactions capable of yielding significant numbers of 14 MeV neutrons, but the requirement for mono-energetic 14 MeV neutrons precluded all reactions but the (d-T) reaction. The 14 MeV neutrons are produced by a 250 mA deuteron beam with 250 keV energy impinging on an 18-inch diameter tritiated-titanium target. The use of a large area tritiated-titanium target makes target cooling and depletion problems manageable."
"Investigations into the use of sulphur hexafluoride as an insulating gas for Van de Graaff accelerators have resulted in the decision to use it in the MP tandem accelerator presently being installed at Chalk River. Observations on a 3 megavolt vertical Van de Graaff and the EN 10 MeV tandem accelerator show that there are no problems due to the use of SF6 which cannot be solved with normal engineering procedures. An outline will be given of the physical and electrical properties, and a method of detecting and removing the corrosive breakdown products will be described. The gas handling system for the MP accelerator and a system for air removal will be described. An economic and functional comparison with a system using a 4:1 mixture of N2-CO2 is given."
"In this rectifier high-speed silicon diodes, etched circuit boards, and SF6 are combined in a style of construction that requires only the modest shop facilities of any typical small physics laboratory. This paper covers construction techniques, performance tests, electronic regulation, high-speed protection circuitry, and application of the rectifier to experimental equipment. The technique described can be extended to larger sizes providing several million volts."
"A wide-area electron beam scanner, which utilizes a single three-phase electromagnet has been designed and constructed for use with Grumman's 3 MV Van de Graaff accelerator. The uniformity of the beam scan has been measured, and between radii of 1 and 4½ inches has been found to be constant to within ±10 percent (%)."
"A heavy ion accelerator and beam transport system have been designed and constructed for studies of the interaction of radiation with matter. The air-insulated electrostatic accelerator was made to our specifications by Radiation Dynamics, Inc., with a beam energy continuously variable from 2-200 Kev. A modified duoplasmatron ion source provides ions of hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen and noble gases at beam currents as high as 5 ma. The accelerating potential is provided by an oil insulated power supply regulated to ± 0.01%. The beam transport system consists of a water-cooled insulated slit, magnetic spectrometer for beam definition of energy, charge state and isotopic composition, and a target chamber. A second magnetic spectrometer is available for further particle energy definition or for momentum analysis of the ion beam after interaction with a target. An extensive series of experiments for evaluating the accelerator performance are described, and results are reported for typical beam current density profiles, emittance areas, and maximum current densities attainable for different ions at various beam energies."
"As a result of work on a scheme to regulate the energy of the 3 Mv, Van de Graaff injector at this installation, it was found that several disturbing effects were produced upon closing the energy control feedback loop using a beam derived signal for modulation of the corona current. These undesirable effects, which are mainly a result of the long ion transit time and ion dispersion in the high pressure gas, seriously limited the manipulation and the analysis of the regulation problem. To circumvent these difficulties, it was decided to modulate the dark current (D. C. beam current) of the pulsed positive ion source by means of a variable intensity light signal transmitted to a photomultiplier tube in the high voltage terminal through a plexiglass pipe. This approach provided a rational transfer function permitting a more straight forward analysis of loop operation, a higher frequency response and greater reliability of operation all of which resulted in improved energy regulation from about ± 1.5 KV to about ± 500 V. The existing servo loop on the corona current was retained as a back-up element and it continues to handle the major portion of the slow energy regulation."
"An improved vacuum system, using combined Ion and Cryo-pumping techniques has been successfully used on Van de Graaff accelerator beam tubes. The pumping through-put of the Ion pumps has proved more than adequate in handling tube discharges. Base pressures are in the mid 10-7 torr range, while operating pressures have been improved by factors of 2-9 over Hg. diffusion pumped systems. System maintenance has been virtually eliminated. This paper describes Ion pump starting techniques, roughing systems and characteristic operation of Ion pumping and combined Ion and Cryo-pumping on a C.N. and E.N. accelerator."
"A short review is presented of the factors involved in the production of intense bursts of ions having nanosecond duration from tandem accelerators. For the specific example of the High Voltage Engineering Corporation's model MP tandem it is shown that, if velocity modulation is applied to the beam at the appropriate point and if a nondispersive arrangement of elements is used in the post-acceleration beam-transport system, the existing source and the injection optics should permit pulsed beams of the hydrogen isotopes to be available at several target positions with energies up to 20 MeV, burst widths of ~ lnS and peak intensities of ~ 500μA. The advantages are emphasized of having ions of variable energy available at the modulator and it is shown that this feature can permit the use of sources of large inherent energy spread and also the production of pulsed beams from a variety of heavy ions. The concept of multiple bunching is introduced and it is shown that the use of this technique would allow the production of burst intensities of several milliamperes and also ultra-short pulses (τ ~ 5 × 10-11 secs)."
"The ion optical problems of injecting ions into a tandem are reviewed and it is shown that signigicant improvements in transmission efficiency are to be expected if the diameter of the terminal stripping canal is increased and if the electrostatic field at the entrance to the accelerator is terminated in a controlled manner. Results with an experimental tandem accelerator are reported."
"The similarities and differences in magnet design of the presently existing multi-billion-volt accelerators are reviewed. Special emphasis is given to the requirements for alternating-gradient synchrotrons, particularly as exemplified by the Brookhaven AGS. Details include pole-contour shaping, choice of steel, coil design and power-supply requirements together with more general considerations of mechanical and electrical problems."
"Two unusual methods to make local changes in the magnetic field are described -- movable steel plugs at the centre and temperature-controlled Invar blocks at larger radii. The plugs have 2\" holes at the centre, which produce a dip in the magnetic field. This appears to have no serious effect on the beam. Results of beam extraction by H- ion stripping are reported."
"The power system for the ZGS ring magnet consists of a flywheel motor generator set and four groups of mercury arc rectifiers operating alternately as power rectifiers and power inverters. The system is shown schematically in Fig. 1."
"Magnet exciting coils which have been built at the Cambridge Electron Accelerator are described. The paper gives the indices used in designing the coils, and evaluates the properties of various types of insulation. The fields obtained in bending magnets and in quadrupole magnets have been measured, and the magnetic efficiencies of the flux circuits are recorded. Designs of some unique coils will be shown, which include the following: The exciting coils on the alternating gradient magnets of the accelerator, the coils on the choke that powers the accelerator, a bending magnet, a quadrupole magnet, and the large solenoid coil on a spark chamber magnet."
"A simple model is used to obtain, from basic field theory, expressions for the equivalent dynamic resistance and inductance of non-laminated iron core magnets when small amplitude sine waves modulate the D. C. magnet excitation. The approximations involved when applying the model equations to practical magnets are discussed. Deviation of calculated values from experimental data is of the order of 10% when the level of magnet excitation is low. Computed values of R and L may be used for field stability and ripple reduction studies."
"Cost studies of magnet designs for a 200-BeV synchrotron led to a novel coil design using cross sections of the conductor that differed for the inner and outer coil sides. The primary basis for estimating costs of magnet construction was the record of the actual costs of the Brookhaven AGS magnet. Determinations of optimum magnetic-flux densities and optimum current densities were made by minimizing the total costs of magnet cores, magnet coils, power supply, operating costs, magnet-support structure, correcting magnets, and tunnel enclosure. The studies depended significantly on the use of computer programs for predicting magnetic fields in air and in iron. Operating costs were capitalized by multiplying the cost per year by 10."
"The practicability of medium-sized super-conducting magnets has been demonstrated by the performance of the ANL 67 kG seven inch magnet system. This paper summarizes the design factors for that magnet, with special emphasis upon their implications for very large magnets. Various techniques for obtaining satisfactory current densities at a high level of stability and reliability are discussed. The clear implication of the results up to now is that very large supermagnets are indeed practical from a technical standpoint. The economic factors which must be carefully studied in order to establish the over-all practicality of large supermagnets are discussed."
"The Separated Orbit Cyclotron consists of individual sector magnets and rf cavities placed alternately in a circular arrangement. The beam is bent and focused by alternating gradient fields produced by pole tips with a minimum radial spacing of 4. 5 inches. Magnet design and construction problems are minimized by using the same pole-surface contour and the same mean-field intensity throughout the entire machine. All pole tips in one sector are mounted on a common yoke and driven by a common pair of coils. Shimming gaps are provided between the yoke and the pole tips so that the same mean field intensity can be achieved for all orbits. Only the azimuthal length of the poles is changed to maintain the correct focusing and bending properties of the magnets."
"The heart of the Argonne Zero Gradient Synchrotron is the large pulsed magnet approximately 180 ft in diameter. This magnet consists of eight curved sections or octants connected by long and short straight sections. It was designed to yield an external proton beam at magnetic fields up to 21. 5 kilogauss. Major considerations in the design, fabrication, testing, and installation of the magnet and its coils are discussed."
"An analytic method for designing pole face shape is presented, which gets the desired value of the field index in a given region, withaprescribed error. The method has three stages, corresponding to the successive computation of : - the ideal pole face shape and ideal equipotential set (previously developed by the author); - the equipotential set, taking into account fringing field effects, by means of conformal mapping; - the necessary corrections at the edges of the ideal pole face by means of conformal mapping, for obtaining the desired field distribution. As an example, the pole face shape for a 300-GeV synchrotron with n=5040 is computed. The method applies to every magnetic device having a radially constant field index."
"In variable-energy cyclotrons, saturation effects are always a problem; the use of air-core coils in lieu of iron as magnetic channels greatly reduces such difficulties. This paper describes the design of such a coil for the M.S.U. 55-MeV cyclotron. The coil includes the additional feature of incorporating a focusing gradient approximately equal in strength to a typical single-stage quadrupole."
"The magnetic field measurements in multipole magnetic fields, which are used to measure magnetic field parameters in the strong-focusing lenses for the Stanford two-mile linear accelerator, will be reviewed. Specifically, the theory and the measurement processes used to determine such important parameters as the magnetic center in multipoles, the length of the gradient fields, and the harmonic content in strong-focusing lenses will be described. The results of these accurate measurements will be related to the optical parameters of the multipole lenses."
"The fringing fields must be included in the determination of the effective length and field index of the P. P. A. weak focusing magnets. For this purpose, a null method was used to compare the magnetic field inside the gap with the fringing field integrated along a line perpendicular to the magnet end. Bz(r, t), the field component normal to the median plane varied between 0.26 and 13.9 Kgauss, at 20 cps. The measuring technique consisted in placing a short line dipole coil in the known and essentially two dimensional field (e. g.- sufficiently far from the end) and a long dipole coil through the fringing field free region. See Figure 1. The outputs of the two coils were summed into an electronic integrator. The output of the integrator was set to zero at a preselected phase of the magnet's field. Then, the azimuthal position of the coil pair was adjusted so that the output at this phase remained equal to zero when the coils were simultaneously inverted. This procedure was followed for different radial positions. Then another phase was selected. These measurements gave the effective length of the fringing fields to ±5 × 10-3 in., at B minimum, and ±5 × 10-4 in., at B maximum. The results were used to analyze and guide the design of correcting end pole pieces which produced the desired effective length and average field index. This work was performed on the P.P.A. full scale prototyped magnet."
"A description is made of the equipment used to determine the position and shape of the magnetic median surface (m.m.s.) of the P. P. A. weak focusing magnets far from the magnet ends. The reproducibility of the relative profiles of the m.m.s. was ±0.020 in. or better. The absolute location of the m.m.s. was uncertain to ±0.1 in. The effects of current sheets through the pole piece face windings and current loops on the front spacer as well as the profile of the m.m.s. were measured for many values of B(r, t), from B minimum to B maximum."
"The computer program SIBYL for computing the magnetic fields of magnets has been applied to computing the magnetic field of the Brookhaven AGS magnets and a Brookhaven septum magnet. This report presents the SIBYL computer results and compares them with experimentally measured results. The SIBYL computer program was applied to computing the magnetic field along the azimuthal center of the AGS magnets. This calculation gave the magnetic gradient along the azimuthal center of the magnet. In order to investigate the orbits of an accelerator, it is necessary to have information about the azimuthal variation of the magnetic field, or what is usually called the effective length of the magnet. The SIBYL computer program has been applied to the calculation of the effective length of AGS magnets."
"Computer programs have been used extensively in the design studies for a 200-BeV synchrotron. Two magnet codes, SIBYL (originated by Richard S. Christian, then of MURA) and TRIM (originated by Alan M. Winslow of LRL), are currently in use at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory, Berkeley, for static evaluation of two-dimensional magnets, including finite nonuniform permeability of the iron. In this paper are discussed some of the magnet problems for which the computer codes have been used, and the validity or accuracy of the results. Applications include shaping of the pole for good medium-field profiles and shaping of the pole base to reduce saturation effects. The comparison of calculated and measured fields of the CERN proton synchrotron magnet indicates the attainable quality of computer results. At 14.4 kG, within the limits of the vacuum chamber, the gradient computed by SIBYL was within 1% of the reported gradient."
"Magnet power-supply systems for both experimental and external-proton-beam (EPB) magnets used at the Bevatron are described as feedback control systems. Individual components contained in the systems are also described. The power-controlling component first used in the supplies was a three-phase magnetic amplifier. Silicon-controlled-rectifier (SCR) bridges are being used now. The requirements placed on the experimental magnet supply systems are ±0.1% current regulation with ±10% line-voltage perturbations occurring every pulse of the Bevatron. The EPB systems must track to at least ±0.1% a dynamic signal closely related to the proton beam energy. The performance criteria for EPB systems involve both error coefficients and transient response."
"A system is described for regulating current in electromagnets of more than 1 H inductance and requiring more than 50 kW of power. Current stability of better than 1 part in 50,000 has been realized using this system with the main magnet coils of the Argonne 60-inch cyclotron. Design is based on the classical approach in which current through the generator load is controlled by the current through its field rather than the presently popular use of series transistor design.It incorporates advantages of developments in the fields of feedback control and solid state devices to provide a simple, reliable and flexible system. During startup, to minimize overshoot and consequent hysteresis effects, a voltage loop is used for control. For precise, long term regulation, a current loop is added in which the current through the magnet is controlled by a pre-set current reference signal or a magnetic field reference signal obtained from a nuclear magnetic resonance probe."
"The 40 trim coil circuits of the 70-inch cyclotron being installed at the Naval Radiological Defense Laboratory are to be powered by a remote power supply which energizes 40 series-connected rheostat bridge circuits located on the cyclotron proper. The rheostat bridges will have a maximum power efficiency in excess of 80%."
"A solid state digital programmer of main ring magnet current at the Brookhaven Alternating Gradient Synchrotron."
"This paper describes a type of pulsed power supply which has been developed to energize deflection magnets with a field of either direction, for a right or left beam deflection, on a pulse-to-pulse basis, at repetition rates up to 360 pulses per second, and to recover most of the energy at the end of the pulse. The scheme consists basically of using ignitron tubes to switch energy stored in a capacitor bank to the pulsed magnet and back to the capacitor bank with relatively small losses, and using a dc supply to recharge the capacitor bank between pulses. Two capacitor banks, one charged to a positive polarity and the other to a negative polarity, with their associated ignitron tubes, are connected to one magnet to permit energizing the magnet with a field in either direction as desired on a pulse-to-pulse basis. The two capacitor banks can be charged to different voltages, thus permitting the deflection of two different energy beam pulses. The current pulse through the magnet is a one-cycle sine wave of the resonant frequency of the capacitance of the energy storage bank and the inductance of the magnet, with the timing of the pulse arranged such that the beam passes through the magnet at the peak of the sine wave. Regulation of the peak current in the magnets to the order of 0.1% has been achieved."
"A reliable system has been designed and built for the variable phase generation of pulses for the firing of ignitrons. These ignitrons rectify the ac output of a motor generator set for application of dc power to the main magnets of the Alternating Gradient Synchrotron at Brookhaven National Laboratory. It is now possible to shift the phase of the ignitron firing so that the current in the main magnets either increases in a linear manner (rectify mode), decreases in a linear manner (invert mode), or stays constant at any desired level (flat-top mode). In addition time interval pulses can be applied to the electronic peakers so that the main magnet current can be made to be any combination of the rectify, flat-top and invert modes. The electronic peakers have been in operation for a little over a year without a single failure."
"A description is given of the experimental facilities available at the 33 billion electron volt Alternating Gradient Synchrotron (AGS). Using complex beam gymnastics to spill beam on several targets, it is possible to run simultaneous experiments at a number of energy levels. The logistics in planning and setting up experiments are discussed and a summary of machine operations for the year 1964 is presented. Improvements to increase the beam intensity, reliability, and flexibility of the machine are outlined."
"The Princeton-Pennsylvania Accelerator at the Forrestal Research Center in Princeton operates at approximately 19 pulses per second. It quite consistently achieves 1 to 2 × 1010 protons per pulse and has been tuned up, in ways which we do not yet know how to reproduce, to an intensity of 5 to 6 × 1010 protons per pulse. Since August 1963 it has been serving simultaneously one to four prime users, plus a similar number of parasites, with beams of π and K mesons generated in an internal stationary target, usually platinum. Beam spill is achieved over a time of 2 to 4 msecs with some synchrotron oscillation structure and 100% RF structure. The latter has been used effectively in some experiments as a means for velocity selection in momentum analyzed beams. In addition to serving experiments, current major efforts of the staff are directed toward increasing stability and intensity, improving overall reliability in general and spill control in particular, preparing for an external proton beam, and accumulating equipment and experienced manpower for general support of experiments. Operating schedules and procedures will be described."
"The electron beam optics of the injector and microwave system of a two klystron, four-section linear accelerator with an unloaded beam energy of 140 MeV are discussed. The injector contains a mnicrowave chopper, a nanosecond inflector and a prebunching assembly so that a wide variety of different injection conditions can be presented to the machine. The waveguide sections are of non-uniform impedance design and each is energized by 8.5 megawatts peak r-f power. The design parameters of the waveguide sections are discussed together with the electron beam dynamics for various modes of injector operation, and some comparisons are made with measurements of the electron beam characteristics."
"Positrons produced by electrons peaked at energies of 9.6, 10.8, 11.7, 13.5, 15.0 and 16.6 MeV incident on a 0.8 radiation length gold target, were accelerated to 35 MeV. Their spectra were measured by means of a defining slit system, set for 2 percent energy transmission, located at the focal point of a 90° achronatic deflection system. Experimental values of conversion efficiency were fitted by the expression ϵ = 3.3 × 10-7 (E-4.7), where E is the energy of the incident electrons. The expected positron current for the highest repetition rate (720 pulses per second) is approximately 4 x 10-10 amperes over electron energies from 10 to 14 MeV."
"A 450 Mev electron 350 Mev positron linear accelerator system is described which has been designed as an injector for a storage ring. Several positron containment systems are considered and a stepped solenoidal magnetic field is chosen as optimum with the converter immersed in the high magnetic field. The parameters of this system are derived for maximum positron beam within specified energy spread and emittance. Performance is reported for initial operation at 40 Mev positron energy."
"It is proposed to construct a strong focusing ring of magnets whose function is to trap muons of 5 -10 Bev, and to study the interaction of the trapped particles in targets placed in the ring. It is shown that such a ring is especially suitable for use with the Stanford linear accelerator because of the hundred-fold increase in effective duty cycle. Other advantages of the scheme are that the muons are nearly mono-energetic, free of contamination, well collimated, and confined to a small beam well suited for performing scattering experiments. Typical parameters of the trapping ring are presented."
"Above the presently available energies, the center-of-mass energy per dollar of colliding beam accelerators becomes greater than that of single beam machines. As the energy increases, the economy of colliding beams becomes more pronounced. The difficulties in using colliding beams are typical of the difficulties accompanying each step made into a higher energy region. It is argued that colliding beams are usable and that the ability to enter an energy region otherwise unattainable justifies the difficulties. Preparing for a major colliding beam installation to come into operation around 1985 is suggested."
"The nature of charged particle - complex nuclei reaction cross sections suggests an isotope conversion accelerator in which a circulating beam kept at constant energy repeatedly traverses a thin target. Statistical deviations in target energy loss and emergent direction induce betatron and synchrotron oscillations. These limit the number of traversals before particle loss, but to useable values. However, the requirements of storage ring injection may reduce the advantage of this accelerator over conventional types."
"Since ions with small charge are produced more copiously from ion sources than are highly charged particles, it is proposed to construct a sector-focused cyclotron of large diameter to obtain heavy ions in much greater number and at higher energies than are available from existing cyclotrons or linacs. In addition, the machine will produce protons at 120 MeV and other light ions in excess of 120 MeV."
"Acceleration in the SOC is achieved by rf cavities placed at equal angular intervals about a ring of alternating gradient guide field magnets wrapped in a flat spiral. Coaxial cavities with two accelerating gaps and having voltage uniform with radius appear to be more economical than tapered rectangular cavities, for machines up to 100 MeV. Deuterons and alpha particles can also be accelerated in a proton machine by operating it on a harmonic number differing by a factor of two. About 5% adjustment in magnetic field is necessary to correct Hρ when ßp is twice ßd."
"This paper analyses a proposed accelerator, less than 1 meter long, capable of accelerating bunched electrons with a peak current of 100 A for a period of 50 rf cycles (20 nsec). The accelerator consists of an S-band disk-loaded circular waveguide, similar in design to the SLAC machine, incorporated into a waveguide resonant ring. Analysis of this system indicates that significant power buildup can occur if the length of the accelerator part of the ring is less than 1 meter. Further analysis of the power buildup and energy storage is made for a variety of rings having an accelerator section which is three, four, and five wavelengths long. Following the initial buildup of ring energy a beam of current bunched into 1/6th wavelength (60°), having a peak value of 100 A and an initial energy of 100 kV, is injected into the first cavity of the accelerator. Such a beam would extract half of the energy within the ring in approximately 20 nsec and have a nominal output energy of 10 MeV. By operating at 100°K, five such accelerators could be pumped by the same power source, thus increasing the output energy level to 50 MeV. The problem of handling a 100-A beam at low velocities is also investigated and a method utilizing space-charge neutralization by ionized gas is discussed."
"This paper discusses the electron beam optics design of a six klystron, twelve section, 450 Mev electron 350 Mev positron linear accelerator which has been designed as an injector for a storage ring. The beam centerline comprises three zones; namely, the injection system, the high current waveguide sections and the high energy gain sections. The injection system is arranged such that the beam from a pulsed diode source is chopped and prebunched at 2856 Mc to provide well defined tightly focussed short bunches of electrons for injection into the first accelerator section. A nanosecond inflection system, located between the chopper and prebuncher cavities, provides variable short pulse capability as well as 9.5 Mc modulation of the beam to produce a train of short pulses during each gun pulse. The first four waveguide sections are designed for an unloaded beam energy of 107.5 Mev, and 500 ma peak current at 60 Mev with 10 MW peak r-f power at each input coupler. A positron converter is located at the end of these sections and immediately prior to the high energy gain portion of the machine which comprises eight waveguides each of which is 504 cm in length and designed for an unloaded beam energy of 45.4 Mev with 10 MW peak r-f input power. Details of the microwave design parameters and some electron beam characteristics are presented together with preliminary measurements of actual beam performance."
"The nuclear physics research facilities at NRL are presently being expanded by the addition of a Sector-Focusing Cyclotron Facility. The Cyclotron is essentially a copy of the Oak Ridge Isochronous Cyclotron and much of the facility concept is patterned after the Oak Ridge Installation. A beam optics system was designed that satisfied the specified criteria as to image quality, and then a building design was coupled to this beam optics system. Included in the facility are a cyclotron and beam preparation vault, and three experimental rooms which are sufficiently well shielded from each other and from the cyclotron vault, so that personnel have access to any two experimental areas while the third is utilizing the cyclotron beam. Eleven separate beam paths will permit set-up of many different experiments simultaneously. The main experimental wing of the building also includes two experimental staging areas, a control room, and a data accumulation room. A laboratory-office wing provides space for check-out of various apparatus, a target preparation room, a machine shop, a darkroom, counting rooms, a library, a conference room, and offices for the staff. The facility will be used to study nuclear interaction mechanisms, polarization phenomena, nuclear structure, heavy ion, and neutron physics, as well as various areas of applied research."
"The design of the U. S. Naval Radiological Defense Laboratory's (USNRDL) cyclotron for the production of subnanosecond, high intensity, charged particle beam pulses for neutron time-of-flight experiments, is described. Klystron bunching of the extracted cyclotron beam is possible for short bunching path lengths between cyclotron and target but it demands a beam of large energy spread -- greater than 1%. A method of linearizing the effect of the sinusoidally varying, accelerating potential is described, and it is shown that klystron beam bunching is possible with reduced beam energy spread. It is seen that the cyclotron competes with single stage, dc accelerators for neutron time-of-flight experimentation and will furnish large beam currents at higher energies in excess of the beam currents contemplated for the dc tandem machines."
"The laboratory requires a large amount of electric power to produce the high energy particles and perform the physics research. This makes it important to operate the power system with maximum efficiency and economy. This paper discusses the problems and actions taken to accomplish these objectives."
"This paper describes a proposed target facility for use in a program of electron scattering experiments at the Naval Research Laboratory electron linear accelerator on inelastic electron scattering experiments on low atomic number elements as H1, H2, H3, He3 and He4, all of which in the liquid or solid state provide compact, high density, well localized, targets of pure elements. Problems discussed are: (a) electron energy dissipation in cryogenic targets by continuous electron beams of 5-60 MeV energy, (b) target design dimensions such as target diameter to beam diameter ratios, permitting maximum incident beam current, (c) treatment of pulsed electron beams using \"instantaneous line source theory\" in estimation of maximum permissible current densities, (d) vapor production and mechanical shock in targets based in part on bubble chamber theory, and (e) thermal radiation into the target shields from the scattering chamber wall."
"In order to make effective use of the NRL Isochronous Cyclotron we are designing an efficient multipurpose data collection and data handling facility. The central part of this system is a small general purpose computer with all digital data collection devices (examples are: timers, scalers, frequency meters, and digital voltmeters) feeding directly into the computer, thus eliminating a vast amount of time-consuming and error-causing paper work. The computer will also be used for multi-parameter and single-parameter multichannel analysis with ADC's feeding the computer memory directly. For rapid display of data, and any desired graphical display, a computer controlled CRT display will be used. A light pen will be used to select and modify information in the computer memory. The standard input-output equipment will consist of a typewriter, paper tape read/punch unit, two magnetic tape units, a graph plotter, and a fast on-line printer. The on-line time will be time shared between the (random) data collection and data processing and/or display. To make such concurrent operations possible a priority interrupt system will be used, with a higher priority system taking over computer control from a lower priority operation."
"Flexibility in the design of Accelerator Housings is achieved by: 1. Proper site selection and planning; 2. Study of critical areas of design; 3. Proper selection of shielding materials; 4. Maximum use of non specialized spaces; 5. Correct selection of crane capacity and coverage; 6. Location of offices, laboratories and utilities to facilitate expansion; and 7. Provision of adequate space for counting room expansion. Proposals are presented for building construction techniques and arrangements that facilitate future expansion and modification of an accelerator housing. Recommendations are presented for shielding techniques which permit flexibility. Relationships between flexibility and cost are discussed for both building and shielding construction."
"Cost control for accelerator engineering involves task definition, planning related expenditures, measuring progress, tabulation of costs and projections, and, most important of all, follow-up for corrections. Accelerator engineering costs are best regulated by the accelerator engineer, since those who are in any way detached from the work cannot exercise the most effective control. The accelerator engineer should be assisted by providing him with an effective system, appropriate forms and reports, and administrative support."
"Various means have been developed to simulate micrometeorites in the laboratory. A system is described here which is based on the Wideroe heavy ion accelerator principle. Conductive charged particles in the 0.1 to 5 micron diameter size range are accelerated in much the same manner as are heavy ions. The final velocities so far obtained have been 10.8 kilometers/sec. This accelerator has been used to study the damage effects of hypervelocity particles to optical surfaces. The system provides a good simulation of the lower velocity type of cosmic dust most frequently encountered in space. The microparticle linear accelerator offers some advantages over the electrostatic type. However, all types of electric field accelerators used for hypervelocity work are limited to the smaller microparticle sizes due to the very large charge the particle must support."
"The detection equipment installed in the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) is described. Most measurement techniques and equipment are similar to those of other synchrotrons with the possible exception of fluorescent screens of high transmission viewed by storage TV systems. We find these useful for a variety of diagnostic techniques at injection, such as measurement of equilibrium orbits, median plane, injection angles, and angular spreads. The value of these techniques, which depend upon the focussing properties of the synchrotron, lies in their ability to separate magnet effects from injection effects. These techniques are described in some detail. Also discussed briefly are some of the problems that we have encountered, such as unbalanced ground currents, tune variation during the accelerating cycle, and a vertical instability with a sharp intensity threshold."
"A sufficient stability condition for uniform coasting beams in cyclic particle accelerators is derived from Neil and Sessler's dispersion equation. Specific conditions are worked out for various injection patterns. The instability threshold depends fairly strongly upon the particle density distribution across the tank, and upon whether operation is below or above transition energy. For the latter case, the optimum distribution (allowing the largest number of particles in the beam) is derived. The possibility is investigated, using Nyquist diagrams, of injecting more particles by operating in a superstable state - one which depends for its stability on the low resistance of the tank walls. It is shown that any practical improvement by this means is probably illusory."
"The interaction of the bunched particle beam in a linear accelerator with the waveguide structure produces several effects which go under the general name of beam-loading. These effects include reduction, redistribution, and phase shift of the rf field in the waveguide, changes in the tuning of the waveguide structure, excitation of other waveguide modes, and various transient phenomena. A discussion of these various effects and methods for their calculation will be presented."
"It is well known that when the magnetic focusing field at the input of an electron linac increases the output accelerated current does not increase regularly. Such a behaviour is shown to be connected with rotations, in the output plane of the linac, of the center of charges of the beam. These rotations have been displayed experimentally by means of a beam position monitoring system and related to the transverse momentum transferred to the beam by the spurious TM11 mode existing in the mode converter which changes at the input of the Saclay linac, the TE01 mode from the rectangular waveguide into a TM01 mode on the accelerator circular waveguide."
"The theory of the interaction of a beam with transverse modes in a standing wave linear accelerator is summarized and applied to the design parameters for recently proposed proton linacs. Approximate results are derived for the limiting current and these are checked and extended by detailed numerical calculation of the build-up of transverse fields. For the contemplated linacs, the current limit is of the order of 10 amperes, safely above the design values."
"A comprehensive computer program for a high-current accelerator operating in the 100 ampere/ 10 MeV range has been developed. The accelerator is a narrow-bandwidth, coupled-cavity device with or without feedback between input and output cavities. Equations for the transient behavior of both the pumped or buildup pnase and the accelerator phase have been programmed to allow for a wide range of design parameters such as number of cavities, cavity-cavity coupling, beam-cavity coupling, cavity loss or Q, stagger tuned cavities, input-output cavity coupling, and injected current as a function of timne. The sinusoidal electric field in each cavity is expanded with the resonant modes, excited by the beam and boundary-matching magnetic current on the center holes. The irrotational field is computed as the unretarded Coulomb field of the beam as a collection of discs and their images. Feedback and feedforward waves in a waveguide which couples input and output cavities are represented by cutoff and propagating waveguide modes decomposed into Fourier components. Some computational properties of the program are discussed."
"A discussion of factors affecting the radial confinement of the beam in a waveguide proton linac is given. Simple analytic expressions are developed which check with computer results. Consideration of radial acceptance, tolerance to errors, cost, length, and complexity, seems to indicate that doublet magnetic lenses are preferable to triplets."
"The electrical behavior of long linac tanks can be represented by the behavior of a finite chain of coupled harmonic oscillators.1 A theory is given of chains of oscillators of two kinds, which is appropriate for semi-resonant or resonant coupling structures.2 The perturbation theory given previously is extended to predict the effects of errors in the coupling cells and in the main cells.2 Some advantages of π/2 mode operation of the double chain are discussed. A new accelerating scheme is presented in which the coupling structures are resonant and the tanks are resonantly coupled. The theory, numerical calculations, and measurements on laboratory models3 all indicate that tolerances on power amplifier voltage and phase can be relaxed by as much as a factor of five."
"A computer program has been developed for finding an optical matching system of particle beams in the transverse (x-x', y-y') phase space. It is well-known that the two sets of symmetric quadrupole triplets could be easily obtained for this purpose starting from a thin lens approximation. However, a system composed of only four lenses (with a fixed geometry) is often desirable in order to save the available space. Four simultaneous algebraic equations for four unknowns (magnet strength) are solved numerically starting from a thin lens approximation and the solutions are improved successively. In general, the program finds the strength of each magnet in less than one minute. (IBM 7094.) Maximum beam excursion is also computed to find the best solution when there are several possible combinations."
"Methods of calculating space charge effects which are presently available have as their basis the assumption of uniform charge density over the beam cross section. In design of a high intensity beam transport system, it is important to know how sensitive parameters of the design are to this assumption. This question has been investigated by propagating phase plots along the beam axis for space charge fields from both a uniform charge density and a charge density obeying a normal distribution. Normalization was such that the field from the uniform density was a least-squares fit to the field from the charge density of normal distribution. Results of computations for 20 mA of 3.0 MeV protons indicate that while the phase plot showed considerable distortion from effects of the normal charge density, parameters of the plot which effect design of a transport system were not changed appreciably. From these calculations it seems that unless close matching of an acceptance phase plot is imperative, design of a transport system is relatively insensitive to charge distribution in the beam."
"A method for numerical beam dynamics studies of drift tube type linear accelerators using electromagnetic fields similar to those encountered in actual machines is presented. Results of calculations for a 90 mev accelerator are given and comparisons made with similar calculations in which the axial electric field is assumed spatially constant within the accelerating gap."
"The physical arrangement of the magnets and rf cavities in a Separated Orbit Cyclotron are described, and the equations of motion and their solution are discussed. The stability limits are determined for triplet and singlet lens systems, and the choice of operating values to give maximum acceptance are examined. The treatment of random misalignment errors of the magnets is described; the six types of errors whose relative strengths are compared lead to bench alignment errors of ~l mil. The alignment of adjacent lenses and alignment over a distance long compared with a betatron oscillation wavelength are shown, however, to have relatively relaxed tolerances."
"In linear accelerators with drift tubes the bunching of particles around the synchronous one is obtained at the expense of focusing. Nevertheless, it is possible to ensure simultaneous radial and axial stabilities if, in the accelerating gaps, we abandon the cylindrical symmetry. If the potential function in a gap between two drift-tubes has quadrupolar symmetry, it is possible, with certain assumptionsabout the gap geometry, to expand this function as a double Fourier series. Thus we are able to calculate the transfer matrix from one drift tube to the next. Formulae giving axial and radial R. F. impulses, obtained in the thin-lens approximation for the quadrupole symmetry planes are easily applicable. The effect of the R.F. is due to \"circular\" and \"quadrupolar\" impulses; the former is independent of the meridian plane, whereas the sign of tne latter changes from one quadrupolar symmetry plane to the other. Tne radial and axial motions of the particles cease to be independent. The chosen potential functiorn enables us to calculate the second order transfer elements containing the coupling terms between the two degrees of freedom."
"It has been shown in the preceding paper tnat focusing in a linear accelerator with drift tubes can be achieved if the shape of the extremities of the drift tubes is suitably chosen(l). We have set out to build a low energy prototype of an ion accelerator in which the results obtained theoritically are exploited . With the focusing system described above, a current gain of about ten times to the unfocused machine was obtained. Without any preliminary bunching device, the output to input current ratio is as high as 10% in good agreement with theory."
"The improvement of accelerators for greater beam intensity brings on problems of high induced radioactivity in parts and hardware associated with these machines. Data showing the magnitude of induced activity at several existing installations are tabulated to forecast the ultimate levels. Magnitudes of several hundred R/hr. are predicted, thus showing the need for a logical approach to the problem in new machine design parameters and in remote handling. The proposed modifications of present accelerators are presented showing the different approaches taken and the philosophy upon which their criteria are based. Design in some cases is based upon the ultimate activity levels expected, while others plan to make improvements as the activity grows. Regardless of the approach, definite design features are mandatory to make them compatible to remote handling. These features take into account the inaccessibility to the activated equipment and the need for rapid assembly and disassembly. Modular design of apparatus with quick disconnect means for both the mechanical and electrical coupling is presented to fulfill the above needs. A review is made of the existing remote handling equipment and systems showing their shortcomings or possible application to accelerator work. This is supplemented with an explanation of what features must be present in remote handling systems to make them usable for accelerator use. Manipulators and remote handling devices used in hot cells are designed for operation within the confines of limited and selected space."
"Studies of residual radiation levels to be encountered in high beam intensity accelerators are reported. Calculated residual radiation decay curves are compared with experimental data. Previously reported work with 600-MeV protons is extended to a wider range of bombardment times. The experimental and calculated decay curves for C, Al, Fe, and Cu are compared by normalizing the intensities of the 22Na activity in the aluminum. The experimental and calculated decay curves agree within a factor of 2 or 3 over a range of cooling times for bombardment times that range from 3 hrs to 2 years. Data obtained from one group of samples exposed to 19 - 26 GeV protons for 5 months are also compared with the calculated decay curves."
"The energy and average power of the R.P.I. electron linear accelerator (Linac) are great enough that radioactive gases are produced. During two years of operation 150 and 13N have been detected, identified, and measured quantitatively. This paper describes the air handling and monitoring systems, measurement of the gaseous activities, concentration guides developed at R.P.I. for these isotopes, and operating procedures used for control of the activity."
"Magnet coil insulation consists of inorganic materials such as glass fiber, fillers, and organic thermosetting resins. Most of the usual insulation systems are damaged if subjected to high radiation levels such as those anticipated at the Stanford Linear Accelerator, where the expected dose rate may be as high as 1011 rads per year. This paper describes tests carried out at SLAC in which several commercially available insulations were found to deteriorate severely at total absorbed doses of as low as 1010 rads. Changes in molecular structure induced by radiation effects and degradation of electrical and mechanical properties are discussed. The development and testing of an organic insulation using pure Al2O3 filler which retained about 25% of its original strength at an absorbed radiation level of 3.25×1014 ergs.gr-l will be described. This insulation required minor changes in the usual winding and potting technique prevalent in the industry."
"This paper concerns the safety and protection of personnel associated with high energy accelerators with special emphasis on the radiation hazards involved. General philosophies are considered and the personnel security system existing at the 33 BeV Alternating Gradient Synchrotron at Brookhaven National Laboratory is discussed in some detail."
"The high vacuum requirements of the Stanford Two-Mile Linear Electron Accelerator plus the radiation produced by electron acceleration have made it necessary to design special vacuum and isolation components. Two of these are special purpose valves capable of operating in a vacuum system at 10-8 torr, and the third is a group of quick-disconnect couplings used for component installation in the beam switchyard area of the accelerator. One valve is an all-metal, 50-megawatt, S-band microwave valve used to isolate an evacuated rectangular waveguide feed system from exposure to air during the replacement of a klystron drive tube for the accelerator. The valve is built with a remeltable indium seal which provides for leak rates on closure below 24 × 10-8 std. cc He/sec. The second valve is a fast-acting unit that was designed for beam axis application within the disk-loaded waveguide accelerator structure. This valve also has an indium seal that is remotely remeltable and has a measured closing time of nine milliseconds. The group of quick-disconnect couplings, which are 6, 10 and 12-inch pipe sizes, are remotely operable, non-elastomer couplings used in the vacuum chamber system of the beam switchyard. The radiation intensity in this area is sufficient to make elastomer seals impractical and to require that replacement of switchyard components be done quickly and remotely. Indium is also used as a reusable seal for these couplings and can be re-formed mechanically to extend seal life."
"The vacuum system of the Stanford two-mile linear accelerator has been designed as nominally a \"very high\" vacuum system operating in the 10-6 to 10-8 torr region. Main vacuum pumps are of the getter-ion type; the pumps are connected to an allmetal system fabricated of stainless steel except for viton \"O\" rings in the valve seats. The accelerator structure evacuated by this system consists of OFHC copper rectangular and disk-loaded waveguides with stainless steel flanges connecting the various portions of the structure. For completeness, a brief description of the vacuum system for the beam switchyard at the end of the accelerator is included because it is an integral part of the overall system. Conventional diffusion pumps are used to maintain pressures of 10-4 to 10-5 torr, i. e., nominally \"high\" vacuum."
"Since the P.P.A. has a proton current of 1012, per second at 3 Bev., a careful study was made of its shielding requirements before construction began. The resulting design has been proven to possess excellent attenuation characteristics and flexibility of adaptation for varying demands by experiments. The personnel dosimetry is based on Bonner spheres and T.E. ion chambers as well as the more conventional ones. A comparison and discussion of measurements made with the two types of detectors mentioned is made. Results of dose, particle flux and radioactivation measurements inside and outside the main shield, are presented."
"This paper describes general types of shielding doors and the drive systems for opening and closing them. It compares estimated costs of the different types of doors based on factors they have in common. It describes a number of shielding doors designed and built at Lawrence Radiation Laboratory. These include a vertically rising door actuated by a hydraulic cylinder in a pit beneath it, a rotating slotted-barrel door, a swinging door, and a number of more or less typical sliding doors. Some of the problems involved in the design and use of these doors are discussed. Actual costs for a number of doors are given."
"For five years a neutron detection system (utilizing BF3 detectors with moderators and vacuum tube amplifiers and count-rate circuits) has been in useful service at the Los Alamos large Van de Graaff accelerator. During this time difficulties with the need for increasing counting rate capability as well as component failures have led to a desire for improvement. In addition, the detectors were sensitive to thermal neutrons to an extent which made it difficult to get a legitimate measure of biological danger with various neutron spectra. An improved system was developed to give a more believable measure of biological danger (referred to \"first collision tissue damage\" described in NBS Handbook 633). The system was to be made more reliable through the minimization of vacuum tubes and relays. The problem of indicating varying levels of neutron flux without changing ranges was solved by a logarithmic count rate meter with a range from 1-5000 mrem/hour. The indicating system was to be expanded to give rapid visual information at the control room and other locations as well as audio alarms in the experimental area. By transistorizing all the electronic circuits and using only low voltages, both reliability and safety is improved. A gamma system, with a range from .01 to 10 r/hour, utilizing ionization chambers and an electrometer tube, is an integral part of the radiation system. It energizes the same alarm system as the neutron detectors. The system block diagram is shown in Fig. 1."
"Circuitry has been designed and constructed such that conveyor motion past a scanned Linear Accelerator beam is automatically regulated as a function of average beam current. Using this, the ratio of average current to conveyor speed can be held constant, thereby eliminating beam current variation as a source of error in irradiation processing. In the system, the ratio of current to conveyor speed is computed, multiplied by a factor inversely proportional to the scan height, and displayed on a digital voltmeter. The current signal is derived from a secondary emission monitor within the accelerator, while the conveyor speed is sensed by a tachometer coupled with the conveyor drive assembly. The beam scan is detected by a pair of adjustable sensor bars which are perpendicular to the plane of scan."
"The Zero Gradient Synchrotron is a weak focusing machine. This makes possible multiturn injection which results in a high intensity beam. Ideally, all of the space between the magnet pole faces and the magnet coil would be utilized for beam at injection. This need requires the vacuum chamber for the machine to have a large vertical aperture across a broad radial width. The chamber of the ring magnet vacuum system is a closed ringabout 560 ft in circumference (Fig. 1). Approximately three-fourths of this chamber length is within the eight magnet sections where the minimum cross-section exists (32 in. wide by 5-1/4in. high). The closed magnet design restricts the pumps to positions on the straight section boxes between magnets, thus spacing these pumping stations approximately 70ft apart. Space limitations, eddy currentproblems, and heat problems determined the design approach to the vacuum chamber within each of the eight ring magnets. The resulting design necessitates the need for both an inner and outer chamber, since the inner (high vacuum chamber) design cannot withstand a pressure differential of one atmosphere."
"Design parameters for accelerator vacuum systems are studied with reference to the requirements which appear in modern strong-focusing machines. The two major problems considered are restrictions in both pumpdown time and system base pressure created by trends toward very small apertures. Basic kinetic equations are used in a method of estimating performance. Assuming a time-dependent outgassing rate from vacuum chamber walls, equations are offered for predicting progression of evacuation and base pressure distribution throughout the system. Results from small-scale experimental systems are reported and compared with predicted performance. Influence of various pumping systems on prediction is discussed, and design recommendations are offered."
"The thirty accelerator sectors (each 330 feet long) of the two-mile machine will be evacuated with sputter-ion pumps to pressures low enough to limit rf breakdown and multipactor problems. After the beam leaves the accelerator it will be \"switched\" by pulsed magnets to one or more of the experimental areas through the 1000-foot beam switchyard. Due to the nature of the equipment in the beam switchyard and the requirements for inexpensive, non-elastomeric, remotely operable couplings, there will be a high probability for virtual and real leaks and a consequent need for continuous high throughput pumping. Oil diffusion pumps are therefore used to evacuate the four branching beam tubes of the beam switchyard. Some kind of in-line oil trap is needed to separate the clean, low pressure (10-7 torr), ion-pumped accelerator from the oil-pumped (10-4 torr) beam switchyard end of the machine. This trap should limit the amount of oil and organic fractions passing back through to the accelerator and should provide some of the impedance necessary to obtain the three-order-of-magnitude pressure difference between accelerator and switchyard. The pressure difference will be maintained by differentially pumping on each of two in-line vacuum impedances. One of these impedances will be a standard 10-foot section of disk-loaded waveguide and will act as an oil trap. When refrigerated, such a trap had measured transmission probabilities of 10-9 to 10-6 for heavy hydrocarbons."
"A stainless steel, six-inch valve capable of closing in approximately 10 milliseconds has been developed at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. The valve will be automatically and remotely operable, allowing it to be used in the SLAC beam switchyard area where high radiation levels will prohibit personnel access. The problems of triggering mechanical release, valve gate acceleration and deceleration, and vacuum sealing without elastomers appear to be solved. The knowledge gained relating to this type of gate valve predicts the future design of a valve with a 24-inch opening, capable of operating in time intervals of five to six milliseconds."
"Some high intensity ion sources, applicable for particle accelerators, are evaluated in terms of extracted beam emittance and source \"brightness\". Specifically recent results obtained with the duoplasmatron ion source, with and without large plasma expansion cup, are given. It is indicated that a high intensity \"rectilinear\" ion beam may be obtained from an expanded plasma with a high gradient accelerator structure. Recent approaches to air insulated columns are given, mainly related to the BNL preaccelerator design."
"For most applications, the use of grids in focusing elements can improve beam current densities per unit solid angle by a factor of 10 or more. The coupled problems of high grid transparency and long grid life have limited their usefulness in accelerator systems. The development of machined grids with a 10 fold increase in life expectance will be described. These grids are for the Einzel lens of the ORNL Nanosecond Pulser in which wire mesh grids had an average life to failure of 75 hrs. The grids were machined by electrical discharge (Elox) techniques in a sheet of tungsten or molybdenum. Transparencies as high as 84% have been obtained. The sheets can be pre-shaped to compensate for residual spherical aberrations in the lens. Shaped grids have shown further increases of beam brilliance of 30-40%. For fast pulsing operating in which there is no space charge neutralization, beam brilliance figures of 1 amp per sq cm per steradian have been obtained with beam currents up to 3 mA."
"A hot cathode oscillatory discharge source was investigated for d.c. operation to determine the charge-state yield of ions for carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, neon and argon gases and to determine the parameters that effected these yields and source stability. Source principles and construction are similar to that reported by Morosov, Papineau, and Basile."
"An expanded plasma ion source is described which generates high current negative ion beams of hydrogen (~lmA) and helium (~3 μA). Also presented is preliminary data for a diode ion source where useful currents of many ion species, including O-, Al-, Cl-, Cu-, Bi-, (UFn)-, have been obtained. A description of a negative ion injector specifically designed for the injection of high currents into tandem accelerators is outlined."
"Vacuum, high pressure gases and solid dielectrics, which are used extensively for the insulation of high voltages in particle accelerators, are discussed. Examples are given of high voltage technology applied to the acceleration of micron size particles and to the production of intense pulses of radiation of nanosecond duration."
"The general problems of injection into particle accelerators are discussed with the criteria for the choice of injection parameters emphasized. Examples are given of the injection system designed for a 200-BeV proton synchrotron."
"The injector for the Stanford Two-Mile Linear Accelerator has been designed to achieve optimum bunching, optimum beam optics and flexible operational control of beam parameters. A test injector has achieved 5-degree bunching and 10-2 mc-cm area in the X-PX plane."
"The production of negative hydrogen ions (H-) by an ion source similar to that employed in many cyclotrons has been studied. The negative ions are extracted directly from the arc plasma in a direction normal to the magnetic field without use of a charge-exchange medium. In an attempt to improve the negative-ion yield, the arc-discharge chamber has been modified to conform to assumptions made as to the probable formation mechanism of the observed negative ions. Outputs of negative hydrogen ions in ex cess of 5 mA have been obtained. Ion-source operating parameters are discussed, as well as considerations for the utilization of this discharge geometry by negative-ion cyclotrons."
"A facility has been set up for development and testing of cyclotron ion sources with special emphasis on capability for rapid phase-space density measurements. (As has been shown1 the ultimate resolution which can be achieved in nuclear reaction experiments is determined by this density.) Ions from the test source are accelerated into a 60 kV D. C. \"dee\" and magnetically deflected thru 180°. A system of remotely adjustable slits are mounted inside the dee including: (a) an adjustable slit directly behind the puller to define the radial width and position of the beam, (b) a pair of adjustable slits located 90° from the puller, one defining the radial position, the other the vertical position of the beam and (c) an adjustable current collecting probe located at 180°. In order to permit testing of sources for heavy ions, a considerably larger magnetic field has been provided than is required for conventional sources (protons, deuterons, alphas). Ions with e/m ranging down to 1/30 can be deflected 180° with the dee potential at the full 60 kV; ions with lower e/m can be tested at reduced voltage. Polarities of both magnetic field and dee potential are reversible to allow convenient study of negative ion emission when desired."
"Use of cyclotron beams for time-of-flight experiments requires the production of high-intensity ion bursts of very short time duration. A lower limit for obtaining short pulses of a defined energy spread is set by the intrinsic energy-time spread of the ion beam. The factors determining this spread are investigated. Central-region design features facilitating the formation of nanosecond pulses in the NRDL cyclotron are discussed, and results of detailed calculations on the magnitude of the intrinsic energy-time spread are presented."
"An injection system is described which modulates the electron beam of the EG&G L-band linear accelerator for a time as short as one rf period. Thus modulated, the accelerated electrons are further grouped into a bunch about 40 picoseconds long. The injected pulse is synchronized with the microwave frequency, producing constant, repetitive beam pulses. The measured pulse width is 100 picoseconds, determined by the response of the sampling oscilloscope."
"The Cambridge Electron Accelerator uses an 'S' band (2854.56 MHz) linac as an injector, and a UHF (475.70 MHz) synchrotron rf acceleration system. A chopper is used to eliminate five out of the six linac bunches, and the sixth bunch can be injected at the optimum phase with respect to the synchrotron rf voltage. This reduces synchrotron oscillation, and reduces beam loading on the rf, thus allowing for much larger accelerated currents. The linac uses constant phase velocity waveguides (vp=c). The energy of the electrons introduced into the linac determines the trapping efficiency and the phase angle of the electron bunch with respect to the linac traveling wave. The chopper, situated between the gun and the linac waveguide, is a cylindrical 475.76 MHz cavity operating in the TM010 mode. It provides one half of the injection voltage(70 kv) for the selected electrons. The other half is provided by the gun pulse. Besides increasing the synchrotron intensity, the chopper system produced many other additional benefits."
"A 45° inflector for the off-axis injectors is described. The system features second-order isochronous corrections to preserve accelerator bunch length. The correction is made with a combination sextupole-quadrupole, the design for which is also included."
"High intensities pose new problems in the design of transport systems. Induced radioactivity, radiation damage to materials, radiation induced chemical reactions, and heating problems are discussed. Proposed solutions to these problems for the Stanford Linear Accelerator transport systems in the beam switchyard are outlined."
"Electromagnetic beam monitors have been developed and used to measure the position of the center of charge of the electron beam in the C.E.A. Wideband (10 MHz) and narrow band (18 KHz) monitors are used, having sensitivities of 1.75 μa/ma. inch and .472 ma/ ma. inch, and minimum detectable signals of 0.29 ma. inch and O. 1μa inch respectively."
"This paper deals with recent developments of power absorbing devices such as beam dumps, slits, and collimators. A brief discussion is given of the heat transfer experiments that have been conducted at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center to establish design heat flux conditions for the various materials to be used for the power absorbing devices. Design concepts of a 2.2 MW, 11 to 25 GeV beam dump, as presently being built at SLAC, are also discussed. Finally, there is a typical analysis which leads to the design of a collimator, with emphasis on beam definition, heat transfer, thermal stress development and material selection."
"A uniform current density plasma is generated by discharging a high voltage capacitor bank into two electrodes in a low pressure gas. The magnetic field within the plasma produces achromatic focussing of pions and kaons travelling along the electrode axis."
"The \"picture frame\" magnet design, the double vacuum system and the use of tuning magnets at injection have elicited some unique features in the production of beams for the experimental areas of the ZGS. For the external proton beam, the basic method of extraction is similar to other proton synchrotrons in that an energy-loss target is used to displace the circulating beam. However, the design of the ZGS is such that the necessity for plunging extraction magnets into the aperture has been eliminated. Further, the design of these nonplunging magnets is such that they are operable at a fixed field and thus eliminate the need for complicated pulsing and timing systems. Measurements using various techniques, including scintillators and TV storage systems, poloroid film, secondary emission detectors, and radioactive foil analyses have been made. For beams from internal targets, it is desirable to produce beams with various production angles, as well as being able to achieve zero degree production. It was found possible to establish three secondary beam channels looking at a common target point near the end of an octant. This point is in a nearly field-free region so that the channel angle becomes the production angle for both positive and negative particles. It is of interest that the construction of the ZGS is such that there is practically no fringe field beyond the octant edges. Furthermore, it was found possible to run targets into the octant along the inner vacuum chamber sidewalls without interfering with the injected beam."
"The equipment described deflects the accelerated beam of the AGS into a tangential pipe, providing an external beam with essentially the same structure and intensity as the original."
"Meson target manipulators are used to remotely plunge targets anywhere within a 32 in. × 60 in. × 3 in. targeting volume inside the circulating beam chamber of the Argonne Zero Gradient Synchrotron. The mesons produced are of different momentum and enter three separate beam tubes from a single crossover point. Two meson target manipulators normally position the targets for multitargeting of a single synchrotron beam pulse. The speed of targeting permits the rf to move the beam pulse to extract two meson beams of different momentum. Using a shaped two-step command function, a single target is moved swiftly into two distinct positions, again extracting two meson beams of different momentum. Targets, target angles, target positions, and the target manipulators are changed without losing beam chamber vacuum. Fixed point meson targeting mechanisms are used for extended experiments that require only single presurveyed positions. Unique electrical linear actuators drive energy loss targets vertically for fast or slow proton extraction. Such fast drive modules are easily removed without interruption of the beam chamber vacuum. Numerous economical drive units with presurveyed targets are held on standby for quick change into the accelerator. A periscope television apparatus permits remote observation of all targetry for accuracy of position under vacuum."
"Recently there has been interest in the use of the muon as a probe of QED at small distances. In particular a high energy, high intensity beam of muons opens up several interesting avenues of study. In this paper we present some preliminary results for the design of a muon beam of energy 2.5 Bev, and discuss some of the problems associated with such a design."
"At the Cambridge Electron Accelerator we have developed a technique of engaging a thin tungsten target, located in a field-free straight section, with a 6 Gev electron beam. A distortion (bump) of the equilibrium orbit of the synchrotron is produced by powering backleg windings on four selected synchrotron magnets in a prescribed way. This method is equally useful for engaging a radially-inside or radially-outside target. Smooth spills of the electron beam on the target have been achieved for periods of 100 to 3000 micro-seconds at energies of 0.5 to 6.0 Gev. The backleg windings are powered by pulse-forming networks which can be operated asynchronously (e.g. 59 out of 60 pps.) Three such systems exist at the laboratory enabling up to three experimenters to perform experiments at the same time. Each experimenter receives an allotted number of pulses out of the 60 machine pulses which are available each second."
"Summary form only, as given. Describes the secondary electron emission monitor (SEM) and explains is use for monitoring electron or bremsstruhlung beams at high dose rates."
"This paper describes a general computer program which calculates the pion acceptance and emittance spectra together with the muon emittance spectrm for a muon channel composed of any arbitrary arrangement of quadrupole magnets and drift spaces. The calculation procedure does not rely on the thin lens approximation nor does it make any assumtions about the length or periodicity of the structure or about the distribution of particles across the acceptance ellipse. This program was used to evaluate the effects on the pion acceptance and muon emittance spectra of varying the spacing, length and field intensity of the quadrupole magnets, of varying the initial drift distance from the target to the start of the channel and of turning off certain magnets in the channel. The results of these calculations are discussed as they relate to the design of muon channels for a high intensity meson facility."
"A system has been designed which is calculated to be capable of transporting up to 50 mA of 3 MeV protons a distance of seventy-five feet. The beam is contained within a radius of one inch and its phase plot is optimally matched to the acceptance of the synchrotron. This phase matching is accomplished over a wide range of beam currents by varying the excitation of the final quadrupole doublet. A computer program written to calculate the dynamics of the beam is described and some of its characteristics are discussed."
"A 9 foot radius, 135 degree, double focusing magnet, having a second order energy resolution less than 2 × 10-4 for 1 mm slits, is the principal element in the NRL Cyclotron Ion Optics System. A 21.5 inch wide pole face and 4.75 inch gap provide radial and axial acceptance angles of 3.0 degrees and 1.3 degrees respectively. This 80 ton magnet can be remotely traversed on a tracking system making it possible to bring the energy-analyzed beam into either of two experimental vaults for use along 8 different beam paths. Also described is the coupling of quadrupoles with the analyzing magnet in a manner that provides a minimum dispersion system when the full cyclotron beam intensity is desired on the experimental target. Ray-tracing calculations have been performed to determine the properties of the composite ion optics system, and the influence on image quality of power supply fluctuations and quadrupole misalignment. The design criteria for the system, the calculational methods used in the ray-tracing programs, and the results of ray-tracing along typical paths is discussed."
"Two completely redesigned 10-ft, glasscathode, parallel-plate velocity spectrometers (MK V) have been used in particle research at 500 kV for about 3000 hr each without maintenance. Current consumption, including power supply, is approximately 100 μA on each plate (< 200 μA total). The units do not appear to be gap-sensitive, as one was operated with a 2-in. gap, and the other with a 4-in. gap. No significant operating differences are apparent."
"Using the integral solution for the field and the reciprocity of the Green's Function, we show that the response of these devices to a line charge obeys Laplace's equation, if this operator is applied with respect to the source coordinates. In a cylindrical system of electrodes the boundary values of the response can be determined by inspection. Knowing these values, one can easily find the response over the entire aperture. This allows the use of electrodes of unusual shapes, e.g., sections of the beam tube."
"The magnetic shielding system for the Stanford two-mile accelerator consists of a 0.006-inch-thick layer of high quality commercial magnetic shielding material wrapped around the accelerator. It is surrounded by a system of degaussing wires, consisting of two orthogonal sets of four wires spaced to provide uniform fields to cancel the vertical and transverse horizontal components of the earth's magnetic field."
"The development of the resonant extraction technique has made possible the slow extraction of the internal beam from alternating gradient synchrotrons. An electron beam was extracted from the 6 Gev Cambridge Electron Accelerator in 1963, using this technique.1 Measurements of intensity and emittance confirmed the design calculations on the components of the extraction system. During 1964, the external beam facility was developed to a point where it is in routine use for high energy physics experiments. Some modifications were made to the components of the extraction system and a more complete study was made of its performance. Seventy per cent of the circulating beam is extracted with spill times up to 1 millisecond. Two beams are derived from the extracted beam and are transported by achromatic transport systems to different points on the experimental floor. Each transport system was designed in such a way as to minimize the radiation hazard which could be produced by the intense electron beam."
"The secondary electron emission coefficient from several elements in the form of thin foils has been measured using 70 MeV electrons as bombarding particles. Using foils with different atomic numbers, it was found that the secondary emission coefficient per target electron in the metal is noticeably larger for light elements, especially in cases of beryllium and aluminum. This indicates that metal oxide on the foil surface (Malter effect) is playing a dominant role in the secondary emission of these metals. For other metals, the experimental results seem to indicate a relatively small variation in the secondary emission coefficient per target electron, less than that predicted by V. J. Vanhuyse and R. E. Van de Vijver, but with the same general behavior. The lack of thickness dependence in the case of tantalum coils is in agreement with the extensive experimental work of B. Planskoy and with the theoretical treatment of the secondary emission by Aggson. The secondary electron emission coefficients will be given for the measured foils and the experimental values will be compared with the existing theories. Finally, the construction of a bakeable secondary emission current monitor will be described."
"The use of a multi-BeV synchrotron as a high intensity source of stopped pions and muons is discussed. To produce stopped pions extraction of pions at a relatively low energy between 100 and 200 MeV is necessary due to pion absorption in the attenuator used to stop the pions. Although no experimental data appear to be available on the cross section for production of such low energy pions by multi-BeV protons, we can use experimental data on the production of higher energy pions together with an empirical formula for the pion energy spectrum to estimate that the production cross section for 200 MeV positive or negative pions by 30 BeV protons is about 50 μb/sr/MeV/Be9 nucleus at a laboratory angle of 5°. Using such a cross section and considering other relevant factors we conclude that the proton linac accelerator meson factory operating at 500 MeV with 6×1015 protons/sec will produce about 100 times as many stopped pions or muons as could be obtained in practice from the Brookhaven National Laboratory Alternating Gradient Synchrotron operating with an increased intensity of 2×1013 protons/sec."
"The rf microstructure in the primary proton beam of a proton linear accelerator may consist typically of 0.2ns pulses spaced by 5 ns. This pulsed time structure can be removed to obtain a higher effective duty factor for the proton beam by utilizing the transverse phase space occupied by the beam. An anisochronous beam transport system can produce debunching. One such system consists of a sector magnet with a strong field gradient which bends the beam through 45° and fans it out. A second magnet, of uniform field, bends it through 90°, and a third magnet, identical with the first, recombines the beam and renders it again parallel. The rf microstructure has now been removed, since protons from one side of the beam have travelled ferther than the protons from the other side of the beam. Removal of the rf microstructure in the secondary meson beams could be accomplished with a magnet system similar to but smaller than that for the proton beam. For a sector-focussed cyclotron the above scheme for removing the rf microstructure would require an excessively large magnet system."
"The method presently being employed for extraction of 6 GeV electrons at the Cambridge Electron Accelerator is briefly described. The major element is a current strip, situated close to the orbit inner radius, which acts both as a non-linear focusing element and a magnetic deflector. Major characteristics of the current strip are: long pulse, 60 cycle, 6 GeV operation with an rms current density of 56,000 amperes per square inch at a maximum temperature of 135°F; minimum susceptibility to radiation damage, mechanical distortion and gas evolution; and reproducible remote positioning. As a result of experiments carried out with this current strip, modifications are under consideration which would make the extraction of other beams practicable, and would eliminate the need for a supportive downstream extraction magnet. A brief discussion of the modifications is included."
"This paper reviews some engineering aspects regarding the construction of instrumentation for the high power beam transport system in the beam switchyard of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. A small control computer system is described that will be used for handling of data and for setting up the magnet systems in a quick and reproducible way."
"The beam extraction system being built for the Princeton-Pennsylvania 3-Bev weak foccussing proton synchrotron is a resonant system using the νr = 2/3 resonance. This system has the advantages of high efficiency and small emittance, and requires that only the final extraction magnet, or septum magnet, need be plunged."
"As a result of interest in mass separators stimulated by Blewett, Panofsky and others, the writer suggested use of a travelling wave interaction as an improvement on existing cavity deflectors then under study at Stanford by Philips. The specific structure proposed was the use of the TMll-like mode in disc-loaded waveguide. This configuration was subsequently adopted by CERN, BNL, ENS and SLAC, where projects to demonstrate particle deflection are in progress. The principle on which the separator functions is the production of a deflecting force, resulting from field components of a wave travelling synchronously with the particle beam. A beam transport system, appropriate to the experimental arrangement, permits observation of the differentiated particles. It can be shown that the motion of a particle interacting with a propagating wave at the velocity of light is characterized by uniform, aberrationless deflection over the beam aperture. The experimentally determined properties of such a waveguide (transverse shunt impedance, group velocity and solutions of the determinantal equation) are presented for the π/2-mode of propagation. A measurement technique for determining the shunt impedance, based on a perturbation method, is also discussed."
"The feeding of as many as four experimental areas from a single ZGS pulse calls for a flexible system for controlling the spill of the beam. The beam is displaced radially into as many as four targets plunged into position after radial damping of the beam has occurred. Beam spills have been adjusted in time duration from 5 microseconds to 500 milliseconds during a flat-top period of the main magnet cycle. Spills shorter than about 0.5 millisecond are accomplished by a pulsed magnetic bump which displaces the orbit center. Spills longer than about 0.2 milliseconds are accomplished by programmed adjustment of the accelerating rf so as to expand or contract the orbit radius. Radiation level monitors in the vicinity of the targets or in the experimental beam lines are used to feedback a signal into the rf program which results in the reduction of spill irregularities due to main magnet ripple and other noises. Such a spill has rf structure and is \"on\" from 25% to 50% of the time. The repeatability for placing the beam into a given position for targeting is about 0.01 inch without employing feedback from radiation level monitors. A description of the equipment and instrumentation is given along with the performance."
"For the U. S. Naval Radiological Defense Laboratory's (NRDL) 70-inch sector-focused cyclotron a beam-pulse selector system has been developed by means of which an individual beam pulse or \"fish\" can be selected near the center of the machine and then accelerated to full energy and extraction. The beam is normally deflected axially into a beam stopper by a negative dc voltage of 10.5 kV applied to the deflector plates via a helically wound coaxial line of 2000 ohms characteristic impedance. An individual fish is transmitted by applying a 5.5 kV positive pulse of less than 40 nsec duration at the input of the coaxial line."
"Conventional fixed frequency cyclotrons evolved from the pioneering work of E. O. Lawrence and M. S. Livingston1; typical performance characteristics include fixed output energy, fixed e/m of the accelerated ions, energy less than 10 MeV/nucleon2, poor beam quality and poor duty cycle. In recent years a series of new concepts have revolutionized the fixed frequency cyclotron. These new concepts include (a) sector focusing, (b) variable frequency rf systems, (c) resonant extraction, (d) programmed orbits, and (e) acceleration of negative ions. The resulting machines, referred to herein as \"sectored\" cyclotrons3, have essentially ideal properties as compared with the classical cyclotron, i.e., variable energy, variable e/m, arbitrary final energy, good beam quality, and greatly improved duty cycle. The initial section of this paper reviews fundamentals of modern sectored cyclotrons with illustrative examples drawn from the present generation of such machines; the final section considers possible features and design problems of future machines of this type."
"The steady state and stored energy operational regimes of microwave electron linear accelerators are discussed with reference to high current capability. Avoidance of the beam blow-up pulse shortening phenomenon enables long pulse beam currents considerably greater than the maximum conversion efficiency value to be demonstrated. Heavy beam loading effects and choice of frequency are discussed with respect to this steady state operation, and it is shown that conversion efficiencies of greater than 90 per cent can be readily achieved. Stored energy considerations indicate that an increase in peak current of one or two orders of magnitude may be achieved for pulses of short duration with relatively conventional accelerator waveguides. Electron orbit theory including space charge effects for this transient condition is developed. Some experimental data obtained with a 10 Mev linear accelerator using a short pulse inflection system is presented. A concluding discussion deals with design criteria for stored energy operation in high power traveling waye structures and encourages further exploitation by providing higher current high potential sources capable of prebuncher or r-f chopped short pulse injection."
"Meson factories are those accelerators designed to produce beams of protons in the energy range of 400 to 1000 MeV with intensities at least 1000 times greater than those presently available from FM cyclotrons. They have an important role in future research in nuclear structure physics, elementary particle physics, and bio-medical research. The criteria for selection of a meson factory are discussed. They include duty factor and the time structure of the beam, the possibility of varying the energy of the beam, the efficiency with which a large fraction of the beam can be brought to an experimental area, the possibility of the simultaneous use of high duty factor beams of differing energy, the amount of radioactivity induced in the accelerator, and general flexibility. Additional criteria are cost and the relative difficulty of the expected technological problems. Descriptions are given of the various types of accelerators which have been seriously suggested for this role. These include the sector-focusing cyclotron for the acceleration of positive ions, the sector-focusing cyclotron for the acceleration of negative hydrogen ions, and the sector-focusing ring cyclotron. The linear accelerator for the acceleration of protons has also been suggested as a meson factory, and the final description concerns the separated orbit cyclotron, combining some of the features of the linear accelerator and the sector focusing cyclotron. An attempt is made to use the criteria in a comparison of the promise of these various types of accelerators in the role of meson factory."
"The electron synchrotron has become a highly successful instrument for high-energy physics with the application of alternating gradient focusing. Development toward large orbits and low magnetic fields has brought the problem of radiation loss under control and has stimulated design planning for very high energies. The magnets can be powered at high cycling rates (60 cps) by resonant electrical circuits. The most valuable feature is the long duty cycle available for experiments, of up to 20% of total time. Photons emerge tangentially in sharply collimated beams from targets at the edge of the orbit. Emergent beams of electrons can be ejected with high efficiency, having small energy spread and excellent collimation. Future developments should bring higher beam intensities as well as higher energies. Positrons can be accelerated in the same orbit, with reversed magnetic fields and a suitable source. The AG magnet system should distribute the damping due to synchrotron radiation between radial, vertical and synchronous modes, as in a storage ring. In principle, particles could be injected in each cycle and stored to develop high-intensity circulating beams. With orbits as large as the giant AG proton synchrotrons of the future, electron energies of 50-Gev or higher could be obtained. A large fraction of the orbit would be filled with rf accelerating cavities spaced between the AG magnet units, powered in phase as in a linac. As for all large-orbit machines the major cost would be for buildings, tunnels and services"
"Large angle electron scattering has been detected on the Stanford storage rings. The operation of the rings is now adequate to proceed with the proposed test of quantum electrodynamics. A discussion of the event rate and possible limitations on this rate is given."
"Alternating gradient synchrotron design can be extrapolated in a relatively straightforward way to larger circumference and higher particle energy. This means of increasing available energy is more attractive economically than any other accelerating system that has been suggested. Since increased energy makes it possible to uncover new phenomena as well as extend knowledge of effects presently known, a number of groups in the United States and Europe are intensively developing design studies of synchrotrons up to as large as 1000 GeV. This paper is a review of the work of these various groups, with particular emphasis on a 200-GeV study at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory which will soon be presented to the Atomic Energy Commission."
"In this paper the application of superconductivity to several devices which conventionally require large amounts of rf power is considered. Design characteristics are given for superconducting electron linacs, cavities for electron synchrotrons, rf separators and microtrons."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"During the last two years the development of digitized discharge planes at Brookhaven National Laboratory for operation as particle hodoscopes at rapid rates evolved from small copper wire planes to larger aluminum wire planes and later to printed circuit type thin-wall planes, which are presently in use in experiments described elsewhere in this journal.⊥ Construction of the printed circuit planes, design of the vacuum tube pulsers and factors affecting operation of the planes are described. Attainment of a short recovrery time after a spark depends on operating with reasonably low energy in the spark, absorbing the spark energy left in the gas with quenching vapor, and applying pulsed positive ion drift fields for a preset time following the spark. Recovery time can be of the order of 200μ sec in neonheliur alcohol mnixtures. Factors which affect multiplane system performance at high rates are discussed."
"For interactions of the type M1 + M2 → M3 + M4 the kinematics of both initial particles and one secondary particle determine the reaction completely. Given a fixed initial state and any missing mass M4, the momentum-angle correlation for particle M3 is determined uniquely. In the spectrometer described, this correlation is preserved as a line image in the focal plane of a double focusing magnetic lens. Dispersions both in the plane of production and at right angles to it separate the images corresponding to different values of M4, for which the spectrum is obtained directly by means of a 28-counter hodoscope in the focal plane. Each hodoscope counter is gated with a scintillation and Cerenkov counter telescope to identify particle M3. During each beam pulse the outputs from the hodoscope counters are recorded on 10 Mc/sec scalers. Between accelerator pulses the contents of these scalers are read onto magnetic tape and into a PDP-5 computer, which accumulates, corrects, and displays the data continuously to provide an on-line monitor."
"The advantage of a hydrogen bubble chamber - i.e. production on free proton -, can be combined with that of the heavy liquid bubble chamber - i.e. detection and measurement of neutral particles, by inserting a liquid hydrogen target in a heavy liquid bubble chamber. Three different targets have been adapted and used successfully for experiments with 8 GeV/c π- (240,000 photographs), 16 GeV/c π- (150,000 photographs) and 2 GeV/c π + (230,000 photographs). The last experiment is in progress."
"Summary form only, as given. An SMP is in operation at the University of Hawaii on-line to an IBM 7040 computer. Describes the programs and hardware that comprise this system and reports on applications for its use."
"A device for ionization measurements of elementary particle tracks in bubble chamber films will be described. This instrument measures the differential gap length distribution, the total blob number and the lacunarity. The process is for the most part automatic using a simple track following and gap detecting technique. Maximum speed is about 0.8 mm/sec for a track with an average bubble diameter of 40μ. Except for a power amplifier the device is completely transistorized. The light sensitive elements are silicon photo elements and a photo resistor. Results from measurements on secondary tracks of the πp interaction in the 81 cm hydrogen bubble chamber show good agreement with the theoretical curves."
"The current status of wire spark chamber devices and techniques is reviewed. Wire-sparkplanes have been used as hodoscopes, as spark chambers and as decision-making devices. Chambers in use have wire spacings of about 1 mm, up to 360 wires and comparable spatial resolution. Time resolution is less than 1 μsec; efficiencies approach 100%; recovery times are a few hundred microseconds. Substantially larger chambers can be built. The most common method of readout is by means of ferrite memory cores. Electrical and acoustic delay lines have also been used as well as pulse current division and auxiliary discharges. Several techniques are suitable for prompt logical operations such as: whether there are 0, 1 or more sparks in a plane; approximate spark location as an analogue signal."
"Evidence is presented to show that HPD measurements at CERN have reached equality with and now surpass CERN hand data in reliability. Perhaps the most direct and incisive test for correct masurement is provided by a threeview geometry diagnostic; its use for the study of performance of this (and any) analysis system is described. Various other problems connected with the development and use of the HPD system are discussed briefly."
"This report discusses the feasibility and possible performance of an instrument for scanning bubble chamber photographs. A light line from a rotating slit scans the photographs and produces a signal for track segments in near alignment with the line. The picture is reconstructed from these line segments. Fast analog rather than digital methods are used to analyze the output signal. The subsequent reduction of the data before storage on tape can be handled by a small inexpensive computer on-line. Although the instrument can in principle achieve high precision, this will not be needed for the main initial aim, pattern recognition. In a subsequent \"industrial\" stage after at least 4 years of development and experience, a more complex instrument, capable of high precision and of measuring in parallel all three stereoscopic films would require a CDC 6600 on-line and could achieve an output of up to 107 triads per year. Copies of the output tape would be used directly by university laboratories for analysing the experiment, or guide more precise film measurements of selected events with a flying spot machine. The design of the instrument allows the scanning parameters to be adapted to the types of photos being scanned and to the event types."
"A description is given of the methods used in the CERN Haze programme for finding average points from the HPD digitizings, for use in the geometrical reconstruction programme, employing the Milady scan-table rough measurements. Some details of the application of the programme to an experiment now being analyzed are given."
"The paper describes a different approach to the control of experimental apparatus in which control is performed by a microprogram controlling a very general register configuration and a single logical element. The basic concepts of microprogram control are described, including how program sequencing is accomplished and used to permit a variety of control capabilities including the generation of non-linear functions within a single system. A short discussion of presently available components will provide some perspective as to the performance levels that may be achieved and system availability. As an example, a possible microprogram controller for the PEPR film scanning system will be described in some detail and its potential performance outlined."
"The stability criteria and stability margin for a nonlinear reactor control system are developed. The nonlinear reactor control system contains a position feedback of the reactivity control element. The position feedback is around the motor and results in an enhancement of stability. A qualitative analysis of the effects of control characteristics upon stability is conducted. A similar analysis is conducted to evaluate the performance of the control."
"The effects of gamma and X-ray exposure rate have been determined in 4 common multiplier phototube types over an intensity range of about 1 to 1010 r/hr. Radiation-induced anode current was essentially a linear function of exposure rate up to about 104 r/hr and reached values of 10-4 to 10-3 amperes at 105 r/hr steady-state. Above 105 r/hr, peak values of anode current as high as 50 ma were observed with pulsed X-rays of 0.2 , μsec duration. The output of all tubes was essentially space-charge-limited at peak exposure rates greater than 107 to 108 r/hr; however, anode current recovery time to the pre-irradiation levels in three tube types increased with exposure rate, and recovery times of 6-30 μsec were observed at 1010 r/hr. This delay could not be explained clearly from the results but may be related to tube insulator spacer charging due to large rapid increases of anode current. The principal radiation sensitivity of all tubes was due to radiation-induced luminescence of the face plates and glass envelopes, and tube response increased with anode luminous sensitivity. The dynode structure and its configuration did not contribute significantly to the radiation-induced response. Radiation sensitivity can be reduced significantly through the use of non-luminescent materials in tube construction."
"The automatic start-up of the Toshiba Training Reactor, a 100 kW swimming-pool type reactor, from its source level up to the power level is made possible with a digital computer. The digital computer specially designed for this purpose is used to count pulse signals of the neutron detector every Δt seconds and, at the same time, to calculate reactor period for the indication and inverse period for the control using an approximate formula. The calculated inverse period together with the number of counts is compared with the program of start-up which is preset on push-buttons on the control panel of the computer, sending digital control signals to the control rod servo-mechanisms. The control signal is so determined that the speed of the control rod is in proportion to the deviation of the inverse period from the preset value."
"The design of a wide range digitized electrometer with an operating range from 10-12 to 10-6 ampere is described. A linear tire-base output within ± 1% of a decade over a 6-decade operating range has been realized. The design utilized the input current to charge a small capacitor as the time element. As the capacitor is charged to a predetermined threshold voltage, it causes an astable mrultivibrator to free-run for one cycle, producing an output pulse. The charging capacitor is then immediately reset and reactivated for the next cycle."
"H.M. Mann, author of \"Progress in the Application of Semiconductor Detectors to Nuclear Physics Experiments,\" which appeared on pages 88-98 of the April, 1965, issue of these Transactions has called the following to the attention of the Editor: 1. Figures 12 and 13 and their respectrive captions, (pages 97 and 98) are interchanged. They are reprinted herein; and 2. In the caption for Figure 12 the quantity in brackets should read as follows: [(3.0)2 - (2.3)2]1/2."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The particle space radiation environment is reviewed and some of the latest models for the various phenomena are presented. The properties of the solar wind and interplanetary magnetic fields based on recent satellite measurements are given and solar proton events are discussed. The magnetospheric cavity and the character of the boundary between it and the solar wind based on Imp 1 results are shown. Flux maps and energy spectra for the inner and outer radiation zones are given and examples of temporal variations are shown."
"Previous prediction methods1 are extended by analysis of new experimental data. Improved engineering techniques are developed for predicting equilibrium primary photocurrents from transistor electrical parameters. For silicon low power planar and mesa transistors, #x00394;ICBO is related to high base current electrical storage time by a simple prediction equation. A radiation storage time parameter is defined and theoretical and empirical equations for radiation storage time are developed. A radiation storage time transistor model and nomograph are presented to simplify pulsed radiation response predictions by circuit designers. The techniques are unique in predicting radiation responses entirely from measured preirradiation transistor electrical parameters."
"The mathematical bases of the Ebers-Moll, Charge-Control and Linvill models are discussed in order to establish the parameter requirements and the accuracy of these models. A recovery technique for measuring those parameters associated with minority carrier storage in devices is described and typical values are given for several high frequency devices. Other parameters, such as current gain and junction depletion capacitance, do not require special measurement procedures and in these cases the characterization of the bias dependence of the parameter is given primary emphasis. The use of the recovery technique in characterizing permanent radiation (neutron) damage and in studying damage mechanisms in transistors is also discussed."
"The necessity of analyzing complex semiconductor device behavior in the radiation environment requires improved analytical methods for accurate representation. The purpose of this discussion is to present work done on the applicability of the Linvill lumped model in a generalized model analysis. The advantages of the lumped model technique include flexibility in detail of device representation (i.e., accuracy), an intimate coupling to the well known radiation effects in bulk semiconductor material, and a unified analytical technique for a wide range of devices. It is shown that the lumped model analysis provides an effective technique for analyzing simple as well as complex devices in a pulsed ionizing radiation environment. Included is the representation of a simple p-n junction diode, a grown-junction transistor; and a planar-diffused transistor with its monolithic-chip substrate and isolation junction. The lumped-model behavior of the diode and grown junction transistor is compared to previously available analytical results. Using measured parameter values, the quantitative lumped-model predictions are compared to experimentally observed transient radiation response. The transistor response is investigated as a function of quiescent emitter current and external base resistance. The effect of the substrate junction in the monolithic-chip transistor is qualitatively presented as a function of the transistor parameters and the substrate proximity."
"An experimental investigation of electron and gamma ray damage in silicon transistors is presented. At low values of fluence (Φe < 1014 electrons/cm2), loss in common-emitter dc current gain of medium frequency n-p-n planar transistors at collector currents of one to 10 milliamperes is attributed to changes in the surface recombination velocity. Displacement-induced recombination centers in the base region cause a reduction in gain when Φe is greater than 1014 electrons/cm2. A technique of saturating the surface damage with low energy electrons (E = 125 kev) so as to permit a separation of surface and bulk damage is demonstrated. The minority-carrier lifetime-damage constant, Kτ, has been estimated from the separated bulk-damage curve. It agrees with the value determined from electron irradiation of a low frequency (fαb = 1.25 Mc/sec) mesa n-p-n transistor which is shown to suffer degradation in gain only from bulk recombination current losses within the base region. Surface damage from both electrons and gamma rays is annealed at 250°C or by injecting emitter currents of 200 milliamperes which generate a high internal temperature. In contrast to this behavior, electron irradiation of p-n-p transistors caused loss in gain which is attributed to bulk damage. Damage constants, Kτ, determined from the data show that p-n-p transistors suffer bulk radiation damage about five times greater than n-p-n transistors."
"The changes in MOS device characteristics produced by neutron irradiation from the Northrop TRIGA reactor have been observed. Three damage mechanisms have been identified: an increase in net surface state density, a decrease in substrate resistivity, and a decrease in carrier mobility in the channel. The surface effect is usually dominant, although the bulk resistivity effect becomes increasingly important as the resistivity of the substrate is decreased. An exact closed form expression for the turn-on voltage has been derived by obtaining a solution to Poisson's equation in the gate region. The open circuit gate to substrate capacitance as afunction of gate to substrate voltage has been obtained by numerical integration techniques in terms of the charge density and dielectric constants present in the SiO2 layer and Si substrate. For both enhancement and depletion devices, an increase in positive charge density was apparent in the oxide region. It is postulated that the observedincrease in positive charge density is due to creation of mobile positive ions, and that the decreasing net accumulation rate with increasing flux is due to a diffusion or recombination process competing with the creation process. On this basis, a rate effect is expected."
"Some monolithic integrated circuits have been found to display a regenerative interaction between substrate parasitics and the intended semiconductor circuit elements when exposed to ionizing radiation. One manifestation of this effect can result in a bi-stable operating condition which prevents proper integrated circuit functioning until the power source is reduced. Experimental and analytic methods are described which have been used to determine the susceptibility of a specific type of monolithic integrated circuit to regenerative operation. The analytic methods predicting the form of the regenerative transient effect rely heavily on the use of an automated digital computer code termed Transient Radiation Analysis by Computer (TRAC) which mechanizes the complex nonlinear equations that simulate the semiconductor behavior."
"High levels of ionization can be created in semiconductor devices by irradiating the devices with short pulses of light. If the light frequency is properly selected, sufficient and relatively uniform energy deposition is obtained which results in ionization rates orders of magnitude above those presently attainable from other sources. It is shown that a pulsed-infrared laser can be used as a relatively simple, inexpensive, and effective means of simulating the effects caused by intense gamma ray sources on semiconductors. Experimental results are presented which show that the transients induced in various types of silicon transistors when exposed to a neodymium laser are essentially identical to those obtained when the transistors are exposed to pulses of 25 MeV electrons from a linear accelerator and 600 kvp flash X-ray machine. Good agreement exists between the peak photocurrents obtained using these three sources over a dose range of 10-1 to 104 rads. Calculations based upon published as well as experimental absorption data for silicon show that energy deposition is very nearly uniform for the wavelength of light obtained from neodymium lasers (1. 06 microns - 1. 17 ev photons). By defocusing the laser light beam, dose rates in excess of 10R12 rads/ sec (silicon) in 40 x 1-99 seconds over an area of 50 cm2 have been obtained from a Q-switched 10 megawatt neodymium laser. This greatly exceeds the maximum dose rate of 1011< rads/ sec silicon) over approximately 1 c2m attainable from linear accelerators."
"The neutron and gamma sensitivities of nine detectors were studied in experiments performed at the Sandia Pulsed Reactor (SPR). Of the detectors tested, six are predominantly gamma detectors at the SPR and three produce a significant fraction of their total current due to the neutron flux during a normal SPR burst. None of the detectors studied were found to be predominantly sensitive to the neutron flux during a normal SPR burst. Tests performed at pure gamma sources on a P-Intrinsic-N (PIN) diode detector are also described. The neutron induced current in the silicon detectors is treated theoretically."
"The conventional viewpoint of saturation in junction transistors, from a device point of view, considers the excess minority carriers in the base region. A different viewpoint considers the majority carriers in the base. The important elements then are the number of these carriers stored in the transistor and whether they are stored in the active base region, the extrinsic base region, the collector body, or the epitaxial layer. The storage of carriers in the active base region plays a relatively minor role in the storage effect for most modern transistors because of the small volume of semiconductor material involved. In alloy, diffused, and epitaxial transistors the storage of carriers (electrons in a PNP transistor) is shown to be in the last three regions named above, respectively; in none of these transistor types is the storage region identifiable as the active base region. This new viewpoint leads to well-accepted storage-time expressions for alloy and diffused transistors and to new storage-time expressions for epitaxial transistors. Detailed calculations of the primary photocurrent have been made for three practical transistor construction types that relate this current to basic device parameters and to the electrical storage time. In addition, the radiation storage time has been calculated in terms of the electrical storage time for epitaxial transistors. Examples of these calculations are given and the results presented."
"Data for predicting transistor gain degradation in a neutron radiation environment were obtained from experimental studies of the variation of the radiation damage constant KT as a function of temperature and current during both measurement and irradiation. Relatively small spreads in the values of KT were obtained when the individual base transit times were measured and the radiation exposures were precisely determined. Radiation damage effect data from 20 different n-p-n silicon transistor types were obtained and normalized to the same minority carrier concentration in the base region, using the transit time and the VBE-Ic characteristics of the specific transistors. The resulting relative dispersions of the damage constant for minority carrier densities of 1015/cm3 and 1016/cm3 were typically 15 to 20 percent. These dispersions indicate that electrical measurements of transistor physical parameters can provide reasonably accurate predictions of the gain degradation for a wide variety of transistors without additional radiation testing of specific transistor types."
"In a previous paper a neutron-induced component of base current was reported that increases in proportion to integrated neutron flux and varies with base-to-emitter voltage, VBE, as exp(q/nkT VBE), n being approximately 1.5. A component of base current which varies similarly with base-to-emitter voltage has previously been reported to be of surface-perimeter origin. For this reason it is significant to unambiguously locate the origin of the neutron-induced component. For this, a detailed study of the current-voltage characteristics, an analysis of the deviation of the characteristics from an exponential caused by emission concentration for \"ring-dot\" structures, and an analysis for the transverse bias dependence of the base current components for a special \"tetrode-type\" test structure were performed. The results indicate that the small \"1.5 component\" of current initially present is indeed of surface-perimeter origin while the added \"1.5 component\" of current induced by neutron bombardment is of bulk space charge region origin. To determine whether this effect is universal, an investigation was made of many different types of silicon transistors, and all were found to exhibit a similar neutron-induced current component. The number n in the exponential term is found to be a function of temperature decreasing with increasing temperature. For example at -50°C, n = 1.6, and at +100°C, n = 1.3. Annealing studies reveal an apparent difference in annealing rates for the neutral bulk base region and the high-field region of the emitter-base junction."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Space radiation has induced damage to spacecraft in near earth orbits in a number of documented cases. Explorer XIV, Explorer XV, UK-1, TRAAC, TRANSIT IV B and TELSTAR I were among these. It has become imperative that an adequate laboratory simulation technique be found and applied to future spacecraft to extend the useful lifetime of spacecraft and prevent premature failures. The choice of the equipment for carrying out laboratory simulations at Goddard Space Flight Center has been made by an analysis of damage produced in semiconductor devices. The relative damage produced in semiconductors with various particle energies was compared with the number of those particles at each energy in space to produce a curve showing the particle energies which are most damaging in space. From the curves it becomes clear that energies from about 1 to 4 Mev are the most damaging for electrons and protons. Therefore, the Goddard Space Flight Center will have a facility with a 0.5-3 Mev electron accelerator, a 0.5-4 Mev proton accelerator and a 0.1-1 Mev proton-electron accelerator, to cover the low energy range. The facility will also have a 30,000 curie Cobalt 60 area able to irradiate whole spacecraft to simulate ionization damage effects. With these facilities a reasonable program of radiation hardening of long-lived spacecraft may be carried out."
"A survey of the new work in the neutron monitoring of a nuclear power reactor is presented. The sensors have been moved into the reactor and the three modes of measurement necessary to cover the ten decades of the in-core neutron range from startup to rated power are described. The system specifications and life performance data are reviewed. Several innovative extensions of in-core monitoring such as the traversing probe and the Campbell method are covered in detail."
"The requirements for radiation monitoring from an integrated instrumentation system aspect are developed with emphasis on the detection and control of radiation hazards. General treatment is given to the problems and equipment involved in operational or process monitoring, site monitoring, effluent monitoring and area or personnel monitoring. The types of radiation that are encountered in a nuclear plant and the units of measurement that are used are discussed. A review of the types of monitoring equipment that are presently available to make plant and personnel measurements and their sensitivity and reliability as related to meeting accepted standards for plant personnel and general public protection is given. A typical radiation monitoring system and the basis for the design are described. A brief summary of the status of development of solid state monitors is included."
"Protective systems for nuclear power reactors have assumed a high degree of development. The primary motive has been the emphasis given to making reactors safe and more recently the desire to offset the site distance requirement through engineered safeguards. Increased reactor operating experience and improved safety analyses have contributed to a better definition of the events and conditions requiring protective systems. The judicious use of such philosophies as redundancy and coincidence in system designs has led to both greater safety and reactor operating continuity. Reliability of protective systems has been enhanced by parallel efforts in system and individual component design. Techniques and procedures for checking and testing protective systems have been developed and adopted at many installations to offset the inherent difficulty of assessing reliability of systems which experience little or no use under actual stressed conditions. Design practices have been effected to provide greater assurance that systems are independent although this remains as one of the outstanding problems. Protective systems in the context of monitoring devices are being developed by the application of noise analyses, digital computer control and the use of transistorized or solid state circuitry. Finally, the actual performance of protective systems is being manifested through analysis of existing operating records."
"It was found that the radiation-induced leakage current across the gate-to-substrate and the drain-to-substrate semiconductor junction dominates the behavior of MOS field effect transistors for small gate impedances. The smaller radiation-induced gate leakage current consists, to a large extent, of components due to secondary emission and air ionization effects. For large gate impedances, the gate leakage current can be important because of a modulation of the gate bias. The voltage dependence of this leakage current is also discussed. Based upon these findings and the physical structure of the device, an equivalent circuit model has been developed to predict the behavior of devices of this type in a transient radiation environment. The model consists of a standard nonradiation equivalent circuit modified by the inclusion of elements to describe the substrate junctions and the addition of current generators in parallel with the gate-to-substrate and the drain-to-substrate capacitances to account for transient radiation effects. A voltage dependent gate-to-channel current generator can also be included to describe the gate leakage current. The utility of the model was confirmed by comparing the predicted behavior of radiation-induced responses with responses observed at a flash X-ray. The equivalent circuit model developed is suitable for use with existing automated circuit prediction techniques and contains parameters measurable with standard instrumentation procedures."
"High intensity pulsed nuclear radiation tends to make back biased semi-conductor junctions conduct. Arma undertook the design and development of a circuit which would provide a switch opening in response to nuclear radiation pulses. The design objectives for the Radiation Sensitive Switch were that switch response should be fast, triggering should be adjustable, operation should not be impaired at high pulse intensities, reset, or switch closure, should be auto matic and at a preset time after trigge ring and switch status should be indicated. A prototype switch was designed and constructed. A number of tests were conducted in a high energy linear accelerator (LINAC) to investigate circuit performance under irradiation. The results of the tests proved that the Radiation Sensitive Switch met or exceeded all design objectives. Switch opening was sustained to pulse intensities as high as 4.8 x 1010 rad/ sec. Switch response timnes were less than 0.2 micro seconds. Reset times were constant throughout the test series. A control range of over 4 to 1 in radiation triggering threshold was achieved without changing components. A radiation sensitive switch, to provide a controlled switch opening in response to a nuclear radiation pulse has been shown to be feasible and practical."
"SiC has a band gap energy of about 2.9 ev; intrinsic SiC would be an excellent insulator at room temperature. In practice, the uncompensated room temperature resistivity of single crystal SiC rarely exceeds 100 Ω-cm. Information about radiation damage in SiC is scanty. Rates of charge carrier removal upon irradiation are similar to those found in Si. Most of the defects anneal at less than 8000C; within the operating range of some SiC devices. We have been interested principally in SiC p-n junctions, as rectifiers and as radiation detectors, and have studied their degradation in charged particle and neutron fluxes. Useful life is 1-100 times greater than can be achieved in comparable Si devices."
"Spark and oorona-streamer characteristics have been obtained for a wire-plate alpha particle counter having an electrode gap 1.27mm - 12.7mm and a wire diameter 0.07mm - 0.5mm. Applied voltages Va up to 22kV were employed. The working characteristics for different quenching resistances R are reduced to a single fundamental characteristic independent of R. Conditions are given for attaining a flat counting characteristic plateau in both the sparking mode and coronastreamer mode of operation."
"Experimental study indicates that a significant contribution to the radiation-sensitivity of certain contemporary silicon planar transistors is caused by space-charge modifications in the oxide surface region. Certain silicon planar transistors, which are inherently passivated and protected by a silicon dioxide surface layer, have been found to realize appreciable degradation after exposure to space-type ionizing radiation. The model of radiation surface-effects proposed in the literature claims the radiation-induced ionization of the ambient gas of the transistor to be the major cause of transistor radiation-sensitivity. Contrary to this model, silicon planar transistors irradiated in an ultra-high vacuum environment realize comparable changes in electrical charactw. istics to those silicon planar transistors irradiated in gaseous ambients. Since the degradation occurs at radiation doses as low as 104 rads and is dependent upon the polarity and magnitude of electrical bias, it has been determined to be a surfa. ce effect. In order to study the effects of radiation on the silicon-silicon dioxide interface, a metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) structure was used. From the capacitance versus voltage characteristics of irradiated MOS transistors it has been confirmed that a major contribution to the radiation-surface degradation in silicon planar devices is the buildup of positive space charge in the silicon dioxide films covering the silicon-device surfaces. This space charge is mobile and able to drift by motion in electric fields. This positive charge can be accumulated at certain areas of the surface causing the silicon surf ace to have a tendency to go n type."
"Medium power silicon controlled rectifiers have been exposed to a maximum integrated fastneutron flux of 4 x 1013 nvt. An increase in the current required to turn on thie controlled rectifier and an increase in the break-over voltage were observed after irradiation. The saturation voltage increased as a result of irradiation, exceeding 200 volts at an integrated fast neutron flux of 4 x 1013 nvt. These changes are attributed to a decrease of the minority carrier lifetime as reflected by a decrease in alpha."
"As accurate and rapid techniques for analytical performance prediction of thermionic plasma diodes are presently lacking, an IBM digital computer program has been developed to semi-empirically predict diode performance. Experimental curves of voltage versus current are presented for tantalum, molybdenum, and rhenium for a wide range of emitter and cesium temperatures. These are processed by the program to determine the optimum efficiency characteristics for various emitter temperatures. Graphical presentations of the processed data indicate the maximum obtainable efficiencies using any of the three emitter materials. The corresponding values of cesium temperature and diode voltage necessary to obtain this efficiency and the corresponding power densities are also presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A description is given of an internal balance capable of withstanding tunnel starting loads of the order of twenty times the amplitude of the forces to be measured during brief-duration hotshot tunnel runs. Large starting forces applied as shock loads necessitate inertia compensation to nullify parasitic signals. Quartz sensing elements statically are used. Dynamic response is within one percent of the final value for a duration of three milliseconds. The inertia compensation and compensation coefficient determinations are described. The readout system uses involving analog computation techniques are presented. Typical results are given and the advantages of inertia compensation are described."
"Solar cells will dominate the spacecraft power generation field into the 1970's. Power requirements have increased from the few hundred milliwatts of Vanguard I to the one kilowatt of the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. This paper discusses the state of the art in solar cells and their modules and mountings; discusses improvements needed, and estimates the future for these devices."
"In a multidegree-of-freedom suspension system coupling effects are undesirable because they make the calibration difficult and they can cause deterioration of the dynamic stability of the system. This paper presents an analysis of the coupling problem leading to the design of a particular system configuration. First, the support of spherical models by means of a three-degree-of-freedom magnetic suspension system is analyzed in terms of the forces acting on a magnetized point. It is shown that coupling effects due to displacements are eliminated only if the magnetization, the resultant force to be balanced and the axis of the field providing the balancing force, are aligned with each other. In the case of axisymmetrical models this condition can always be met, except for small disturbances, in a vertical wind tunnel leading through the coil which balances the resultant of the drag and the weight. The same coil provides the magnetization of the model. Orthogonality of the force axis system is achieved by using a pair of coils, operating in push-pull, for each of the force axes perpendicular to the axis of the wind tunnel. This arrangement eliminates first-order coupling effects between the force axes. It is shown that long axisymmetrical bodies can also be supported by the same system. This is made possible by decoupling the angular and the translational degrees of freedom. Restoring moments are produced by the field of the magnetizing coil."
"The human centrifuge is used to train pilots and astronauts for flights where they are subject to large accelerations. This paper deals with the problems of simulating such linear accelerations with a rotating device and presents suitable means of reducing undesirable simulation error. The advantages of using three gimbals rather than the usual two are considered. Numerical results illustrate the problems of simulation and the improvement achieved by the use of a third gimbal."
"The efficiency for signal representation of the angular prolate spheroidal wave function, particularly the two sets Sol(1, t) and Sol(8, t) is discussed Six signal waveforms are considered: rectangular, triangular, trapezoidal, exponential, Gaussian, and cosine-squared. For each, a representation is made in terms of the two sets above and also the Fourier cosine functions. As the number of terms of the representation increases, the approximation gets better. A measure of the \"goodness\" of the approximation is the percentage of the total signal energy represented by the finite expansion, over a fixed, finite time interval. The angular prolate spheroidal wave functions are a very efficient orthogonal set in this sense. Their principal advantage over Fourier cosine functions occurs for cases whereby only a very few terms of the expansion are to be used to approximate a signal shape."
"Shock tube instrumentation techniques developed for the study of convective heat transfer and the radiative properties of high temperature gases at conditions simulating hypervelocity entry into planetary atmospheres are described. An electrically heated helium driven shock tube is used; measurement methods suitable for conventional shock tubes must be modified before they can be used in the hypervelocity shock tube. Extremely high shock velocities necessary for proper simulation are associated with very short test times imposing requirements for fast response instrumentation systems. Methods for evaluating test gas quality are illustrated. Techniques described have been applied to several studies; typical results are shown and instrumentation requirements for the extension of aerothermodynamic investigation in the hypervelocity regime are outlined."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper presents a categorization of research and development within the U. S. Department of Defense, to improve overall management of the R&D function within the Department. Criteria for evaluation of the application of management techniques and systems must be provided for the integration of functional areas."
"The ultimate goal of research in the Army is to improve, through knowledge, the effectiveness of its operational forces. It depends upon contributions from all the scientific disciplines in a mutual effort carried out by in-house scientists and those in the universities and non-profit and industrial organizations of the nation. The growing power of electronics in the solution of a broad class of problems is pointed out, and its relationship to other areas requiring support by the Army is indicated. A distinction between the research and exploratory development programs of the Army is drawn, showing the contract funding levels and relative emphasis among the scientific disciplines. Some characteristics of the transition between the two are expressed. A brief description is given of the Army's organization and management for research, and some selected areas of important electronics research are cited."
"The problem of stabilizing a tumbling satellite prior to attitude control is discussed. The method of Hamilton-Jacobi theory is used to derive an explicit closed-loop control law for the problem."
"A summary of research and development work on high-power microwave filters is given here: first, design considerations in high-power microwave filters-power handling capacity, waveform distortion, multimode suppression, and stop and pass band characteristics; second, a discussion of filtering devices and techniques in two broad categories-dominant mode filters and harmonic filters (discussion covers methods of operation and significant characteristics of each filter developed to date); and third, a discussion of applications and limitations of filters in various systems and interference situations. Also included are the availability, cost, size, weight, etc. as functions of frequency for the various filter types."
"Manned Orbiting Laboratory (MOL) will provide the opportunity for space experiments and an assessment of man's ability to perform at zero gravity. The experiments discussed (nine in all) are designed to provide astrophysical and terrestrial information on ultraviolet, airglow, upper atmosphere chemistry, solar corona investigations, observation of objects at or near the sun's limb, cosmic ray investigations, planetary astronomy, and ionospheric investigations including plasmas."
"Utilization of high frequencies for over-the-horizon surveillance necessitated a refined approach to the determination of actual ray paths. Various ray-tracing programs have been developed. The basic problem lies in accurately determining values of the appropriate ionospheric parameters. A possible means is by utilization of oblique sounding devices located at the path terminals to provide 1) relative propagation time difference (Δt) between the modes, 2) maximum frequency propagated by any given mode (MUF), and 3) difference in MUF between the various modes (ΔMUF). The technique has not been fully verified; preliminary results are encouraging."
"The relationship of Exploratory and Advanced Development to the overall Navy research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT & E) program is indicated in terms of the proportion of funds allocated. Selected projects and areas of work are named or discussed and the proportionate allocation of funds to Navy bureaus is indicated to present representative pictures of Exploratory Development (exemplified by a Bureau of Ships electronics program) and Advanced Development (exemplified by a Bureau of Naval Weapons electronics program)."
"Techniques for the generation, propagation, and detection of sound at microwave frequencies have been investigated. Transmission and reflection experiments with quartz crystals are discussed with the design of a microwave delay line as the final product. Various limitations for the system were discovered, and methods of overcoming them were studied. Experiments with zinc oxide transducers were performed in an attempt to overcome the high insertion losses in quartz crystals. Propagation effects in various crystals geometries were also studied."
"Exploratory work has been done on a new class of electric motors using electrostatic forces and ferroelectric materials in a manner analogous to the conventional ferromagnetic hysteresis synchronous motor. A simple test motor has been built, yielding confirmation of self-starting, pull-up, and hysteresis synchronous operation. Advantages including the nonmagnetic feature and printed-circuit simplicity are discussed. Limitations imposed by insulation and materials are also described, as well as areas for continuing development."
"Equipment availability frequently falls short of that predicted by calculations from the equipment availability model in normal usage. This paper presents an improved mathematical model which takes into account several factors involved in detecting faults as well as the MTBF and MTTR of the operational equipment. Both continuous monitoring and periodic checkout systems can be evaluated and minimum performance requirements for these systems established, based on required levels of primary equipment availability."
"The theory and procedures pertinent to the design of wide-band high-power amplifiers and the classical theory of broadband voltage amplifiers is briefly reviewed; the differences between the design constraints for voltage amplifiers and for power amplifiers are pointed out. The requisite changes in analytical models of the amplifier are inferred; an analytical model appropriate to the design of high-power wide-band amplifiers is constructed. The observed characteristics of an amplifier are presented and compared with competitive devices. Differences between wide-band voltage amplifiers and wide-band power amplifiers are inferred directly from voltage and power gain; a procedure for designing efficient wide-band power amplifiers is presented; and application of this procedure is shown to be adequate for the design of VHF amplifiers providing average power output of 1 kW over a 50 percent bandwidth with overall efficiency of 33 percent and a power gain of 15 dB."
"Integrated electronics or microelectronics is one of today's major technical frontiers. Possibilities offered to the designer of avionics subsystems, for aerospace vehicles, by these techniques, are almost limitless, from the point of view of performance capabilities as well as reliability and maintainability. Application will change current engineering practices in avionics design. Some changes will be easy; in others, problems will appear. This paper discusses these changes, indicating potential gains to be expected as well as potential problem areas. The rise in the application of integrated electronics is expected to be high for the next 10 to 15 years. By 1980, integrated circuitry will have largely replaced the use of discrete components, and the rate-of-increase-of-application curves will level off."
"The selection of avionic subsystems, which constitute an optimum integrated military aircraft electronic system, involves the analysis of three major factors: reliability, logistic compatibility, and performance. This is a discussion of the analysis of performance only, as an illustration of one major consideration in synthesizing a new aircraft avionic system. The quantitative result of this analysis would be combined with the results of analysis of the other two major factors for comparison with alternate systems similarly analyzed. One important type of close-support mission and its related avionic functions are described in terms of a required series of tasks, including navigation to the IP (identification point) and target, acquisition of the IP and target, and weapon delivery. The method of evaluating the avionic subsystems for their respective tasks is discussed, and the analytical method of evaluating system effectiveness is presented."
"A formal descriptive definition of a computer memory which, because of inherent parallelism, data manipulative capability, and resulting speed advantage over conventional central processor memories, offers promise of providing substantial increases in computational capability for a large class of Army data-processing problems. The basic forte of this memory is its ability to search its entire contents in one unit cycle time for adherence of the stored data to the imposed search criteria. These storage systems are conventionally called Content Addressable Memories (CAM's); today they represent an unstandardized concept with respect to their capabilities, applications, and organizations. A hierarchy (according to capability) of CAM's is developed; each new version possesses the characteristics of the previous, but incorporates a new sophistication, until the \"full capability\" CAM concept is developed. Finally, guidelines are established to evaluate the economic potential of various techniques suitable for the realization of a \"full capability\" CAM, and possible applications are investigated for inclusion in Army automatic data-processing and communications systems."
"The development engineering involved in large scale systems is but one of many problems included in acquisition of these systems. The purpose of this paper is to explore some of the engineering problems encountered in the development of the Strategic Air Command and Control System 465L and to indicate how the interaction between the technical problems and the nontechnical problems affects the final engineering decisions. In this paper we will indicate the basic requirements for the system and show how the system was configured to meet these requirements. The deficiencies uncovered in the design and first cut solutions to the problems and the compromises which were necessary to implement the system will also be discussed. Illustrative examples will be used to show how the design evolved into the final system configuration which is now in use."
"A maser preamplifier designed into an X-band weather radar set AN/ MPS-34 increased the radar's sensitivity by 12.5 dB to an over-all 118.5 dBm. Many low-performance, obsoleted sets could be converted to a high-performance system through the inclusion of a maser. A qualitative discussion of the maser's operation is presented, and the quantitative effects of the maser low noise temperature on the radar's overall noise figure is derived. The meteorological targets not previously detectable are analyzed, and anticipated target detection is forecast."
"A definition of the five categories of technical effort in the Air Force; an establishment of a new subcategorization of basic research (unbounded and guided); and a discussion in detail of the following, with cross-references to like problems in industrial concerns: 1) basic research, 2) exploratory development, 3) advanced development, 4) the role of the manager, 5) the manager's desirable and undesirable traits, 6) the role of the scientist and engineer, 7) the organization, and 8) future trends."
"Spending company money wisely is a challenging job. The management approach used for selecting, executing, and applying company research projects is presented. Goals for research expenditures are discussed, together with methods of defining projects. The important interface between Government organization and company engineering and marketing is given. Optimum means of organizing and controlling selected research projects are covered, including management redirection when required. Approaches for maximizing creativity are also presented. All information presented is from actual experience and procedures now in use."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Omega is a navigation radio aid having worldwide coverage with good accuracy. By choosing among the phase-difference lines of position-much as with celestial navigation-high and uniform accuracy can be maintained. Developed and tested by USNEL and USNRL, Omega is introduced by a discussion of qualities not shared by Gee. Decca, or Loran."
"Radiation transfer equations applicable to various types of imaging instruments used against distant sources are presented. Emphasis is placed on measurements against point and line radiators made with instruments yielding image spectra. Framing and streaking cameras are discussed in terms of the overall transfer functions of the instrument and sensor. Calibration techniques used for absolute intensity measurements are shown to yield data within a factor of two of the actual value in most cases. The instruments described are of specific use in optical radiometry against bodies penetrating the earth's atmosphere in the hypervelocity regime, and are equally applicable to measurements in a ballistic range. For the problem of tracking these fast-moving objects, imaging instruments are preferred to point detector devices."
"Millimeter wavelength radars are used to study plasma effects associated with ionized flow fields of projectiles launched at hypersonic speeds into a free-flight ballistic range. Two CW Doppler radars, at frequencies of 35 and 70 Gc/s, measure the nose-on backscattering radar cross sections during flight. The design and performance of the two radars are described in detail. A signal simulator provides absolute calibration. The purpose is to measure changes that occur in the radar cross sections of hypersonic projectiles caused by highly ionized flow fields. Under certain conditions the nose-on backscattering radar cross section of a blunt-nosed metal projectile decreases drastically when a thin, shock-produced layer of ionized gas covers the projectile. A theoretical analysis of this effect is given. Comparisons between theoretical predictions and experimental data show good correlation."
"Information matrices are derived for estimates of the range parameters of moving targets as obtained by combining a priori information (if available) with reflected radar signals observed in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise. The inverse of the information matrix provides a lower bound on the covariance matrix of any unbiased parameter estimates. This bound can be approached with a high signal-to-noise ratio and optimum data processing (matched filters). Arbitrary frequency modulation, amplitude modulation, and target motion as well as various assumptions on processing the RF phase are considered. The multiple-target case makes possible investigation of a signal's resolution ability, as well as its accuracy potentials. Results for a carrier frequency much greater than the effective signal bandwidth are obtained as a special case. A main purpose of the paper is the reduction of the original radar problem to a linear model which is equivalent in the sense of having the same information matrix. These models provide valuable insight into the relative effects of multiple targets, choice of modulation, a priori information, and assumptions regarding RF phase and bandwidth. The linear equivalent model also leads to a valuable computational algorithm for investigations using digital or hybrid computers. The various special cases of interest are obtained by simple modifications of the general case, and thus the algorithm can provide a very versatile tool for evaluating and designing radar signals."
"Using a logarithmic amplifier giving a detected output followed by a high-pass filter is a technique for reducing adverse effects of distributed clutter in radar receivers. A pulse-length discriminator (PLD) used as the high-pass filter is treated here. Theoretical and experimental results for the loss in detectability introduced by this receiver, as compared with a matched filter or a good approximation thereto, have been obtained. For the case of single-hit detection, losses of 4 to 8 dB are introduced by the logarithmic amplifier/pulse-length discriminator (LOG AMP/PLD) combination; for post-detection integration, the losses are reduced to 2 to 4 dB. The latter values would apply where the LOG AMP/PLD output is presented on a PPI (plan position indicator). Some experimental results of the ability of the LOG AMP/PLD receiver to reject signals of incorrect pulse length show that signals exceeding the design pulse length by more than 25 to 50 percent are effectively suppressed. No significant short-pulse discrimination is obtained from the receiver."
"CCIS-70 is the Army's program for exploiting the application of ADP technology within its tactical environment. Some of the technical and philosophical management problem areas facing the project planners are outlined, and the Army's approach toward solving two representative problems is described in detail."
"A procedure for applying thoroughly tested data processing techniques to the solution of complex cabling problems is outlined. The problems are discussed briefly, and are followed by a description of the major steps required to solve them via automatic wiring list generation. The techniques resulted in the successful cabling of a large phased-array radar system. A number of proposed computerized techniques for solving equipment integration problems are also discussed. Such methods would provide greater engineering efficiency, lower system costs, and increased ability to meet critical schedules."
"Simultaneous use of a single satellite repeater by several surface terminals is of considerable interest to the military user. A method of achieving multiple access by means of time division is described. Bursts of digital data from different surface terminals are interleaved in a manner that allows them to be identified and demodulated. A comparison is made between the access efficiency of time division and that of other methods of multiple access. It is shown that, for a range of conditions, time division compares favorably with the others. In addition, it has the major advantage of flexibility. The primary considerations in the design of a system are given and the pertinent relationships derived. These relationships are used to obtain the values of the system parameters for an Mustrative system model. The system described allows six different accesses at any one of three data rates, depending on the carrier-to-noise ratio. Finally, a system block diagram is given with a description of its operation."
"Analysis of four-frequency satellite Doppler data has allowed the separation and measurement of frequency-dependent ionospheric contributions to the Doppler shift, providing information useful in the study of errors incurred when tracking radio signals through the ionosphere. These refraction errors affect the accuracy of navigational position fixes obtained by Doppler satellite tracking systems. Some measured ionospheric refraction errors reported here are of interest because their magnitudes are significantly greater than those heretofore predicted from theoretical considerations."
"A brief description of the basic oxidation-reduction processes taking place in the dry cell is used to show that substitution of solid electrolytes for conventional liquid electrolytes can enhance battery miniaturization potential without sacrifice of shelf life. Previously developed solid-electrolyte batteries, however, exhibited prohibitively high internal resistance. Solid-electrolyte batteries of the type Ag-AgI-Pt, working on concentration-cell rather than conventional oxidation- reduction principles, have significantly lower internal resistance. Such cells can be made quite small (possibly down to 0.002 cm3 per cell), have apparently excellent shelf life, and are operable at 100° C. More- over, they show a recharge capability. In addition, they appear amenable to development effort leading to a thin-film, printable battery with interesting application possibilities."
"Various corrections are made to the above-named work (ibid., vol. AES-1, No. 1, August 1965) affecting pages 6."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A simple method for recording a patient's internal cranial temperature is described. Using these measurements it is shown that the drop and rapid rise in basal temperature indicative of ovulation can be easily detected and recorded. The superiority of cranial temperature over oral temperature is demonstrated by indicating the occurrence of ovulation one full day before a like indication in oral temperature. Evidence is also given for choosing cranial over rectal temperature for use in detecting ovulation."
"An illustrative example of the spectral analysis of simultaneously recorded electroencephalograms(EEG's) is presented. The first topic is that of auto-spectral analysis, which is very similar to frequency analysis; then cross-spectral analysis is used to show that the major relationship among three of the traces analyzed is a linear one, while a fourth trace is nonlinearly activated. Two hypotheses suggested by this analysis are tested by methods of multivariate spectral analysis, a recently developed extension of the cross-spectral method."
"Data acquisition often falls into the category of digital sampled data systems, in that an initially continuous function is represented by an ordered series of discrete points. Signal recovery, i.e., emulation of those aspects of the original function which are of interest, will depend on the quality and nature of the input, on the sampling interval, and on the effectiveness of the technique used for signal reconstruction."
"Quantitative microscopic studies of individual neurons of the central nervous system, especially of their elaborate dendritic and axonal patterns, can be done only with great difficulty using conventional biological microscope instrumentation. In order to simplify and speed the gathering of such data, a computing light microscope has been developed. This instrument functions as a unit under the control of the investigator examining the histologic preparations. It is capable of measuring accurately distances in all three coordinate axes. Measurement of the length of dendrite branches is performed by means of a chord approximation. Computation is performed by means of conventional electronic analog techniques. Chord distances are computed according to the Pythagorean theorem by means of squaring, summing and square rooting. The initial coordinates of the chord are held in capacitor hold-circuits. The input to the computer section of the instrument is, by means of linear-motion transducers, fixed to the stage of the microscope along the three coordinate axes. There are two output devices, 1) a digital printer which prints on tape the distance measurements in micra (μ), and 2) a plotting board on which is drawn a two-dimensional projection (in the plane of section) of the neuron. The distances measured range roughly from 3 to 100μ, the accuracy of the measurement is ±lμ or ±9 per cent, whichever is greater. Analysis times are reduced from the approximately 24 hours required by camera lucida techniques and hand calculation to 30 min with this new instrument."
"Based on requirements specified by several investigators engaged in studies involving electrical stimulation through electrodes chronically implanted in brain substance, an electrical stimulator was designed and built. The instrumentation problems encountered in stimulation studies are discussed to emphasize the need for certain features adapting the instrument to the biophysical characteristics of living brain tissues. The resulting stimulator output is bidirectional, current-regulated and isolated, and provides isolated monitors for current ranges from 0.1 mA to 10 mA and pulses from 0.1 ms to 10 ms wide."
"A simple instrument is described for the assessment of a thermal environment by continuous monitoring and computation of the Wet-Bulb Globe Thermometer (WBGT) heat stress index. Silicon diodes are used as the temperature transducers. A simple resistive network for weighted summation of the voltages has been developed. The instrument is battery-operated and suitable for laboratory and field work. Monitoring and recording is possible from a remote site."
"The use of wire electrodes inserted intramuscularly has become quite common in electromyographic studies. Such electrodes have the advantages, relative to needle electrodes, of small size and great flexibility, resulting in minimum discomfort. The usual techniques for inserting these electrodes, [1], [2], necessitate forming a hook on the end of the electrode. This hook serves to keep the electrode in the hypodermic needle during insertion, and to anchor the electrode in the muscle during withdrawal of the needle."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Readers will notice IEEE catalog cards at the back of this issue. Dr. Morris Rubinoff, Chairman of the IEEE Information Retrieval Committee, has written a description of the proposed IEEE program on this subject. The BME Group plans to participate fully in this endeavor. At the bottom of this page is a list of terms which are designated, \"The BME Microthesaurus.\" Most of these were made up by an Ad Hoc Committee consisting of M. Eden, E. F. MacNichol, Jr., R. L. Schoenfeld, H. P. Schwan, and G. Webb. The terms with an asterisk were added by the Editor in order to provide index terms for papers in this issue. These appear in the catalog cards and also below the abstract with each paper. The Microthesaurus is the key idea in the new approach to information retrieval being undertaken by the IEEE and other professional societies. The BME list has 21 terms. These are mostly \"D\" terms or descriptors. Terms such as \"Intracellular Recording,\" \"Neural Analog\" or \"Ultrasonic Visualization\" describe conceptual divisions of the field. Terms such as \"Bio-Medical Engineering,\" \"Biophysics,\" \"Cybernetics\" or \"Medical Electronics\" are type \"A,\" absolute terms which characterize the subject area for purpose of identification within the broad discipline of electrical engineering in particular and more generally among the natural sciences. There are a few terms such as \"Microelectrode,\" \"Tissue Impedance,\" \"Volume Conductors\" and \"Negative Capacity Amplifier\" which are \"I\" terms or identifiers; proper names of things, places or objects. In the Microthesaurus, however, these \"I\" terms are also descriptive of the conceptual and working differences within the subject matter of the field. The first time a term is used in a paper to identify a new concept, it may be extracted by the author or the Editor as an \"E\" term. Subsequently, as with the terms \"Sensory Coding,\" \"Computer Average Response\" and \"Biological Clock\" such terms may become \"D\" terms descriptive of a major division of activity. The choice of index terms is a crucial step in information retrieval. Individual readers and local group chapters may prepare their own lists and comment on and criticize the list which has been prepared by the Ad Hoc Committee. Authors should underline or add to their abstracts the proper index terms from this Microthesaurus to describe their work. The Editor invites comment and suggestion from the readers on BME participation in the IEEE information retrieval program."
"The physiological processes concerned with the difficult dynamic task of fixating the retinal image during normal body and head movement are examined with a control engineering perspective. Spatial relationships between the two main system inputs (visual and vestibular) and three main outputs (operating on the eye-in-skull, skull-on-body, and body-in-space platforms) are examined in the context of the geometry of the environment with the aid of an information flow diagram. From dynamic considerations a picture emerges in which the visual tracking system has adequate accuracy and dynamic range for following most naturally moving objects when the head is still. But with head free, the added perturbations of natural movement exceed these tracking capabilities. However, over the frequency range 0.1-5.0 c/s the semicircular canal subsystem then provides angular velocity information for powerful complementary servostabilization."
"Described in the following text is a method for recording intracellular responses on magnetic tape, recovering the analog data in digital form and, subsequently, operating upon the digitized data to recognize and tabulate salient features of the observed transmembrane potential."
"A Fortran program for the recognition of intracellular events has been written for the IBM 7094 digital computer. The program will accept a digitized representation of intracellularly recorded neuronal responses from magnetic tape and will recognize sub- and suprathreshold voltages such as excitatory and inhibitory postsynoptic potentials and spikes. The program will point out salient features such as initiation times, event amplitudes, rise times, and where possible, time constants. Statistics such as time and amplitude histograms may be performed."
"Average response computation has come to be a widely-used method for the study of evoked potentials recorded from the central nervous system. A mathematical analysis of the mean and variance of the average response computation is presented here. It is shown that an average response computation based upon periodic stimuli will not effectively reduce certain forms of neuroelectric interference. It is further shown that if the stimuli are suitably aperiodic, then the interference can be suppressed."
"Several additions to the existing artificial neuron circuitry and the resultant input-output relationships are presented. The value of these models does not lie in any detailed similarity between the mechanisms by which the simulation and the simulated generate their behaviors. Rather, the worth lies in the ability to quickly assemble groups of these models, each with known characteristics, in order to test conceptual models based upon live studies."
"This paper describes the design of an active source capable of approximating the three independent dipole and five independent quadrupole source components. The entire system utilizes a physical arrangement of 11 ``point sources'' located at the intersections of a cubical lattice. By an appropriate selection of point sources and sinks and by proper control of their relative strengths, each of the eight aforementioned source components can be excited."
"In neurophysiological studies, it is frequently advantageous to ascertain various time relationships between neuronal discharges, or spikes. During the course of the Applied Physics Laboratory's endeavors in the field of neuronal studies, a particular need arose for a means of determining some of these time relationships. To meet this need, a relatively inexpensive electronic device was designed and built at the laboratory. This paper is a description of the device's capabilities, limitations, some of its more common functional uses, and circuitry. The application, while referenced to neuronal discharges, may be with respect to a number of pulse waveforms."
"In his editorial in this issue of the Transactions, Dr. Schoenfeld introduces the IEEE catalog card program to members of the Bio-Medical Engineering Group. In future issues each paper will be assigned a catalog card which collects into one place the conventional bibliographic information such as author and title, the abstract, and a brief set of index terms describing the most significant topics in the papers. The index terms are intended to expedite efficient storage and retrieval of papers by subject matter rather than only by author, title and general subject category. The purpose of this paper is to illuminate the considerations that led to the introduction of the use of index terms and to indicate the scope of the overall IEEE information system program."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An analogue method is presented for simulating a visual receptor network of the type described by Hartline, Ratliff, and Miller as a model for inhibitory interaction in the retina. The number of elements required in the model is reduced drastically by using a process of repeated approximation which converges. The activity of a large receptor field is simulated by breaking it up into much smaller, overlapping subfields, the activity of which can be determined using the model equations."
"Experiments have been designed to demonstrate that the human accommodative system operates with an even-error signal mechanism under restricted monocular viewing conditions. Retinal blur is such an even-error input signal and, thus, these experimental results add to the evidence considering blur as the effective input signal in accommodation. The random 50 percent erroneous initial direction of movement is a null experimental result which should be robust to a variety of experimental artifacts that may have contaminated previously published results."
"A device for the extraction of data from a video display is described. A medical research application using a video tape recording of a densicardiogram as an example is explained. The methods of recording, reproducing, digitizing, and analyzing cardiovascular characteristics is described from the standpoint of development experience. Further applications outside of the medical field are suggested."
"In systems involving inductive coupling between an external coil or coils and an internal coil, an improvement in the efficiency of energy transport is usually realized when a suitable ferrite core is utilized for the implanted coil. A detailed theoretical analysis, with particular emphasis upon hollow spherical and oblate spheroidal cores indicates the manner in which the improvement is related to the geometry of the core and the electrical and magnetic parameters of the ferrite. For a system with a low initial value of efficiency, the insertion of a suitable core results in a several-fold improvement in energy transport efficiency. The analysis indicates that unless the almost field-free region within the ferrite shell can be utilized to advantage, increased efficiency of energy transport can probably be achieved more easily by increasing the diameter of a coreless coil than by using a ferrite core."
"The first part of the paper discusses various representations for the electric scalar potential, and develops a procedure for determining the magnitude of the quadrupole term of the multipole expansion from a knowledge of its five components. The terms in the multipole expansion for an equivalent cardiac generator depend on the location in the heart region chosen as the origin. In the second part of the paper, an optimum dipole location is defined as the point where the dipole term alone gives the best fit to the potential on a least squares basis. If the heart is well represented by a dipole plus quadrupole, with the z-axis chosen to coincide with the dipole moment p, the optimum dipole location is given by"
"The possibility of regaining control over paralyzed muscles by using control signals from normally innervated muscles is discussed. An electronic device which enables a quadriplegic patient to open his right hand by lifting his left shoulder is described. The circuit consists of an EMG amplifier, a modulator, and a stimulator. Existing problems are analyzed and further investigations proposed."
"Electronic digital and analog computer techniques have recently been utilized in a unique mathematical model design approach for a myocardial augmentation system. This system incorporates solid-state circuitry in a special purpose computer design for conversion of physiological input data to pump actuator commands which precisely withdraw arterial blood prior to and during systole and subsequently replace the same volume at a time following the closure of the aortic valve. The resultant computer-automated pump has been demonstrated to significantly reduce aortic pressure during the heart systolic phase and to subsequently provide adequate perfusion pressure during the early cardiac diastolic phase. A description of this system and typical clinical application is discussed as well as laboratory results."
"The system contains up to 11 channels, each consisting of a transmitter and receiver. An input scanner is used to time share a counter and printer among the channels. Any two channels may be selected for analog recording. All of the data acquisition equipment is commercially available."
"A solid-state electronic switch is described. It is capable of switching audio signals (20 c/s to 100 kc) and producing rectangular, trapezoidal, or Gaussian envelopes. A fast switching circuit is used in conjunction with a Hall Multiplier. An external gate voltage controls the duration of the output envelope. The on-off ratio is 80 dB up to 50 kc. The switching transients are 60 dB below the output signal."
"The minimization of the sampling rate necessary to store a signal frequently requires filtering of unwanted higher frequency components in order to avoid aliasing errors. In many physiological situations the desired cutoff frequency is too low to be realized by a practical passive analog filter. In such a case either an active analog filter may be used, or the signal may be initially sampled at a higher rate to avoid aliasing, then numerically filtered in real-time, and the resulting smoothed signal sampled at a lower rate (the effective sampling frequency). The purpose of this communication is to describe the use of a class of low-pass digital filters which we have found useful for this purpose."
"Low power radio transmitters implanted in the body to telemeter physiological information are caused to drift by the permeability of their cases to body fluids. Potting the circuit in epoxy resin delays the process only slightly, though filled epoxys are somewhat more effective. A wax coat is helpful, but apparently not sufficient; a layer one mm thick can suffice a few months. Coating the entire unit with silicone rubber only approximately doubles the time of uptake of moisture by the underlying epoxy. Tests on various materials have been published [1]."
"Many of the engineers who are currently engaged in bioengineering work have had little formal training in biology. To provide these practicing engineers with a knowledge of physiological fundamentals as well as with examples of the applications of engineering techniques to the study of physiological systems, an intensive course in physiological systems analysis for engineers was presented during the summer of 1964 at the University of Michigan. This report presents data on the training and research interests of the course attendees, as well as some of our experiences in the teaching of physiology for engineers."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"The effect of high direct voltage on the formation and dislodging of water drops hanging from a smooth conductor will be shown and used to explain the resulting corona characteristics, such as pulse amplitude and repetition rate, audible noise, radio influence (RI) and loss current, and corona current waveforms. Phenomena taking place during the conductordrying period are also explained. The relationship between the number and spacing of points on a smooth conductor, on one hand, and RI and loss current, on the other, is demonstrated. Results obtained from water-drop experiments are compared with those from experiments using metal points of various shapes."
"This paper develops a straightforward method for determining the maximum amount of capacitance which can be connected in parallel with an induction motor and static load combination without danger of self-excitation. Special consideration is given to the effect of the static load. Graphical results are presented which can be readily applied to a wide range of induction motor size and static load combinations. The effect of the static load is to increase the amount of capacitance which can be used safely without induction motor self-excitation."
"A preliminary account has already been given of the EHV composite ac-dc study initiated last year at the University of Wisconsin [1]. This paper presents additional results obtained in the study of parallel EHV ac-dc power transmission in a basic 2-machine equivalent system. The consequences of 3-phase faults on inverter commutation are evaluated, and circumstances leading to inverter commutation failure (shoot-through) are made clear for various conditions of initial loadings and faulting. The consequences of inverter shoot-through onsystem stability are also evaluated for the 2-machine case. The characteristics of the control arrangement for a dc line are expected to be of special significance in determining the final overall performance of composite ac-dc systems."
"Conditions for the design of damping circuits to prevent line overvoltage in a dc transmission system are described, and a concrete design method for the analysis of these circuits on an analog computer is suggested."
"This paper presents the method used by the Pennsylvania Power & Light Company (PP&L) to control voltage on the distribution system. This method utilizes a combination of switched and fixed capacitors on the distribution circuits and allows the exclusive use of tapless distribution transformers. The fixed capacitor requirements are determined on the basis of maintaining a nearly flat voltage profile at light-load circuit conditions and the switched capacitor requirements are determined on the basis of maintaining a nearly flat voltage profile at peak-load circuit conditions. Time recalibration control on the switched capacitors provides optimum voltage control over the daily load cycle. Some information is given concerning the distribution circuit losses and the overall system savings resulting from the use of capacitors."
"This paper deals with a class of polyphase reactors made up of groups of interconnected closed-core reactor units, which operate in a predetermined sequence over a cycle. The réactors can be designed to draw nearly sinusoidal current from the line over their operating range. Examples are given of the use of the reactors in a line-voltage regulator and a frequency multiplier and for generating firing pulses for a large ignitron rectifier set."
"This paper presents a flexible easy-to-use method for analyzing the generating-capacity reserve requirements of a power system. The approach described takes into account the monthly, daily, and hourly variations in system load; scheduled maintenance requirements; forced-outage performance of the generating units; and the effect of interruptible load (IL) curtailments, the extra-load capability of the generators (EL), and emergency backup support from interconnections (EB). It permits an easy qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the effect of change in any of the basic assumptions used in the analysis, such as load projection, forced-outage rate or acceptable standard of system performance, without requiring repetition of the entire calculation with a new set of data."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"High-voltage laboratory tests on a 500-kV SF6 circuit breaker are discussed and analyzed in terms of insuring effective insulation coordination on a live-tank breaker for either 1550-kV or 1800-kV BIL service. Sixty-cycle, impulse, switching surge, and corona level tests were made at minimum operating (alarm) pressure. Additional tests at 0 psig revealed a 60-cycle withstand in excess of twice line-to-neutral voltage. A uniquely designed horizontal, live-tank, circuit-breaker bushing is presented and shown to have excellent contamination resistance, even when wet. The need for parallel protective gaps is stressed to relieve the current transformer from acting as the coordinating element."
"A synthetic laboratory circuit for arc interruption research is described. The ability of this circuit to simulate many power system fault conditions is shown. The important role it has in the development of new circuit breaker interrupters is presented. Results of some experimental studies on arc interruption are reported and discussed."
"Technical data, accumulated while designing and testing EHV (extra-high-voltage) disconnecting switches, are being presented as an application guide in establishing EHV switch insulation coordination. Dielectric characteristics of large single and large double switch gaps are included for making comparisons between single-break and double-break switches. The subject of EHV switch open gap insulation coordination is reviewed in rather complete detail. Design criteria and test data are submitted, covering a 500-kV switch employing a variety of EHV insulators. Attention is called to several subjects requiring action and resolution by electrical-power-industry standardizing organizations."
"A discussion of the development and test of 500-kV air break switches is presented. An explanation of the performance requirements of extra-high-voltage switches and the reasons they differ from lower voltage switches is included. Preliminary research tests and switch configurations are described, presenting the problems of design and explaining solutions. Tests of the switch installed on cap and pin and post insulators are included for 60-cycle, impulse, and switching surge. The gap tests described allow switch gap-insulator comparisons. Switching surge phase-to-phase test results are included, in addition to the results of switching surge tests made of the switch when used to connnect two utility systems together."
"The first 500-kV 35 000-MVA breakers to go in service in the United States have been developed and subjected to extensive testing. They are built of modules which can be combined for voltages of 345 kV, 500 kV, and 700 kV. The interrupting medium is SF6 gas in a completely sealed 2-pressure system, operating at constant densities. At 75°F, the higher pressure is about 240 psi; the lower is 45 psi. Contacts and blast valves of each pole unit are connected by a mechanical linkage operated by a pneumatic mechanism. The first breakers, using a mechanism designed for other breakers, have an interrupting time of 3 cycles. A special mechanism, designied for the new SF6 breakers, gives them an interrupting time of 2 cycles."
"The results of a field test of a 345-kV double-break air disconnect switch interrupting magnetizing current of 400-MVA autotransformers are reported. Waveforms of typical currents are shown, and high-speed sequence photos are included to illustrate arcing for opening and closing. Restriking of the arc during opening is charted for two conditions of excitation energy source impedance. Comparisons of the double-break arcing time with that of previous single-break switch tests at similar currents indicate that the double-break switch interrupts with half the arc time. An experimental high-velocity interrupter system with sequence photos showing 4-cycle arcing time for a 6-ampere interruption and a new design concept in the arrangement of the terminal pad and connector hardware for EHV disconnect switches are shown."
"This work presents an analytical study of the several phenomena associated with interrupting light capacitive currents in air with disconnecting switches. The computer work is based upon and duplicates observed field performance of EHV disconnects operating at 400 kV and 505 kV. Particular attention is given to magnitudes of current and voltage surges produced as a function of bus megavoltamperes, switch resistance, and capacitance load. Simplified equivalent circuits and concepts are introduced to permlit easy analysis of EHV switching problems."
"The various factors to be considered in the design of spacers for bundled conductors and the performance of a combination spacer damper designed to fulfill the mechanical and electrical requirements for spacers and the vibration damping requirements for the conductors are discussed."
"The effect of increasingly detailed turbine-generator representation on calculated system stability limits is discussed. A new computer program which permits transient saliency, flux linkage variation caused by armature current, saturation, machine and system damping, the speed-governor system, and the excitation system to be represented is compared to previous computing methods. Swing curves and permissible loading limits for an example system obtained by using varying degrees of detail in machine representation are compared. The advantage of a complete machine representation in permitting a single study approach to transient, dynamic, and steady-state stability is brought out."
"This paper reviews the general problems attendant on the transmission of bulk energy and the necessity for high-voltage test sets. It analyzes the specific nature of direct-potential testing of EHV cables, especially oil/paper dielectric types. It examines in detail the design concepts of the new test set, discussing the Insulating Core Transformer (ICT), a recent innovation which is the essential transformer/rectifier unit. The paper also reviews some of the problems and procedures utilities experience with the new supervoltage feeders now coming into prominence."
"Pipe-type cable involving magnetic enclosures has created new problems for the engineer, in determining the magnitude of fault currents on a system partially composed of circuits of this cable construction. Usually, system analysis follows 1) the determination of the various impedance values for the several parts, and 2) solving for the magnitude of fault current under various conditions. When pipe-type cable installed in steel pipe is involved, the values of impedance turn out to be a function of the current. Thus, their use in a solution becomes complicated since they are a variable of the function being solved. Because of the general lack of information, it was believed that a few curves giving limiting values of impedance functions of pipe-type cable would be of use to engineers for developing circuit analysis."
"Because of the progressively greater distances from sources of hydroelectric power to large load centers, there is a constant search for more efficient and less costly means of long-distance transmission. This paper proposes a half-wavelength transmission system for point-to-point transmission of power to eliminate many of the operational and design problems associated with conventional long transmission lines."
"Systems of sheath bonding which eliminate sheath losses in single-core cables cause sheath overvoltages as a result of transients and faults. Equations for transient sheath voltages are derived for the first incident wave, through the use of equivalent circuits to represent bonding points. The method is extended to subsequent reflections with a digital computer; calculated results are given for several values of the relevant parameters, and the effect of these parameters is discussed. Transient sheath voltages can be limited by the surge diverter described in this paper; and the necessary sheath insulation levels, with and without surge diverters, are discussed. Equations for sheath overvoltages caused by external steady-state faults are given. Calculated and measured sheath voltages when compared, show reasonable agreement for both transient and steady-state cases."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A procedure is described for calculation of an auxiliary phase for a single-phase capacitor start motor. The size of wire, the number of turns, and the size of capacitor are determined to meet five restraints. These restraints are: required locked rotor torque, maximum allowable capacitor volts, maximum allowable locked rotor current, greatest current density in the auxiliary winding, and largest slot fullness that is permitted. A trial winding is calculated using estimated number of turns, a trial wire size, and a trial capacitor. The characteristic impedances are determined as a function of winding ratio, wire size, and capacitor size. For each wire size and capacitor, an auxiliary winding is determined which will meet the restraints if it is possible. The method is arranged to facilitate digital computer programming. The logical flow is such that the program will arrive at the best auxiliary or determine that no satisfactory design exists."
"The equivalent circuit used for most single-phase motors with two windings is expanded to include motors having higher harmonics in the magnetic field, produced by concentric stator windings concentrated into stator slots. The mutual fields are described in equation form; how they occur in a single-phase induction motor is explained by a graphical interpretation."
"The impulse level of high-voltage generator windings is reviewed with respect to the solid dielectric and gas spacing. Insulation differences between conventional and conductor-cooled generators are presented, industry application concepts are reveiwed, and proposals are made for a dc test that will assure a desired impulse strength level for generator windings."
"A method for speed control of a wound-rotor induction motor is described. The rotor is supplied from an inverter, with SCRs having the same output frequency as the rotor (sf1). The stator is connected to a 3-phase network with constant voltage and frequency. The motor works in the region s > 1, so that the rotor revolves against the rotating field. The inverter works at a higher frequency than that of the network. Part of the slip power is fed back to the network. With mechanical and inverter-power limitations, the device permits continuous speed control from zero to maximum allowable speed. Starting is smooth and the starting current is low. Feedback may be used for speed stabilization under variable load. The motor is noiseless in spite of harmonics."
"Parameter optimization of an induction machine is discussed from the viewpoints of the consumer and the national economy. The parameters thus determined ensure minimum cost but not normal machine properties. The object of the analysis was to determine the direction of change of the normal parameters which would ensure reduction in cost. Optimization was effected on seven principal parameters with calculations carried out on a digital computer. The optimized machine obtained has an extremely small inner stator diameter and length of laminated core, excessive stator slot and yoke depths, a large rotor slot section, and a very high air gap induction. Calculation results yielded the breakdown of the annual cost of the machine which consisted of material and loss expenditures."
"The equations which describe the dynamic performance of unsymmetrical 2-phase induction machines are established, and an analog computer representation is developed from these equations. Computer representations of several single-phase machines including the split-phase, the capacitor-start, and the capacitor-start-capacitor-run types of induction motors are developed by extension and modification of the unsymmetrical 2-phase machine representation. In these simulations, provisions are made for stator switching during the starting period. The results of a computer study which demonstrates the free-acceleration characteristics of the capacitor-start, as well as those of the capacitor-start-capacitor-run single-phase induction motors, are given. Computer results which show the decay of the open-circuit terminal voltage and the instantaneous torque during an opening and reclosing of the main winding are also included."
"The effectiveness of an analog computer in studying the performance of induction machinery is demonstrated with computer results which show the dynamic behavior of 2-phase and 3-phase machines during balanced and unbalanced operation. The computer simulation for these various modes of operation is conveniently obtained from the equations which describe the symmetrical induction machine in an arbitrary reference frame. Of particular interest is the representation which is used to simulate the opening and closing of a stator phase. This simulation would be useful in studying the performance of the induction machine when used in conjunction with electronic switching devices. The examples which are given can be used directly, or in a slightly modified form, to study various practical problems. Also, these examples should serve as guideposts in selecting the best reference frame or the best combination of reference frames to be used in the computer simulation of systems which have more than one machine."
"In this paper, unbalanced operations of induction and synchronous machines are discussed. The current-voltage differential equations, referred to the moving reference axes α and ß, are derived directly from the general equations of armature reaction and induced voltage. Kron's tensor transformation is used to develop a reciprocal system representing the actual machine under unbalanced operations. As an illustration, the line-to-line short-circuit case of a synchronous machine is solved in detail. An approximate solution for the differential equation with variable coefficients is proposed."
"A 1-dimensional incompressible fluid model is used to show how two identical transverse-current MHD conduction generators, capable of self-excitation as dc generators, can be cross coupled magnetically to form a balanced 2-phase ac generator. The criterion for successful ac self-excitation is essentially the same as for successful dc self excitation; all reactive power is supplied by the generator magnetic-field energy storages, and the maximum operating frequency is limited by fluid conductivity and flow velocity. Conditions obtainable with seeded combustion gases yield frequencies too low for practical applications; however, conditions predicted for gases with nonequilibrium conductivity indicate the possibility of generating power at useful frequencies."
"The direct measurement of stator winding copper temperatures in large electric machines is made possible with a miniature tunnel diode oscillator, mounted directly on the current-carrying conductor. A temperature-sensitive capacitor in the oscillator's resonant circuit causes the radiated signal frequency to change as copper temperature changes. This signal, radiated through the thickness of the winding ground insulation, reaches an antenna external to the ground insulation. Then this signal is compared with one from a calibrated external oscillator, using a standard AM (amplitude modulated) radio circuit which will indicate changes in transmitted frequency. Calibration curves of frequency vs. temperature will reveal the copper temperature at the transmitter."
"Modern controlled semiconductors and their use in inverters and cycloconverters have resulted in the frequent application of induction machines in variable speed drive systems. Consequently, a need has arisen to develop simulation techniques for studying induction machines as components in controlled drives. An analog computer simulation together with its associated 2-phase voltage generator is described. The complete system is responsive to a single dc input signal which controls both speed and direction of rotation of the motor by controlling its frequency, voltage, and phase sequence. Regulators, timing circuits, and other actual system components are easily introduced into the control loop of the simulation. Typical results of the study of a position controlled induction motor drive are given."
"Electromagnetic field theory and an experimental analysis are used to determine the parameters of induction cup machines. Equations for the rotor resistance, rotor self inductance, and stator to rotor mutual inductance are given in terms of machine geometry. Rotor end effects are also considered. A new test procedure is introduced to determine the ratio of rotor reactance to resistance and the ratio of the square of the mutual inductance to rotor self-inductance. This procedure, as well as existing test methods, is used to substantiate, experimentally, the theory."
"The equivalent circuit of the induction motor has been modified by placing the iron loss resistance branch between r<sub>1</sub> and x<sub>1</sub> instead of in parallel with x<sub>M</sub>. By use of this circuit, the open circuit and stalled rotor tests are analyzed for the circuit parameters. The method given shows an improvement in obtaining X independently of r<sub<2</sub> and in obtaining r<sub>2</sub> itself. These improvements allow successful analyses at higher values of (r<sub>2</sub>/s)/X<sub>02</sub> than previously. An improved method is shown for cases when x<sub>1</sub> &#x02260; x2. It is shown that the relationship (X<sub>01</sub> - Q) - P is significant in determining whether (r<sub>2</sub>/s)/X<sub>02</sub> is above or below 1.00. A useful validity check on the test results is given. An alternate approximate method is given for cases of high values of (r<sub>2</sub>/s)/X<sub>02</sub>. A calculation sheet or test analysis format is given."
"Summary form only given, as follows. H.A. Adler, co-author with M.F. Cosgrove of the paper \"Simulated Service Aging Tests of Insulating Oils in Transformers,\" which appeared on pp. 657-666 of the August 1965 issue of these Transactions, has advised the Editor of the following corrections: In the first full paragraph on p. 659, \"1.2 percent of the annual oil volume\" should read \"1.2 percent per year of the oil volume.\" The third line of Table I under E should read \"0.20,\" instead of \"0.05,\" and the third line under F should read \"0.14,\" instead of \"0.02.\" In the last paragraph on p. 661 (third line from the bottom), th e word \"and\" should be inserted between \" 1951\" and \"about.\" In the first line of Table III, the \"Sludge, percent\" should read \"0.014,\" instead of \"0.14.\" The last sentence of Conclusion 4 should read \"This difference in oxidation stability can be important for sealed or conservator transformers when the oil is accidentally exposed to oxygen.\""
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"High-voltage current-limiting fuses inherently have had difficulty in interrupting very low currents, 1 to 5 times fuserated current. Thus, some auxiliary coordinated device was always required to provide the interrupting function at low-current range. The primary reason that current-limiting sand-filler fuses encounter low-current clearing problems is the unbalance of voltage stress produced along the length of the fulgurite formation by leakage currents within its vitrified section. The difficulty now can be overcome by incorporating a gas-evolving element support within the fuse. Further improvement is achieved by proper placement of arc electrodes which produce multiple arc regions under low-current element melting, with a reduction in total arc energy released, plus an improved energy distribution within the fuse."
"The breakdown strength of a hot gas and the kind of breakdown, dielectric or thermal, is believed to depend upon the electrical conductivity of the gas. Two methods have been applied to measure conductivity, one using a low-voltage probe and the other a microwave beam. The results yielded by the two methods gave better than an order of magnitude agreement. It is found that breakdown depends upon electron concentration and, more specifically, that the type of breakdown is also determined by it. These results shed light on post-arc conditions in circuit breakers."
"Time constants of flat arc bands, burning between nonevaporating plates, were theoretically and experimentally investigated. Neglecting the convection term, the relevant energy balance equation was solved in a one-dimensional approximation. Expressions for the distribution of electrical gradient were inversely proportional to the plate distance and were dependent, as well, on the heat-flux potential. The arc time-constant was proportional to the square of the plate distance and inversely proportional to the thermal diffusivity. Measurements at current zero of alternating-current arcs, operating at 2000 c/s and 1000 amperes, confirmed the strong dependency of the arc time-constant on the plate distance. Time constants as small as 0.1 μs were obtained."
"This paper attempts to develop a consistent theory of contact resistance over several decades of force, including effects of surface curvature, surface roughness, and surface films. The concepts developted are supported by analog studies, optical observations, statistical analysis of variations in data, and by quantitative correlation with contact resistance data in both air and vacuum environments."
"This paper deals with the basic and fundamental operation of opening load-break switches on distribution circuits. It concentrates on phenomena exhibited during the first half-cycle after the switch blades have parted. Verification of analysis is based on oscillograms of interruptions to three types of in-service feeders: 1) industrial, overhead; 2) residential, overhead; and 3) residential, underground. Because there are no known field data of this particular nature, the information in this paper should be valuable to the utility industry in positively identifying the inherent circuit characteristics when switching different types of feeders."
"A computer program has been developed for studying the design of the primary main circuit. This program is part of a series of programs developed jointly by the Arizona Public Service Company and the General Electric Company. The program, which can be used independently or in conjunction with programs for studying secondary and subtransmission system economics, examines each of many possible primary circuit designs, determines investment and operating costs, and compares the total cost with that of other possible designs. Use of the program at four different load levels and two primary circuit voltage levels has produced much significant data and has resulted in optimization of conductor size and of the dimensions of the substation load area. In addition, a lower annual cost for higher primary circuit distribution voltage has been demonstrated."
"A computer program for studying the economics of subtransmission system design is described, and the results of its use on a load area of the Arizona Public Service Company are summarized. The program, which can be used independently or in conjunction with programs for studying secondary and primary system economics, examines each of many possible subtransmission designs, determines investment and operating costs, and compares the total cost with that of other possible designs. The use of the program with data for a specific load area for four different load levels produced cost savings on the order of 9 percent of total secondary plus primary plus subtransmission costs and established the low cost combinations of subtransmission voltage, conductor size, distribution substation rating, and bulk power station locations and capacities."
"A year's operation of the first large combined cycle unit, using a modern reheat steam turbine with a two-shaft gas turbine, shows that expected economy and capability have been realized. Reliability is expected to improve as a result of modifications."
"Data are presented which aid in the application of various automatic recording fault-devices to power systems and the analysis of their records. Necessary and desirable features are described together with typical or unusual connections that realize the many uses of such devices."
"The authors' purpose is to develop matrix computational methods for solving power system stability problems with the inclusion of transient saliency, variable impedance type loads, voltage regulator effect, and governor response. A computer program was developed and is described, as well as the convergence characteristics of the major computational loops of the algorithm employed."
"This paper describes the steps in the development of the closed chest defibrillator which led to the discovery that, by applying external heart massage to the closed chest with concomitant artificial respiration, it is possible to provide sufficient artificial circulation of oxygenated blood to maintain the heart and brain alive for an hour or more. The results of the application of cardiopulmonary resuscitation to 301 patients at The Johns Hopkins Hospital are also presented and discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Improved ventilation, through the increase in the mass flow of hydrogen in both rotor conductors and stator vents, has permitted increases in turbine-generator ratings. Further advances in ventilation, and thus in rating, are obtained 1) by paralleling the cooling paths in the rotor by means of zoning which employs the full fan pressure and 2) by using higher capacity gas-cooled stator coils with two sets of vent ducts per conductor with bare end connectors. Further increased stator ratings are obtained by introducing higher pressure (or higher mass flow) hydrogen to the stator coils through connectors and an external pumping system. With hydrogen cooling, substantial increases in machine ratings are now possible, within practical frame sizes and with high efficiencies, to match ratings of present-day large tandem compound turbines."
"Bang-bang excitation scheduling, applied to a synchronous generator returning from load rejection, has been investigated and the results are reported here. Such control increases the generator's degree of transient stability and terminates its mechanical oscillations. The criterion for control is developed from observations of generator response to return from load rejection, and pulse variations in the excitation. Using the instantaneous frequency deviation as a characteristic quantity, the generator's response is discussed, and results are presented in equation and graphical form. From these, the switching criterion is developed to obtain bang-bang excitation scheduling, experiments with which verify the method."
"In the application of turbine-generators, the effects of unbalanced current on the generator must be given more consideration as the unit loading of generators is increased. Types of generator rotor construction are discussed and representative calculated temperatures obtained under fault conditions are given. Examples of operating experiences are included to provide a better concept of the capability of generators under unbalanced loading conditions."
"Rapid advances in the capabilities of turbine-generators in recent years have resulted in substantial economies in the production of electric power. Developments in generator cooling deserve a large measure of the credit. The circulation of hydrogen at high velocity within the major insulation walls of the conductors is employed for cooling some of the largest generators now under construction. Problems encountered in applying this new cooling principle to large machines required extensive study and experimental investigation. Loss reduction measures to sustain high efficiency, new more effective design features to improve reliability, and the use of better materials and improved manufacturing techniques are among the developments that have made today's large gas conductor-cooled generators possible."
"Principles which influence the design, application, and operation of conductor-cooled turbine-generators with liquid-cooled stator windings and gap-pickup rotors are defined. Thermal design practice applying for continuous operation at steady-state load conditions is described, and the practical attainment of design temperatures is verified by the results of generator tests in the factory and in the field. Temperature-time relationships resulting from short-time overload conditions are shown. These thermal relationships and the associated duty on the generator components form the basis for a guide to machine operation during forcing conditions and short circuits. Generator thermal characteristics are related to generator and system characteristics which are considerations of proper application and operation of the generator on the power system."
"This paper expands on an effort to correlate mass spectrographic and chromatographic analyses of the gases produced by a variety of synthesized defects which could occur in a transformer [1]. The attempt has been augmented by a number of field experiences in which gas samples were analyzed, interpreted, and eventually compared with reports from the field of the defects that were corrected. The effectiveness of the technique is dramatically encouraging."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"An ice load telemeter station employing unique methods of power supply and measurement has been designed and installed. The completely self-contained installation includes communication circuits, telemetry circuits, control, power supply from a 230-kV power line, and a radio telemeter circuit powered from and installed on an energized 345-kV conductor."
"This paper describes what is believed to be the nation's first completely transistorized pole-mounted 10-watt VHF land mobile radio repeater station powered by a combination rechargeable battery and thermoelectric generator unit. Over 2 years of field experience has been accumulated since this Station was installed December 7, 1962. The Unique power supply, which has been an unqualified success, comprises a 12-watt thermoelectric generator, a thermomotor which diverts the waste heat into the radio equipment cabinet at temperatures below 40°F, and a nickel-cadmium battery supply."
"Some previously accepted concepts of power line carrier coupling do not apply on power lines with very few transpositions. For such lines, the attenuation and impedance of the carrier circuit may be strongly dependent on which phase conductor is selected for coupling. This phenomenon has been investigated in a series of tests on a long 500-kV line with one transposition near the middle. The results, which are explained in terms of the modal propagation theory, show a difference of as much as 15 dB in attenuation at certain frequencies between the optimum and a more conventional form of carrier coupling."
"This paper will investigate the technique of modal analysis applied to propagation of signals on overhead transmission lines. The propagation problem is first analyzed in phase quantities at a constant frequency and then with modal transformations in the original differential equations. From the model analysis, properties of modal transformations are deduced. This analysis shows that when earth correction terms are used in the description of the transmission line, the propagation constant matrix can be used to determine the modal transformations; it is also demonstrated that to evaluate the phase quantity results numerically it is necessary to perform a modal (eigenvalue) transformation. The general equations, evaluated for perfect earth, show that the surge impedance matrix can be used to determine the modal transformations, as has been done by previous authors."
"This paper will discuss the magnitude of earth correction terms calculated from available references. It is concluded that Carson's earth correction terms are predominant, and curves detailing the magnitude of these are presented. Examples showing the magnitude of Carson's earth correction terms for a given line at 60 c/s, 50 kc/s, and 1 Mc/s are shown. A modal analysis, using the technique developed in a companion paper, shows the effect of the earth correction terms on the modes of propagation and confirming field test results are given."
"A method of coupling with directional characteristics can have two significant advantages in power line carrier work: it will remove the need for wavetraps, and it will expand the communication capacity of the power lines. The disadvantage is that system inefficiencies may require more transmitter power. A simple theory for directional couplers is provided, and the theoretical results are compared with measurements from a model 3-phase transmission circuit."
"This bibliography presents references to significant literature in the field of Power System Communications from 1955 to 1964. The references are classified according to subject matter and listed chronologically."
"A transistorized relay recently installed to predict generation instability resulting from major system disturbances is described. The relay can be used to initiate corrective measures, such as generation tripping or dynamic braking, to maintain stability. Several advantages over the present methods of initiating corrective action are obtained by use of this relay."
"The determination of the ratio and phase-angle errors of a phase-shifting transformer is quite difficult without special test equipment of adequate sensitivity and precision. Although formulas for the calculation of these errors in two winding potential transformers are available, they cannot easily be applied to the interconnected autotransformers used for phase shifting. This paper demonstrates a method for calculation of these errors by the application of Thevenin's Theorem."
"The two aspects of engineering education are the teaching of science and the teaching of design. By ``design'' is meant the procedure of selecting and combining distinct elements to create complete systems which will perform useful functions. In this paper, the author describes the application of this concept of design teaching at The Technical University of Denmark, after a procedure which includes a sequence of closed and open design projects in both computational and experimental laboratories."
"Many problems of insulation coordination are concerned with the protection of an air gap by means of another air gap: protection of the external insulation of a bushing by means of a rod gap, protection of line-to-tower insulation by means of the ground hardware of an insulator string, protection of the open gap of a switch by means of the line-to-ground insulation of the stack, etc. When dealing with stresses caused by switching surges, the inherent dispersion of the dielectric characteristics of the air gaps, i.e., the probability of sparkover and the times-to-sparkover, is such that these problems must be approached with statistical methods. Furthermore, since the designer is interested in the probable number of sparkovers per year and not in the absolute probability of sparkover, the number and the distribution of the stresses which the electric system applies to the insulation considered must be taken into account. This paper intends to provide a tool to the designer and to show how it works by applying the suggested method to the coordination of two rod gaps. In the case examined, the necessary quantitative knowledge will be determined by laboratory tests or taken from previous system studies."
"This paper develops a theoretical method which leads to an efficient practical one and provides a mathematical basis for establishing EHV switching-surge ratings. Detailed analyses of the major factors involved in EHV testing are presented. Application of statistical and probability mathematics to the test results indicates the necessity of a rigorous evaluation of the test data and the need for defining the environmental differences between laboratories. Statements of rating include references to error factors and the degree of confidence that a particular series of test results have a certain probability of occurrence."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A 5-year field investigation of lightning-stroke characteristics and effects on transmission lines was conducted by means of kineklydonographs (KKs) and other instruments. Results disclosed that characteristics differ in several important respects from previous concepts still widely accepted, and therefore warrant a new survey of line design practices leading to suggested methods for improvements. The initial rates of rise of stroke current are much steeper than is generally believed and tend to be uniform, independent of the current crest. This emphasizes the importance of low tower surge impedance, low tower height, multiple ground wires, and counterpoises. Induced voltages also appear to be more significant than previously believed and, hence, may merit preventive measures."
"In the transmission-line study, masts were attached to the tower tops, connected to the towers by resistors, around which were connected kineklydonorgraphs (KKs). Only mast current, if struck, was recorded in the beginning. Later, ground wires were insulated from the towers in several installations, but were again connected to the towers through resistors shunted by KKs. Information on characteristics of currents in strokes to the masts was thus recorded, as were currents from ground wires to towers and vice versa. Large current changes in time intervals of 0.05 μs were registered. Electric field gradients, the occurrence of nearby strokes, and corona currents were recorded also. Five utilities in Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York participated. A tall building in Pittsburgh, surmounted by a 50-foot insulated mast, was equipped with all the recording devices used by cooperating companies."
"Seventeen negative strokes to transmission towers and the Cathedral of Learning (CL) in Pittsburgh, Pa., have been recorded. The crest currents ranged from 11 to 50 kA. Only one positive stroke of 80 kA appeared; it was at the CL. The greatest rate of change of stroke current recorded was 230 kA/μs during an interval of 0.05 μs. All stroke currents had approximately the same rate of rise during given time intervals. Measurement of ground wire current enabled determination of tower-top potentials which resulted almost entirely from the tower surge impedance, since tower footing resistances were low. There is evidence that induction from passing leaders and strokes to earth nearby will produce high voltage on exposed conductors. Records of field gradients accompanying nearby strokes showed as much as 120 kV/m."
"The results of recently reported experiments on vibrating conductors have shown a proportionality between dynamic flexural strain and differential displacement, or bending amplitude, for individual cables. A mathematical solution defining the relationship has been formulated. The analytic solution shows the relationship to be dependent upon conductor tension and flexural rigidity and is linear except for high frequencies when the loop lengths are short in relation to the deflection arm of the measuring instrument. Experimental data from three laboratories are in good agreement with the analytic solution. The nonlinearity of individual strain-displacement tests on stranded cables shows need to further investigate the flexural rigidity of multiwire construction."
"It is possible to obtain ferroresonant overvoltages during single-phase switching of distribution transformer banks. When energizing the bank with single-pole devices at higher distribution voltage, the internal winding capacitances of ungrounded wye-delta banks can react with the bank saturation characteristics producing high sustained overvoltages. Transient network analyzer (TNA) studies have determined the necessary conditions for the occurrence of the phenomena and have investigated remedies. One promising solution is the substitution of wye-wye grounded banks for the ungrounded wye-delta banks on 19.9/34.5-kV distribution circuits."
"Switching surge tests performed on simulated tower-insulator systems representative of possible 345- and 500-kV transmission line designs were performed so that line design parameters could be estimated for a specific value of switching surge overvoltage. Switching surge studies of the Southern California Edison Company (SCE) 500-kV transmission system dictated that the switching surge withstand strength for wet conditions should be 1065 kV. From the design-application curves, the center phase of the SCE 500-kV transmission tower-insulator system was designed to have a 12-foot 8-inch minimum horizontal strike distance and 27 insulators used in a 90-degree V-string configuration. Full-scale tower tests confirmed the switching surge design criteria."
"This paper describes the results of sparkover tests made with impulse voltages and switching surges for large gap spacings and long insulator strings under both dry and wet conditions. The tests were conducted at the Shiobara Outdoor Laboratory; a 10 000-kV 750-kJ surge generator was used."
"This paper describes the results of field investigations of the attenuation of short-tail traveling waves (wave-tail time 1-4 μs) on overhead transmission lines. A theoretical analysis of the methods for calculating this attenuation and distortion is also presented. Short-tail traveling waves can be calculated by harmonic analysis through the use of the attenuation data on high-frequency signals. It is difficult, however, to find an adequate theoretical equation."
"While spacer-type aerial cable has been relatively immune to storm and tree hazards, many instances of failure caused by lightning surges have been experienced by the Public Service Electric and Gas Company. To determine the estimated lightning performance of this type of distribution system, a program of field tests, laboratory tests, and analytical computations was performed. This paper presents the results of the field and laboratory tests, with performance curves for various lightning arrester applications. This work is one of several such studies initiated by the Public Service Electric and Gas Company."
"This paper describes the relay protection applied by TVA to large steam turbine-generator units, including the main power transformer and its connections. The basic philosophy underlying relay applications is given, and the interrelations between generator protective relays and those on the station equipment and connecting transmission lines are included. The relation of protection to generator types is shown, and the performance record of the protective relay is presented for electrical faults that have occurred on the TVA system's 50 steam units, ranging in size from 125- to 700-MW capability. Practices relating to the electrical transmission system and those differing from conventional ones are emphasized. The mechanical protection afforded for the steam generator and steam turbine and their appurtenances required for unit operation is described."
"The 6-stand hot strip finishing mill planned by Algoma Steel would impose frequent swings on the utility tie line of 41 MW and 41 Mvar. Each swing would occur over a 10-second interval. To avoid these swings on the utility tie, a steam power plant rated 25 MW continuous with features permitting peak cyclic loading to 41 MW and 41 Mvar was installed. Special megawatt and megavar controls vary the power plant output to match the varying input to the strip mill. High-speed recordings of plant performance during strip mill operation are included. This is believed to be one of the few, if not the only, steam power plants operating in this manner."
"The emergence of engineering from a craft into a profession requires supplementing the knowledge and skills of the craft with those management skills which constitute the professional interface between engineering and the needs of the society. This is singularly characteristic of the electric power industry which is organized, implemented, and managed by engineers having a wide diversity of specialized engineering knowledge. The prerequisites of scholarship and professional skill are discussed, including suggestions for continuing development, with examples of the respective roles of the engineering educator, the engineer, and his professional peers."
"In the fall of 1963, two extended steady-state stability tests were conducted on a 532 000-kW cross-compound steam turbine-generator at the Will County Station of the Commonwealth Edison Company. These tests followed a series of analytical studies conducted from 1961 through 1963, and aimed at predicting extended steady-state stability limits. In the 1950s, similar tests had been conducted on smaller tandem steam turbine-generators and on hydrogenerators. The subject report is the first documentation of tests conducted on cross-compound turbine-generator sets. In addition, studies and tests were conducted to confirm steady-state stability limits in the generator overexcited region (lagging power factor operation). Operation in this region may occur with extra long transmission lines or weak interconnections between the unit and the power system."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The analysis of the pulling-into-step phenomena of salient-pole synchronous motors with dc field excitation gives unsatisfactory results when applied to reluctance motors (without dc field excitation). This difficulty can be overcome by taking the dynamics of the system into full consideration. By considering the rotor, the coupling, and the load as one dynamic system, satisfactory results can be obtained. It is found that the rigidity of the coupling plays a major role in the synchronization process. The analysis can be readily programmed on an analog computer and the effects of the various system parameters studied. Boundaries for the parameters within which synchronization takes place can be obtained; outside these boundaries the reluctance motor fails to pull-into-step."
"The matrix theory of electric machines is based on the assumption of magnetically linear iron. This paper removes the linearity assumption at the start, while permitting its reintroduction at a later stage as a computational simplification. A definition is given for inductance in the nonlinear case that leads to single-valued continuous inductances, with reciprocal mutual inductances. The resulting differential equations are solved to give a method for determining the inductances associated with any machine. The torque of a slip-ring machine is then expressed in terms of its inductance matrix. The expression is shown to reduce to the usual result in the special case of a linear machine, and to predict, with a high degree of accuracy, the torque of a small heavily saturated experimental machine."
"The retarding torque of an eddy-current brake is calculated as function of the angular velocity of the rotor and of the stator dc magnetizing current. The electromagnetic field components are found in the rotor medium by solving the field equations. Integration of the power flow vector E X H over the rotor surface yields the total retarding power of the brake. The nonlinear nature of the B-H curve of the rotor iron is allowed for by assuming a variable permeability μ(x) = μseλx, where x is the coordinate inside the rotor, λ is a constant, and μs is the initial permeability at the rotor surface. Variable permeability, μ(x) is an increasing function of x so that inside the rotor, where saturation is lower, the permeability becomes higher. This assumption is correct at the first approximation only, as the differential equations for the field components are linear with variable coefficients. Thus, an analytical solution can be found in terms of known functions. It is shown that the retarding torque is proportional to Iμ3/2, where Iμ is the dc magnetizing current."
"After a transient disturbance in a power system, some of the generators will have advanced in phase and some will have been retarded in phase. The deviation from steady-state operation can be removed in minimum time by optimal nonlinear bang-bang control. For each generator whose phase has advanced, the optimal control consists of exciting the field with maximum voltage, followed by a period of reversed voltage on the generator field, a period of maximum positive voltage on the generator field, and then a return to normal excitation. This sequence is controlled by nonlinear decision functions which obtain their information from the state of the system. The most desirable state variables are shaft angle, shaft velocity, and field current. Experimental tests have shown significant increases in transient stability [1]-[3]."
"Based on a theory presented by Ahamed and Erdélyi [1], a method has been developed to find the magnetic flux densities in the air gaps, armatures, poles, and frames of dc machines, taking full account of nonlinearity caused by saturation. A digital computer program to obtain the no-load characteristics of large compensated dc machines is given and applied in analyzing 500-hp, 4-pole dc motors. Computer results agree well with tests."
"An internal fault in the armature winding of a synchronous machine occurs at the breakdown of either the minor insulation (turn-to-turn fault) or the major insulation (phase-to-ground fault). The faulty synchronous machine is represented by an equivalent circuit in three symmetrical components which can be connected to the corresponding network. The fault currents can be calculated from the obtained equivalent network. The calculation of internal fault currents has been programmed for the IBM 7090 digital computer, and the calculated values have been compared with the experimental results."
"The main and leakage inductances are found from the flux linkages with the short-circuited part of the armature winding. The mutual inductances between the short-circuited part of the armature winding and the remaining part of the armature and rotor windings are proportional to the main inductance. A synchronous machine with a single phase-to-ground fault embracing a number of turns, Nf, can be regarded as an imaginary symmetrical machine having the armature winding with Nf turns in each phase and the same rotor construction as the actual machine. With such a provision, the synchronous and subtransient inductances of a part of the armature winding can be determined by the general theory of a synchronous machine. The damping of harmonic fluxes by currents in the short-circuited rotor winding is taken into consideration by the calculation of the subtransient inductances. The measurements of the subtransient reactances of portions of the armature winding have been performed on a synchronous machine. The calculated subtransient inductances deviate from the measured values; however, they can be used for the internal fault calculations within the permissible engineering accuracy."
"Carbon brush contact has been included as part of the commutation problem study since the beginning. The current conduction into commutator copper via the carbon brushes is not simple. Whereas brush contact conduction on a slip ring is uniform and depends on few factors, the conduction phenomenon on the commutator has a variety of associated problems, attributable not only to the nature and properties of the brush itself (including brush pressure), but also upon the parameters of the machine coils into which the current is directed, and upon machine speed. The complication is known to be caused by short-circuiting of one or more of the coils by the brush face, and current change in the coil cannot take place without its stored inductive energy being destroyed. Usually, the coil currents cannot change and build up to their new value within the time of short circuit, and the remaining uncommutated current sends an arc from the trailing edge to leaving segment. However, the are formation is sometimes facilitated by the prearcing period voltage rise. In what follows, a complete picture of the formation and rupture of the arc and the effects of associated parameters, of both the brush and machine, on the commutated current, is attempted and substantiated by detailed oscillograms of the process."
"High-resistivity films thicker than 50 angstroms, which are present in a sliding contact between a graphite brush and a copper ring, are fritted at very small currents. Two kinds of fritting are observed: 1) when the copper is anodic, metallic bridges through the film between members are formed (the minimum field strength is approximately 4X104 volts per cm); and 2) when the copper is cathodic, the film is pulled away by electric forces to make place for a smaller spot which conducts more current. Bridge formation during sliding requires overvoltages because the time is too short for equilibrium states. The consequence on anodic copper is oxidation (limited by wear) of the clean cuts of broken bridges and fritting of overvoltages 1-1.5 volts above a basic level Uo. However, the contact spots on cathodic copper are protected against oxidation by a tunnel conducting film, and U remains constant at Uo. The metallic bridges are responsible for the great wear on the cathodic brush."
"Power system frequency has developed on a 50-cycle basis in northern Japan and on a 60-cycle basis in the south. Past efforts to unify the frequency have been unsuccessful. Both systems have now developed to the extent that this is now virtually impossible. To obtain the advantages of interconnection, despite this handicap, modern high-voltage dc techniques are used. In a single station, 50-cycle power is converted to direct current and direct current to 60 cycles (or vice versa). This is, in effect, a de transmission system without a line. However, location of both rectifiers and inverters in the same station permits some simplification over a conventional dc tie."
"The Working Group on Project 59.1 of the Transmission Substations Subcommittee of the IEEE Substations Committee is preparing a Guide for Minimum Electrical Clearances for Substations. This paper presents an interim report of tentative recommendations for clearances in substations rated 230 kV and higher, and based on switching surge considerations. Clearances for line-to-ground insulation systems have been based upon rod-to-plane switching surge test data. Phase-to-phase clearances have been based on rod-to-rod switching surge test data. Clearances are determined for a variety of switching surge levels and probabilities that the maximum transient voltage will be withstood."
"A battery-powered solid-state 6-channel transient-voltage counter was developed which can detect transient voltages with durations as short as 20ns. This counter is sensitive to transient voltages of both polarities and has threshold levels from 50 to 300 volts, which can be altered by either internal biasing or external attenuators. It weighs about 13.5 pounds, and its dimensions are 15 by 6 by 7 inches. The counter has been extensively used wherever it has been possible to reproduce the switching of locomotive and rapid transit car control systems. It has also been utilized in detecting transients generated in the rapid transit systems in New York."
"The testing of lightning arresters has been reasonably well defined by ASA C62.1-1962, but the comparatively recent development of current limiting arresters makes it necessary to re-examine some industry standards to determine whether they provide adequate proof of current limiting arrester performance. The duty cycle test requires revision because it does not subject lightning arresters to a rate-of-rise of current comparable with what might be obtained in service. Tests must be made with higher rates-of-rise to insure that failure of loss of protective characteristics will not occur under actual service conditions."
"This paper presents the results of switching surge tests on a 119-mile 345-kV circuit. For various methods of terminal switching, probability analysis is made of the magnitude and frequency of occurrence of transient and dynamic voltages when energizing the circuit through an autotransformer from systems with different soure impedances. Test results are compared with results of a model study on the same circuit. The good performance of current-limiting gap arresters is demonstrated in oscillographs showing arrester sparkover levels, discharge currents, reseal times, and reignition phenomena. The duration of dynamic voltages and the exposure of arresters to dynamic voltages above arrester rating are demonstrated. Data are presented on the transient performance and arcing period of 345-kV double-break disconnects when switching magnetizing currents of 200- and 400-MVA autotransformers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper describes two methods for computing economic loading schedules of electric power systems in which the generator cost curves may be approximated with third-degree polynomials of the form Fj = A3jpj3+ A2jpj2+A1jPj+A0j with constraints Pminj≤Pj≤Pmaxj, where Fj is the cost of generation in dollars per hour at unit j, Pj is the output power in megawatts at unit j, and A0j, A1j, A2j, A3j are constants for unit j. The effect of using extrapolation or interpolation in the iterative solution of the economic loading equations is treated in detail, including the effect of changes in system loading and in the magnitude of the loss formula coefficients."
"The use of familiar dispatch relationships for economic dispatch is broadened to encompass all the dispatch requirements of a system which is made up of pumped hydro storage, conventional stored hydro, steam units, and extensive storage make a ``predispatch'' determination of optimum schedules for all hours of the entire day extremely important. The use of standard dispatch equations is made possible by the added concept of water ``worth vs cost.'' Practical application techniques are described. The execution of these dispatch techniques is enhanced by the use of a digital-analog dispatch computer."
"There is a great variety of agreements and contracts governing the interconnections between electric utilities. Some of the variation is due to differing conditions and some is the result of independent approach to similar problems. This paper reviews the reasons for different philosophies and forms of contracts and suggests ways of covering special problems. An outline of the fundamental requirements for a contract is included."
"This paper first discusses the effect of limited energy hydro capacity, including pump-storage hydro capacity, on system installed capacity requirements, showing that, for a combined thermal and hydro system, the capacity value of the hydro depends primarily on the reduction in the maximum thermal generation requirements that can be effected over the heavier daily peak load hours. Such determinations are inseparable from the load characteristics and the effect of prior installed limited energy capacity. Second, a mathematical basis is presented for the evaluation of the relative economics of alternative potential pump-storage sites based on operating requirements, and for the determination of the most economical size of development for various conditions."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The Apple Grove 750-kV project, jointly sponsored by American Electric Power Service Corporation and Westinghouse Electric Corporation, with six other participating companies, was designed to provide data on corona loss and radio influence performance of conductors at a nominal voltage of 750 kV and to determine the technical and economic feasibility of transmitting power at this extra-high-voltage. The project also incorporates facilities for studying conductor configuration, insulator assemblies, spacers, connectors, splices, hardware, and steel structures. Operating experience has been gained on a 750-kV transformer, lightning arresters, coupling capacitors, and line traps, as well as on a typical 500-kV line design. This paper describes equipment design, instrumentation, and special project features, such as the determination of conductor performance on a statistical basis by the use of simultaneous comparison under the same environmental conditions."
"Rational design of extra-high-voltage systems depends on analytic studies to predict switching surge overvoltage magnitude and probability, and on laboratory tests for tower system switching surge withstand capability. Laboratory tests have been confined to ideal waveforms applied to single window configurations. Correlation with flashover performance of a typical 3-phase installation exposed to actual switching surge waveforms is attempted. The influence of interphase coupling and multiple circuit breaker operations in promoting multiphase flashover, which may curtail system performance margins, is also studied."
"This paper describes extensive radio influence and corona loss measurements made for the Apple Grove 500-kV test line which utilized 2-conductor bundles of 1.602-inch (Chukar) subconductors. The Apple Grove extra-high-voltage test project is a joint research project sponsored by the American Electric Power Service Corporation and Westinghouse Electric Corporation with six other participating companies. The data are analyzed for use with automatically recorded statistical data to predict the performance of a long transmission line of the same conductor configuration operating under a similar environment. A measurement technique is described and used to determine the relative radio influence field strength from each of the phases."
"This paper gives the results to date of radio influence and corona loss tests performed at a voltage of 775 kV at the extra-high-voltage test project at Apple Grove, W. Va., a joint research project sponsored by the American Electric Power Service Corporation and Westinghouse Electric Corporation with six other participating companies. Effects of line radio-influence terminations and larger centerphase conductors are discussed. Radio influence and corona loss results are given for there test lines utilizing 4-conductor bundles with subconductor diameters of 1.0, 1.196, and 1.382 inches."
"Representative unmodified transient recovery voltages (TRVs) of power systems have been selected to derive the recovery voltage ratings for power circuit breakers. Mathematical expressions have been derived that combine fundamental system parameters such as load current, line impedancee, voltage regulation, and transformer reactance, together with the rated voltage and circuit interrupting capabilities of the breaker, to describe the TRV withstand requirements for power circuit breakers. Two points in a volt-time plane are developed to describe the TRV withstand requirements of power breakers, and numerical values are listed for these proposed rating values. The TRV ratings for fault currents less than rated currents and for kilometric short line faults are also developed. Since the expressions developed describe system recovery voltages, they may also be used to calculate the TRV of actual power systems."
"Accurate measurement of active and reactive power is becoming increasingly important as problems of process-energy balance become more complicated and cost savings receive more critical attention. In large electrical systems, very special attention must be given to these measurements to maintain losses at a minimum. In the modern panoramic control unit with its attendant off-limit alarms, digital display of these power values is highly desirable. However, because of the nonlinearity of one of the three variables (the product of which defines the power value), direct digital measurements present difficulties. Conventional solid-state digital voltmeter equipment allows the construction of voltage and resistance parameters in a straightforward manner. The third parameter, the sine or cosine of the electrical angle, is a nonlinear function and, therefore, requires more elaborate measuring equipment."
"As system interconnections have become more numerous, interconnection contracts have reflected the need to take more factors into account. To be successful, contracts must provide benefits for all parties; they must be definite enough to prevent misunderstandings and flexible enough to be applicable to changing system conditions. These objectives may often be obtained by statements of principles and policies and by the use of formulas in lieu of specific rates and service requirements."
"Utilization of load diversity between power systems can result primarily in 1) a savings in capacity requirements as a result of reduced generating-capacity needs, and 2) a reduction in daily operating costs as a result of economy energy transactions between load areas and lowered spinning-reserve requirements (startup and shutdown costs). However, the arithmetic difference between simultaneous and nonsimultaneous load data is not proof that this total diversity can be used to reduce the cost of service. This paper examines the many factors which must be taken into consideration when evaluating the use of both annual and daily diversity."
"This paper describes the application of reliability calculation techniques presented in a companion paper [1] to actual power system networks. A digital computer program to facilitate reliability calculations is described, and a comparison of calculated and observed reliability on an actual system is presented."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Corona detection in liquid-filled transformers is becoming recognized as a significant means of ascertaining the integrity of the insulation system. One shortcoming of detectors previously used was their limitation in indicating only the presence or absence of corona without regard to physical location. Techniques have been developed now to utilize the grossly different travel times of the electrical and pressure signals produced by a corona discharge to determine the location of the source. The high-frequency electrical signal arrives at the transformer terminals instantaneously and triggers the oscilloscope sweep. Pressure waves, traveling at much slower speeds through the insulation, arrive at the transducer and are converted to electric signals, which are displayed as the vertical deflection on the oscilloscope screen. The time interval between the start of the oscilloscope sweep and the first vertical deflection is a measure of the distance between the corona source and pressure transducer. Triangulation procedures may be required to discern the exact location of the corona source. These procedures may be used during factory insulation tests or on transformers operating in the field."
"Analysis of resonant measuring circuits is given for measurement of corona in transformers, using a bushing capacitor tap connection and a narrow frequency band corona meter. The use of the bushing tap connection and an induced test voltage simplify the test setup. They eliminate the need for corona-free high-voltage connections and for the high-voltage coupling capacitor. Furthermore, in most cases it permits corona testing without the facilities of a shielded room. The use of the resonant measuring circuit greatly improves the sensitivity of corona measurement when the bushing tap connection is used. The circuit may be readily calibrated to render the same numerical values of corona microvolts as the standard National Electrical Manufacturing Association test, yet with a greatly simplified test setup."
"Five different oxidation-inhibited oils and one non-inhibited oil were subjected to more than ten years of simulated service aging tests in 10-kVA transformers. The oils were aged in six conservator-type and four sealed gas-blanketed transformers. The purpose of these studies was to determine the performance of these oils in oxidation-protected transformers. All the oils remained serviceable throughout the 10-year aging period, but showed marked differences in quality in the final test period during which six of the transformers were opened and operated as free-breathing transformers."
"A method of corona measurement on high-voltage apparatus which uses the capacitance tap of the entrance bushing as a coupling element is described. The advantage of this method is that it produces a 1-to-1 calibration ratio for most cases by the use of compensating elements at the measuring frequency. Since the high-voltage coupling capacitor is eliminated, the test circuitry is simplified, and the time and effort normally required for this type of measurement is reduced. Theoretical and factual data are given to support the use of this method as an alternative to NEMA Standard Publication 107, 1940 and 1964."
"To obtain fundamental information concerning distribution transformer load characteristics, a major study was undertaken by the General Electric Company, together with 55 electric utility companies. Monthly readings of load data were obtained in the field, using especially designed test kits installed at distribution transformers serving predominantly residential loads. Significant results, in terms of national average annual data, are summarized in percentages as: power factor, 92.5; load factor, 26.6; loss factor, 10.5; and peak load, 13.2. Load and loss factors are lower than previously estimated; power factors are higher. Values of the standard deviation associated with each of the averages were calculated. It is significant that, for the first time, a degree-of-uncertainty factor associated with load characteristics and with calculations based on load characteristics has been identified on the basis of statistical analysis. The information derived should be useful to the electric industry because it provides greater knowledge of the most fundamental component of the electric system, i.e., the load itself."
"The ring-type transformer (or reactor) built with an iron core of rectangular cross-sectional area is, by a very considerable margin, the most widely used ring-type electromagnetic device because of its simplicity. An exact formula is derived for computing its leakage reactance. Computation can easily be carried out by an IBM 1620 digital computer."
"A new static magnetic constant-current device is described. Its output may be ac or dc, according to connection. Very good results have benn obtained for various loads. Experimental results are given. The performance of dc and ac motors with this devices is described."
"Results of incipient fault tests of several thousand power transformers are described. The tests were made with the first practical method and a new instrument for measuring total combustible gas (TCG) in the gas space above the oil in transformers. Useful up-to-date information is presented on instrument sensitivity and calibration, effect of gas contaminants, reading reproducibility, sampling methods, classification and interpretation of TCG readinigs, and comparison of the TCG method with separate analysis of gas components. A tabular report of a field survey of TCG tests on transformers is made. A comprehensive bibliography is given. Recent data on application of the method to vented or free-breathing transformers are also presented."
"There is an increased interest among transformer users in radio influence voltage measurements during routine commercial testing. This paper describes a procedure for determining the presence of corona under oil for transformers. An oscillographic record taken in conjunction with conventional radio influence voltage tests distinguishes between corona in oil which causes progressive deterioration of insulation and corona in air which does not. The data also shows that for high-voltage transformers, the transformer bushing with its capacitance tap provides a suitable coupling capacitor for radio influence voltage tests."
"An economic overhead electric power transmission system which produces no radio influence is beyond the present state of the art. However, sound engineering and attention to relevant aspects of design can produce a system having an acceptable (or tolerable) influence level. Such criteria as have been proved by research or experience together with accepted practices in instrumentation and measurement of radio influence fields are presented as an aid in planning extra-high-voltage lines. Because of the many variables and parameters that influence radio noise from power lines, and because the level of a line varies with location and time, it is not presently possible to submit specific desigin criteria. Revisions in thinking in some aspects of the problem may be anticipated as operating experience is gained at the new extra-high-voltage levels."
"The electrical insulation design of a proposed Northern States Power Company 345-kV wood-pole transmission line was examined, using statistical methods employed in the METIFOR program [1], introduced in 1964. These techniques, when incorporated with other methods of analysis, gave a predicted outage performance evaluation for this new line, which would interconnect Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minn., with Milwaukee, Wis., and Chicago, Ill. The techniques employed also afford a more comprehensive analysis of the performance of existing lines when uprated to a higher voltage class."
"R.L. Swart, co-author with J.C. Poffenberger of the paper \"Differential Displacement and Dynamic Conductor Strain,\" a discussion of which appeared on pp. 508-513 of the June 1965 issue of these Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. In regard to Figs. 5 and 6, the captions are in the correct place, but the figures should be interchanged. In Fig. 7, the test tension was 30 percent rather than 15 percent."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Two 115-kV submarine cable crossings were recently completed by Puget Sound Power and Light Company under deep channels of Puget Sound. One was 14 100 feet long with a maximum depth of 720 feet. The other was 6400 feet long with a maximum depth of 388 feet. Laying directly from the factory reels proved satisfactory for the shorter crossing, but trouble was experienced with the cables of the deeper crossing. Here, there was kinking on a steep downhill slope. This was discovered at a depth of 350 feet, by means of a submersible television. The cables were raised and repaired by making up a flexible splice capable of laying tensions and passage over drum and sheave. They have been in continuous successful operation since November 1962."
"115-kV lengths of oil-filled submarine cable were manufactured. Tests on samples from the center of 12 800-foot lengths were equal to tests on short lengths. Oil flow tests conducted in the factory and field tests of oil pressure are compared with calculated data. A flexible splice for emergency use was designed and tested."
"Viscosity and dielectric loss of insulating liquids have been recognized as exponential functions of temperature; however, sufficient coordinated proof was previously unavailable. This study correlates and analyzes the theoretical predictions with available experimental results and, also, clarifies the importance of the concept of the ion content of insulating liquids as an indication of electrical purity and insulating quality, as proposed by Whitehead. The evidence that temperature increases the ion content and decreases the effectiveness of an insulating liquid, and the relationships between them, are practical tools for electrical design considerations. The postulation that the viscosity, power factor, and ion content of an insulating liquid originates from an identical mechanism relating to temperature may open up new approaches for further research leading to a better understanding of dielectric loss in liquid insulators."
"The determination of the short-time transient temperature rises of self-contained oil-filled cable systems, which is a necessary part of the calculation of their oil demands and pressures, requires finding the roots of an equation involving Bessel functions. Families of curves are presented from which the roots may be obtained by simple calculations for any given cable system, together with other necessary parameters. These parameters, when substituted in the equations presented, yield the unit transient temperature rises and oil demands and, also, the maximum oil demand when dropping a sustained load of a determined critical value."
"A study was carried out on the corona discharge rate and energy loss occurring within artificial cavities. An air gap with metallic electrodes was utilized to simulate the ionization sources within a cable. The corona discharge rates, obtained with varying gap spacings under different vapor pressures, showed marked deviations from the idealized behavior. thhe calculated tangent δ values, in terms of the pulsed corona energy loss for the tested cable-cavity combinations, were found to agree reasonably with those determined experimentally."
"Concrete mixes that are especially applicable to underground conduit-line construction are evaluated. Concretes in-herently release free lime which, in sufficient concentration, is corrosive to lead cable sheaths. Varying amounts of fly ash were used in trial concrete mixes, and the resulting reduction in free lime release was measured. A calcium lignosulfonate type of dispersing agent was added to some mixes, and concrete thermal resistivities for various mixes are reported. The effects of extremely wet and dry conditions, as limiting cases for thermal resistivity, are shown."
"Lightning and other surges have been a major problem on aerial cable systems connected to open-wire lines. In 1957, an experimental cable line with variation in shield construction was installed in an area with high lightning incidence. This paper reports the service and test record of the line. In seven years, the line has suffered 19 test failures and one service failure. These failures occurred first and most frequently on cables having relatively high shield impedance."
"Circulation of oil in pipe-type feeders has been employed, to a limited extent, to accomplish either of the following two objectives: 1) temperature-averaging to minimize the effect of unknown hot-spot zones, or 2) an increase in circuit capacity above the self-cooled level. This paper reports, in two sections, on both types of application, which were initiated in 1952 and carried out subsequently on an increasing scale. Particular attention is givein to a large program of 138-and 345-kV pipe-type feeder installations."
"In 1962, the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies and the Insulator Power Cable Engineers Association sanctioned 10°C higher conductor temperatures for use in rating calculations by utilities having thorough knowledge of the thermal characteristics of the soil in which a particular cable is to be installed. A 2-stage sampling scheme is described for obtaining such knowledge with a minimum amount of time and effort. The first stage consists of a qualitative identification of the types of soil which occur throughout the cable route. The second stage comprises a series of tests on a prescribed number of soil samples. This procedure yields an upper value of soil thermal resistivity for a given percentile of the soil at a specific confidence level."
"Surface discharge phenomena associated with unshielded nonmetallic sheathed power cables, particularly in the 3000- to 15 000-volt classifications, have been the subject of considerable research. These cables have induced surface voltages which are responsible for surface leakage currents and associated surface discharges, which combine to form a phenomenon generally referenced as surface-tracking, particularly in the presence of wetted surface contaminants. Unpigmented polyethylenes are highly resistant to surface tracking. However, when formulated for protection from sunlight and weathering, the discharge resistance may be materially reduced. This paper describes the development and evaluation of discharge-resistant thermoplastic or chemically cross-linked polyethylenes."
"The reactive power flow in utility systems produces losses which utility engineers try to keep at a minimum with the installation of capacitor banks. Load flow studies usually furnish a good indication of where they will render maximum benefit. In many instances, they can be installed on primary feeders. A study is made of the optimum location, size, and timing of capacitor banks on feeders with uniformly distributed loads and randomly distributed variable spot loads to evaluate the reduction in costs of active and reactive losses where voltage regulation is no problem. A new simplifying principle is established, taking moments of the loads with respect to feeder resistances or reactances. The equations developed can be used in preparing computer programs for capacitor applications."
"A method is presented for calculating the radio noise level of a transmission line where the radio noise generation is produced by corona on station apparatus. Propagation of the radio noise energy is described by a set of noninteracting transmission modes. Field factors which transfer line voltages to electric-field values at the ground level are presented as modal quantities. Two specific examples are computed for an extra-high-voltage line and station arrangement."
"This paper presents a practical design for unbalanced insulation of transmission lines and describes lightning performances on 70- and 140-kV lines. The basic practice of unbalanced insulation is to install one circuit at a higher insulation level than another circuit in order to eliminate double-circuit flashover. The effectiveness of this design was demonstrated by laboratory tests and field experiences. Double-circuit flashover should be considerably decreased when the unbalanced insulation line is properly designed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"An analysis of a coherent two-way (transponder) Doppler communication system composed of a ground transmitter, a spacecraft transponder, and a ground receiver has been made to determine the effects of VCO phase and thermal phase noise at the ground receiver output (See Fig. 2). This system is typical of those used on lunar and planetary space programs. The analysis shows that the phase noise contribution of the ground receiver's VCO is inversely proportional to the ground receiver's noise bandwidth [See (15)]. Further it has been shown that the spacecraft VCO phase noise, spacecraft thermal phase noise, and ground receiver thermal phase noise are all functions of the ratio of transponder-to-ground-receiver noise bandwidths [See (13), (4) and (5)]. All the relationships were derived using complex integration techniques."
"This paper presents detailed results on the relative merits of encoding blocks of binary digits into a set of equiprobable, equal energy, orthogonal signals each containing n bits of information. During a time interval of T seconds, one signal from this set is selected and transmitted over the ``Rician'' channel, further perturbed by additive white Gaussian noise and noncoherently detected at the receiver by matched filters and follow-up envelope detectors. Word and bit error probabilities (and bounds on these) are graphically illustrated for various degrees of coding and for various forms of the channel model. Particular emphasis is placed on the Gaussian channel. Special cases of Viterbi's results for coded phase-coherent communications are compared with those obtained in this paper. Bandwidth considerations are also discussed. The results are useful to the engineer who is faced with the problem of designing coded communication systems where power is limited to the point that phase coherence cannot be established at the receiver. Typical examples are space communications where it is desired to telemeter scientific data from small scientific satellites or space probes or for scatter-channel links which are to be used for relaying data between two widely separated points on the earth."
"The Air Force Eastern Test Range (ETR) is, in essence, a huge laboratory extending from the Florida mainland to the Indian Ocean. It is instrumented to collect, record, analyze and communicate data for missile and space missions. This is achieved through a variety of highly sophisticated electronic and optical techniques. It is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly some of this primary instrumentation which provides the highly precise metric data used in direct support of the operational mission, for Range safety and for postflight evaluation. The instrumentation and data accuracy problems will be explored together with the current methods of approach. General categories of errors will be defined, and the applications of error models and error budgets to the controlling of instrumentation accuracies will be presented. Methods of combining outputs of various instrumentation systems will be discussed with reference to the best estimate of trajectory. The general problem of instrumentation calibration is also considered, including the experimental design and the type of tests employed. The basic causes of accuracy degradation in the instrumentation systems are reviewed, including errors introduced in data handling and processing."
"A new strategy for extracting the delay parameter τ from observed data of the form s(t - τ) + n(t), where s(t) is a deterministic signal and n(t) is a sample function from an arbitrary random process, is presented and analyzed. The strategy requires no a priori statistics of the delay parameter and only second-order statistics (the autocorrelation function) of the additive noise process. The strategy involves correlating the received data with the sum of the properly weighted signal derivatives or, alternately, passing the observed data into a linear filter matched to the sum of the properly weighted signal derivatives. The filter output is approximately given by the true signal delay plus a term due to the noise."
"A portion of an exploratory investigation conducted recently at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, Sunnyvale, Calif., into the comparative effectiveness of various prediction techniques for data compression is described. The comparisons were made by simulation with an IBM 7094 digital computer with the use of approximately 150,000 samples of actual vehicle telemetry data received during a typical satellite launching, in addition to synthetic telemetry data. The compression techniques discussed employed zero-, first-, and second-order polynomial predictors, or modifications thereof. The results showed that one of the zero-order techniques (one which would be relatively simple to implement) was the most effective in removing redundancy from the data. Although these data were somewhat limited both in scope and quantity, the results tend to support the oft-repeated objection to polynomial predictors that an inordinate amount of emphasis is given to sample points far removed from the point to be predicted, compared to that afforded the most recent samples."
"The definition and significance of oscillator stability continually arise in communication and radar system design. This paper relates the conventional definition of oscillator stability to the more fundamental frequency error process of the oscillator through an integral equation. Both short-and long-term stability are encompassed by the definition. Since in general the integral equation cannot be solved, certain frequency error processes are postulated, and the stability is derived therefrom."
"This paper presents a simple technique for improving the pull-in capability of phase-lock loops. This technique, called derived rate rejection or DRR, differs from those which use an external AFC loop in simplicity of implementation and design rationale, although the end result is the same. If, as is usually the case, a coherent detector accompanies the phase-lock loop, the implementation of the DRR technique requires only the addition of a switch. The switching logic results from a superficial consideration of the nonlinear equation for the phase-lock loop and its solution in the phase plane. The switch does not affect the normal behavior of the loop after lock has been attained. Results of computer studies show the improvement realizable for the following configurations: 1) Proportional-plus-integral control. 2) Proportional-plus-imperfect integral control. For an initial frequency error of five times the linearized phase lock-loop natural frequency, the improvement in pull-in time is a factor of two. For an initial frequency error of ten times the phase-lock loop natural frequency, the improvement in pull-in time is a factor of ten."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The advantages of a third-order phase-locked loop for FM television is considered here. The bandwidth is maintained small and since the operation is generally at frequencies small compared to the bandwidth, the criterion is to keep error as small as possible in this frequency range. A study is made by comparing second- and third-order phase-locked loops designed from Wiener filtering theory, as advanced by Jaffe and Rechtin [1]; considerable improvement in error is evident using a third-order phase-locked loop for frequencies up to about one-twentieth of the bandwidth. To improve the error function still further, a new error-function criterion is established whereby the error at the lower frequencies of interest is minimized. Such a minimum is obtained for both second- and third-order phase-locked loops. Transfer function behavior, transient response, and root locus plots of all these cases are given to emphasize the advantages of this new design. Error is reduced up to six decibels with no degradation of transient response, overshoot, etc. It is shown that the bandwidth can be reduced without increasing the error if the filter designed by this new criterion is used."
"In this paper we consider the problem of using signals received at three or four antennas to estimate the direction from which radio-frequency (RF) radiation is arriving. Though the results are couched in the terminology of angle measurements, they are applicable to any ambiguous measurements for which the number of ambiguities is inversely proportional to the accuracy. For an interferometric system the effect of receiver noise is examined. Then the optimum way to process the received waveforms, and the best spacing for the antennas, is determined. Next, signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) requirements are determined which must be met to insure that, with a given probability, the final unambiguous measurement is not in error by more than some specified amount. Finally, a comparison is made between a system which uses unambiguous measurements and a system which uses ambiguous measurements and then resolves the ambiguities."
"Mathematical expressions are obtained for FM and PM power spectra when the modulating waveform is a constantrate random sequence of nonoverlapping pulses with arbitrary shape and amplitude distribution. These expressions essentially reduce the computation of power spectrum to the computation of the average energy spectrum of a section of the wave only two pulses in length. The results are applied to the special PAM/FM case where the modulating pulses have a rectangular shape and uniformly distributed amplitude. Spectra are plotted for several values of the deviation ratio. Results are also given for the much simpler case of binary PAM/PM for arbitrary phase deviations."
"A closed-loop range-locked radar system developed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory has recently had great success range tracking the planet Venus. It has provided measurements to the planetary mean-tracking point with peak minute-to-minute variations less than 2.25 to 3 Km in range. Over a one-hour tracking period, a mean tracking point can be determined to 0.5 km. A scattering-law calibration of the planet is made each day, measuring the mean-tracking-point-to-planetary-surface distance to within 3 km (nominal). The subearth point-to-radar distance is thus measured to a nominal accuracy of 3.5 km. Tracking behaves as a first-order linear ``range-locked'' loop with ephemeris aid, and is practically calibration free. Data obtained during the 1964 conjunction showed that the ephemeris not only contained a range error, but also a range-rate error of 18 km per day. Deviations from this rate correspond to surface features whose height can be estimated. Such data will be invaluable in determining, to a greater degree of accuracy than ever before attainable, the orbital constants of the earth and Venus."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"It is a truism that, throughout history, wartime science and technology have been characterised by important advances of a fundamental nature. The inauguration of the new Control &. Automation Division of the IEE has recalled some of the pioneering work in servomechanism theory and design carried out during the Second World War, and in particular the unique contribution of the Ministry of Supply Servo Panel. The main objectives of this article are: first, to discuss briefly the reasons for establishing the Servo Panel, second, to list some of the wartime achievements in the servo field and the men responsible for them, and third, to place on record a very successful co-operative operation (perhaps unique in history) in which several Government departments, the Armed Services, several universities and important sectors of British industry collaborated."
"When the Second World War ended, enthusiastic young engineers and scientists left military work convinced that, with their new techniques and knowledge, they were going to build an industrial Utopia. What went wrong?"
"If automatic plant could be controlled in such a way that the product could be changed at will, it would be economic to make many more machines automatic. This kind of control is perfectly feasible in theory, but until it becomes a practical possibility industry must continue to use scheduled operations. Hence it is in the mass-production industries that we may expect to see the most effective use of automation."
"The author has written a personal meditation about science as he sees it; he does not claim to commit his colleagues of the Science & Education Joint Board to similar views; and so he has written in the first person singular, which he hopes will be tolerated."
"Since those days Mr. Drucquer has become more and more involved in management, although even today he cannot keep himself out of the works. In 1938 he became assistant manager, switchgear sales, at BTH. Promotion to manager followed in 1945, and in 1950 he reached the position of manager, home sales (plant and apparatus). He was made a director in 1956."
"So extensive is the use of storage batteries, that the capacity of those mounted in motor vehicles in Britain alone exceeds the present total output from nuclear power stations. The employment of these batteries is limited, however, by their weight and size and by the time that must be spent in recharging. Development of fuel cells, which do not suffer from these limitations, may lead to the practicability of high-performance electric cars."
"Criticism seems to be good for the artist; it ought to be good for desingers as well. The author believes that criticism is not yet an effective means of purging design errors but can be made so."
"When, in 1947, Pakistan came into being, the late Mohammad Ali Jinnah said: 'Nature has given you everything; you have got unlimited resources. The foundations of your State have been laid and it is now for you to build as quickly and as well as you can.' In the context of this message it was recognised that eletrical power was prerequisite to all development projects, and as such it had to be given top priority."
"Audience reaction to the acoustics of a concert hall are dependent to a large extent on its reverberation time. An ideal hall would have a variable reverberation time to make it suitable for all types of concert. Recent experiments at the Royal Festival Hall, London, show that this is within the capacity of modern techniques."
"The 6th international conference on medical electronics and biological was held in Japan from the 22nd to 27th August under the auspices of the International Federation for Medical Electronics and Biological Engineering. The president at the time of the conference was W. J. Perkins, M.I.E.E., and several other members of the IEE attended the meeting. They found it a most stimulating experience. About half of the 300 papers presented were contributed by Japan, quarter by the USA, and the remainder by 26 other countries."
"A shortened version of the Presidential address to the Institution, given at Savoy Place on the 7th October 1965"
"More than a scientific curiosity, supporting metal by electromagnetic fields has considerable practical interest. The metal can even be in the molten state, and it is quite possible to design furnaces in which the metal is not only melted, but also supported, by electricity."
"Through the experimenter finds himself paying far more for an f.e.t. than for an ordinary bipolar transistor, the former is, in fact, cheaper to produce. This indicates that full is not being made of the advantages offered by f.e.t.s, and that the demand for them is as yet comparatively low."
"Introduction of the BBC2 television service on 625 lines at u.h.f. has raised some novel technical problems. What these problems were, and how they have been overcome, are described here by two of the engineers who were concerned with providing the new service in the london area."
"A further landmark in the development of high-voltage power transmission was the completion by a British company in May 1965 of a 250 kV d.c. undersea interconnection between the North and South Islands of New Zealand."
"Studies of the effects of fatal electric shock have recently challenged certain almost traditional beliefs. It is important that electrical engineeres should be aware of this new knowledge, and how it has led to a revision of the methods of giving first-aid treatment to accident victims."
"This International conference was held at Savoy Place from the 13th to 17th September 1965. It was sponsored jointly by the IEEE, the Institute of Physics and the Physical Society, the IERE and the Electronics Division of the IEE."
"As boiler/turbine units become larger, auxiliary electrical machines of increased size are being used in greater numbers in modern power stations. These drives, which can absorb 120 MW of the total power generated, are in the form of a.c. induction motors, or, for the alternator, a d.c. exciter, or, more recently, an a.c. generator/excitor with rectifiers. This survey gives some idea of the sizes and types of motors and drives in use."
"A conference on design criteria and equipment for transmission at 400 kV and higher voltage was held at Savoy Place from the 27th September to 1st October 1965. It was organised by the committee of the IEE Professional Group on transmission and distribution plant."
"Most people think of sonar, or asdic as it has traditionally been called in Britain, only in its wartime antisubmarine role. There are, however, many uses for sonar in non-military fields such as fisheries research and operation, hydrographic surveying and geophysical and oceanographic research."
"Traditional peasant farming methods have no place in a developing country. Electric power is a prerequisite of any system of modernisation, but the problems of generation are aggravated by the economic difficulties of distribution to the small consumer and the need to instruct the peasant in the uses - and dangers - of electricity."
"After many years of costly and often unrewarding tests, the development of a reliable rectifying valve has led to a lively and growing interest in high-voltage d.c. transmission of electric power. At present, 21/2 GW of d.c. transmission plant is either in service or under construction."
"Process-control computers are already sufficiently reliable for industrial application, and new theory based on the variational principle is expected to give substantial improvement over existing modes of control. However, there still remains the problem of full development in a practical engineering sense."
"The increased complexity of technical problems and the depth of training necessary to undertake them have posed difficult educational challenges for the engineer. Approaches at present adopted in America include industrial education for the young graduate, advanced study for the practising engineer and courses to provide competent technical managers. Close liaison between the universities and industry is, however, essential to the smooth running and success of these projects."
"An annual expenditure of some 10% of the capital cost is necessary to keep electronic equipment working. This maintenance must be carefully organised in terms of records, stocks of spares, instrumentation and personnel deployment in order to minimise the break in production. The author is in charge of electrical and instrument departments at Dounreay Experimental Reactor Establishment."
"Important applications in data storage, pulse-field measurement, wave propagation and the study of magnetic crystals are likely to be found for a recently reported class of materials. These magnetoelectric materials, as they are called, become magnetised in an electric field and electrically polarised in a magnetic field."
"All welding methods, with the exception of the cold-pressure process, require the introduction of heat into the parts being welded, either to raise the metal above its recrystallisation temperature or to melt it. Welding processes are in general distinguished by the way in which stored energy, either chemical, mechanical or electrical, is introduced into the workpiece in the form of heat. In electron-beam welding, as the name of the process implies, heat is generated in the work by the degradation of the kinetic energy of a fast-moving stream of electrons which are caused to impinge on it."
"In the summer of 1964, the author paid a study visit to the Sydsvenska Kraftakiebolaget, which is the biggest private power company in Sweden. Sydkraft, as it is called, is surpassed in the sale of electric energy only by the State Power Board. Its area of operation, the southern part of Sweden, is approximately 14,000 square miles (3% of Sweden's total area), with a population of about 1.5 m. The area is highly developed electrically, and electric power is available to more than 99% of the population."
"Automation applied to electricity supply should give improved load prediction and security assessment."
"In practice, only small machines employ permanent magnets. In analysing the case for permanent magnets versus electromagnets, Prof. Bell indicates that the term 'small' is not necessarily synonymous with 'low power'."
"The mission of the Ranger project was to obtain high-resolution pictures of the surface of the Moon to support the Apollo manned lunar-landing programme and for use by the scientific community. It was carried out by the Ranger t.v. system, which was able to obtain lunar pictures with a definition at least 1,000 times better than those obtained with Earth-based telescopes. Rangers VII, VIII, and IX took over 16,000 high-resolution pictures of the Moon - perhaps the greatest advance in lunar exploration since the invention of the telescope."
"Electric circuits have developed along two major lines: lines of power supply and lines of communication. Mr. King, with a highly personal approach, discourses on the history of circuits and ventures to remark that the logarithmic rate of expansion of our knowledge gives curious pictures of what might happen next."
"Increased interest in accelerometers has been one of the by-products of inertial-guidance studies. This survey of the accelerometer field sketches the basic theory on which the instruments are based, and explains the different categories into which they are divided."
"A year ago, the idea of variable-demand metering was put forward in an article in E & P. Some of the advantages claimed for this metering system are assessed by Dr. Thomson, who concludes that it is fair to all, economical and democratic, and that its beneficial effects would grow with the awareness of consumers."
"Everywhere the demand for electrical power continues to increase, yet no saturation level appears to be in sight. Against this background it is necessary from time to time to reassess all known systems for storing energy in its several forms, for, in the future, storage may be vital to minimise the wastage of energy now accepted as inevitable."
"Radioastronomy and electrical engineering have much common ground. The electrical engineer provides the radioastronomer with his equipment, and, in return, he may acquire knowledge of the usefulness of various types of amplifier or aerial."
"After welding repairs on a tall column, electrical stress relief was carried out in situ, taking only 3½ days: had this column been taken down for stress-relief elsewhere, the outage time would have been about three weeks. It can easily be seen that the saving in such cases is enormous, sometimes amounting to thousands of pounds."
"Maxwell's paper on the electromagnetic field has been regarded as his greatest contribution to electrical science. This article, marking the centenary of its publication, describes how the concept of electromagnetic waves evolved."
"Since the widespread publicity given to Zeta in 1958, there have been many advances in the field of plasma physics, but the days when useful power can be produced from sea-water are still a long way off. The difficulties are immense, but the prize is rich, and so the search continues."
"At the Royal Naval Engineering College, Manadon, Plymouth, young engineers are being trained for managerial responsibility. Underlying the course is the belief that engineering management is an intellectual discipline in its own right."
"The authors have carried out tests on a 5-span section of 132-kV line to determine the jump height of the conductors after the release of simulated ice loads. They found that ice loads in excess of 1 lb/ft were sufficient to reduce the ground clearance of the lowest conductor below a safe level."
"Not only for science-fiction but for many other types of sound and vision broadcasting, an enormous repertoire of effects is now available to the producer through the comparatively new techniques of radiophonics."
"Report on a conference at Savoy Place, 29th September-1st October 1964."
"The authors have made a quantitative assessment of the effect of two types of autoreclosing circuit breaker on power-system stability, using the Atlas digital computer at Manchester University."
"The 45,000-ton P&O-Orient liner Canberra is Britain's largest electrically driven passenger vessel. Electric propulsion is not advocated for all vessels, as its adoption can involve additional weight, complexity and cost. It can be justified where flexibility of machinery layout and operation, rapid manoeuvrability, constant-power characteristics and simple provision of power for large auxiliaries are features which can be utilised in service."
"Large panels uniformly illuminated by internal electroluminescence have intriguing possibilities, particularly since they can readily be animated to give dynamic representation of events. A simple explanation of this rather complex physical phenomenon is followed by some practical pointers."
"In an audiotutorial booth, a student can follow a lecture at his own pace, without distractions, at any hour of the day or night. The author describes American experience of these and other teaching aids, in which there is a steadily growing interest in Britain"
"The capital investment in plant required by the electricity-supply industry for the provision of domestic-heating services is about twice that of the gas industry. It is clear that electricity has compensating advantages, and tariffs should be aimed at exploiting these to the full instead of competing in the direct-heating field."
"Electronically scanned (or beam-positioned) aerial systems have only recently been introduced into the most expensive radar systems. A new technique, discussed below, avoids the disadvantage of 'beam inertia' inherent in the beam-positioning technique."
"There is evidence of an increased awareness of the electrical engineer's role in solving Britain's commercial and economic problems."
"Steady fields in excess of 200 kOe can now be realised with normal conductors such as copper. Mechanical forces dominate the design problem beyond 250 kOe but, in principle, fields towards 500 kOe seem possible. Superconductors may have a natural upper limit near 250 kOe. For fields well in excess of 500 kOe, very-short-pulse techniques remain the only practicable method at present."
"All purposeful objects moving in three dimensions have similar requirements, although not all have to be met in every case. One requirement is electrical supply - essential in all but totally inactive satellites - and the system chosen has to survive particularly hostile environments."
"Most aspects of British industrial life have been under the microscope recently and research, particularly, has been singled out for special attention. Although the electrical industry (power, not electronics) spends nearly 10% of its net output on research, better education and better organisation, argues the author, could give a better return on this investment."
"The subject has captured the popular imagination since the exploration of space became a practical reality. But it is perhaps not generally realised that public-utility telemetering has been with us for a long time, or that the Central Electricity Generating Board operates the largest system in the world. Waterworks, undersea oil drilling, methane distribution and railways are other topics touched upon."
"Planning engineers are seeking to control the domestic demand for electricity in such a way that the creation of peak conditions, calling for massive reinforcement of generating plant, can be avoided."
"If a 90%-efficient machine is in fact two frame sizes larger than an equivalent 85%-efficient one, which is 'best' from the user's point of view? Prof. Laithwaite suggests that the time has come to establish other criteria."
"The method outlined is based on a physical model which is easily visualised throughout design and analysis. This sort of understanding can be lost in more mathematically based treatments."
"A constant-speed drive is not, in its nature, what industry usually requires. On the contrary, the ability either to change speed uniformly over a declared range, or to obtain two or more alternative fixed speeds, is commonly very advantageous. Like the squirrel-cage induction motor, the salient-pole synchronous motor has secured wide use because of its many well-known virtues. This is in spite of its inherent fixed speed, which is only sometimes required and is often actually disadvantageous."
"REME technicians repair a communications set under the appreciative gaze of a local audience. This is but one of the tasks the Corps is called upon to perform all over the world, in support of Britain's modern army. The article describes the vast organisation of technical training and resources behind such detachments."
"A programme of 5000 MW of nuclear generating capacity has been adopted in England and Wales for commissioning in the period 1970-75. This article, based on the 6th Hunter Memorial Lecture, traces the development of nuclear generation and outlines possible trends."
"In 1953, nearly 2000 perished when the North Sea inundated the islands forming the delta of the rivers Rhine, Meuse and Scheldt. The Netherlands Government is now engaged on a £300m plan to seal the whole estuary off from the sea and secure the country against a repetition."
"The discovery of the pion (π meson) in 1947 heralded an era in which a proliferation of subatomic particles have been identified or created. Prof. Frisch's account of these elusive particles provides a welcome guide for the nonspecialist."
"In 1919, α particles of energy 5 MeV from radium were used for bombardinig the atom; over the past 40 years, development of artificial sources has been rapid, and now giant accelerators are capable of producing particles several thousand times more energetic than those first used by Rutherford. This article, based on the 7th Hunter memorial lecture, describes the engineering of one such machine."
"Concepts developed in control engineering have general application in such problems as the stability of economic systems, in the behavioural sciences, in corporate management and in the activity of the individual executive. Generalised concepts, divorced from their mechanical forms, are powerful tools but have appeared in the history of ideas only recently."
"The steady progress in particle accelerators, supervoltage X-rays, electrostatic painting and spraying, nuclear physics, electron microscopy and high-voltage testing equipment calls for a generator of smooth direct current in the 50 kV-10 MV range. The electrostatic generator offers a possible solution to this demand."
"A bandwidth of 3-4 kc/s is obviously not being exploited to the full when used for conveying information about events happening at only a few cycles per second. A means of making more economic use of transmission systems by compressing speech has taken many years to evolve. Its progress and principles are surveyed in this article."
"By employing a forced-cooling system, in one form or other, the limitations and uncertainties imposed on the current rating of an underground e.h.v. cable by the soil thermal resistivity can be largely alleviated. Furthermore, increased cooling capacity of the system allows higher ratings to be achieved."
"The application of technology to the structure of the modern world increasingly depends on Government direction and aid. In the 11th Graham Clark lecture, Mr. Duckworth argued that society should be reoriented to regard innovation as innocent until proved guilty. A technique must then be found for assessing priorities."
"Radar is 30 years old this year, and, to a young man starting on a career, would seem to be an old invention. He could perhaps be excused for concluding that it had little potential left for future development because the whole microwave band useful to radar has now been opened up and the inverse range to the fourth-power detection law is no longer a major embarrassment because of the advent of various types of high-power transmitting tube and low-noise receiver."
"Given adequate design and development facilities, the reluctance machine could prove superior, in some respects, to the induction motor and would certainly be capable of fulfilling a wide variety of increasingly important functions more successfully and more cheaply than any other device."
"The multiple-access concept is causing a revolution in the use of computers. At the present stage of development it is possible for a researcher whose work requires a computer to log in to a central machine through a teleprinter and use it at his own convenience and his own speed, simultaneously with 30 other users in different locations. In fact, with further developments in time sharing, it may one day be possible to have computer-logic power distributed to every office and every home, in much the same way as electric power is distributed today."
"The wide range of electrical equipment appearing on pictorial stamps issued by postal services throughout the world may surprise those who are not philatelists. This selection, which does not claim to be comprehensive, illustrates some of the electrical topics used in stamp designs."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current sociey officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents engineering news of interest in education, industry, and the government."
"Adsorption of oxygen on crystalline nickel surface produces sequence of diffraction patterns shown in upper row. These patterns can be accounted for by the surface atom arrangements. As oxygen atom concentration increases, streaks appear, implying random oxygen positions. At 1/2 oxygen coverage, surface is ordered and streaks have coalesced into sharp spots halfway between original spots. At 2/3 oxygen coverage a triply periodic pattern and atomic arrangement occur."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of G. W. Downs."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department."
"IEEE offers a service so that readers may easily request further information about products advertised in IEEE Spectrum. The US postage paid Reader Service Card enclosed in this issue provides space for you to request data from the various firms who adver"
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Use this coupon to obtain additional data on advertised products."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"In Part I of this series, boiler - turbine unit controls were described in considerable detail. In this installment we shall endeavor to explore the much broader area of the application of computer controls to the entire power system of a single utility company's operations, and also to interconnected grids that may cover a geographical area of several states. Essentially, the prime functions of a computer used for power system automation are similar to those that are used for plant automation, but there is a considerable shift in program and operational emphasis. For example, in systemic operation, the computer is more loosely integrated into the system. There are fewer inputs and outputs, and the real-time requirements are less exacting. All power systems must maintain a balance between the generation of electricity and the constantly varying consumer load, and obtain the maximum generating efficiency at a minimum possible cost. System-wide automation will greatly assist in optimizing this effort."
"Advertisement."
"Invented back in 1816, the Stirling Thermal Engine is now becoming practical for modern applications. Current improvements have grown out of a cooperative development program with N.V. Philips' Gloeilampenfabrieken, of the Netherlands. Performance of the latest models is encouraging (40% thermal efficiency, for instance, compared to about 28% for conventional sparkignition engines). An experimental three-kilowatt generator set is being tested for Army field use, where quiet is important. Inaudibility at 300 feet has already been attained. The Research Laboratories and other GM groups are also studying Stirling systems from five to five thousand horsepower, for applications ranging from under the sea to outer space."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement - Saturn V Openings for Engineers and Scientists."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of John Henry Owen Harries."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Use this coupon to obtain additional data on advertised products."
"IEEE offers a service so that readers may easily request further information about products advertised in IEEE Spectrum. The US postage paid Reader Service Card enclosed in this issue provides space for you to request data from the various firms who adver"
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The Engineering Profession lost one of its most respected personalities with the passing of Bernard Hecht this past January. Mr. Hecht, a consultant and expert in the field of Statistics and Quality Control, is well known in the Los Angeles area where he had been active in heading the IEEE Professional Group on Reliability and Component Parts during his active career. It is well worth noting that Mr. Hecht founded the Los Angeles Chapter of the Professional Group on Reliability. He was also a Fellow of the ASQC and very active in their affairs. Mr. Hecht had excellent experience in building and sett'ing standards for Quality Control and Reliability operations across the Continental United States and Overseas. He Will be well remembered for his intense interest in the new and maturing aspects of Reliability analysis as well as for his practical support of the Reliability Group as a persistent subscriber to the Institutional Listings of the G-R Transactions. Many technical articles written by Mr. Hecht will be used for years to come, but the profession has lost the man who \"could get the job done\" by his very drive. The thing that will live after Mr. Hecht is the stature he has given to the field of Quality and Reliability Engineering."
"In the design and application of electronic circuits there is a need for a practical means for predicting the performance of circuits. In this paper a quasi-empirical method is presented for mathematically relating the performance parameter of interest to the pertinent variables. The technique is demonstrated for a medium-speed switching circuit. This circuit is described, the selection of models and the statistical design of the experiment are explained, descriptive component parameter and performance data are presented, models for rise time and delay time as a function of the component parameters are developed, and an analysis of these models is given. Methods for predicting the characteristics of the performance parameter distribution are presented along with a brief discussion of other uses of the models."
"The paper considers the prediction of reliability for a complex system designed for continuous operation. The state of the system is defined by identifying the subsystems which are functioning, the remainder undergoing repair (no inactive standby). The system is described as up whenever it is in one of an arbitrarily selected set of the system states. It is assumed that maintenance facilities are always adequate, and that the system conforms to a few other very mild restrictions. An exponential failure law is not assumed. Formulas are developed giving the mean durations of system up-times and down-times in terms of the corresponding quantities for the subsystems. The sensitivities of the formulas to errors in the input data are considered."
"Predicting the reliability of a redundant system with repair is considerably simplified when the system can be subdivided into mutually independent subsystems. Results can be obtained without knowing the failure of repair time distributions of the subsystems. In this paper formulae are developed for the ``steady-state'' availability and MTBF of a complex system in terms of the availabilities and MTBF's of its constituent subsystems. The basic concepts required are introduced and discussed in a review of a simplex system. These concepts are then applied to a complex system to obtain the main results of the paper. Finally, two examples are given to illustrate the application of these results."
"Reliability measures how well a system can be expected to perform its intended purpose; it is expressed as a probability function with time and environment as variables. This paper discusses the mechanics of component failure and repair and shows that power system behavior follows a Markov process. The reliability of simple system configurations is evaluated analytically by solving the Markov equations. The reliability of complex systems is more easily evaluated by the use of digital computer simulation. The simulation method is described."
"The concept of an adequate system is introduced as the lowest total cost system that will do what is expected of it whenever called upon. The minimization of total cost requires that the system use the lowest failure rate parts currently available, that it make full use of these parts and that it have an availability approaching unity. It is suggested that adequate systems are likely to be obtained only if procured on a Total Annual Cost Basis."
"The analytical method presented here simplifies problems associated with transmitting transistor and diode characteristics from the semiconductor manufacturer to the electronic designer. This novel approach permits the base and collector characteristics of any individual transistor of a given type to be derived from the nominal characteristics of that type by use of a set of matching factors and terms that modify the nominal characteristics to suit that individual. Availability of complete characteristics allows the designer to accurately simulate the nonlinear behavior of the device in a circuit by means of a convergent iterative process."
"Careful and diligent failure analysis is necessary to obtain maximum benefit from life tests of electronic equipments. The importance of good failure analysis is often underrated in a test program, to the detriment of the program. This paper discusses the role and the significance of correct attitudes, advance indoctrination, thorough planning, skills, facilities, and effective supervision in adequately diagnosing each failure incident, in recording its details, and in preserving the lesson learned."
"The author has been involved with the technical aspects of failure analysis for the past three years. This paper presents a number of typical autopsy analyses which illustrate the techniques which have evolved and examples of electronic part failure causes. The experiences lead to the conclusion that most part failures are the results of defects in design and construction or are the products of human errors in testing. Reliability improvements may be achieved by recognizing these failure causes and adapting appropriate corrective action."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The failure of an element subjected to a steady applied stress is associated with the time-wise deterioration of the element's strength. At the instant of failure, the element can no longer perform to specifications. The strength of the element can be obtained at a specified point in time by abruptly modifying the applied stress to a level which causes the element to fail. The instantaneous strengths determined by this procedure are investigated for the possibility of reducing the test time necessary in obtaining the failure rate associated with exponentially distributed failure times. A simple, physically plausible class of strength deterioration functions is considered and the distributional character of the instantaneous strengths at any time instant is determined. It is found that when the underlying distribution of time to failure is exponential, the instantaneous strengths have distributions which are invariant with time. This result indicates that no clue to the form of strength deterioration can be obtained by testing for the instantaneous strengths. Thus the conclusion is reached, in the case of the exponential failure distribution, that instantaneous destruction tests for strength determination are ineffective for assessing the underlying failure rate."
"The most objective manner in which to measure the ability of a system to perform against a specified mission is to estimate the average probability of successfully completing that mission. This probability of success is defined as the Mission Effectiveness of the system. In general, when specifications are stated for military or space application equipment, the reliability aspect far outweighs all other considerations when in reality it is only one important factor in the ability of the system to complete a satisfactory performance of its assigned mission. In this paper the importance of other factors are illustrated by developing a model which estimates mission effectiveness. This model is developed for a system which undergoes scheduled checkout and up-dating after relatively long standby periods during which it is expected to respond to a random demand. The effects upon mission effectiveness of noninstantaneous and imperfect failure detection and repair are considered, as well as system accuracy. The model for the mission as described is found to be a Markov Chain with one absorbing barrier. The advantage of this type of model is that once the first transition matrix is derived, the factors that enter into mission effectiveness can be readily and automatically extracted. The principal result of the paper is in demonstrating the application of this technique to generate a realistic system model for mission effectiveness. This technique is quite general and as such is applicable to most types of military and space missions."
"This report outlines transistor reliability improvements achieved by semiconductor manufacturers who incorporated improved processing techniques into their lines. These advancements were achieved under the project known as the Production Engineering Measures program for transistor reliability improvement. The procedures reported upon include the status of reliability of the particular devices used in the program (in most cases the entire family of devices); the methods of monitoring relative reliability improvements; and advanced techniques of specific processes such as diffusion, metalization, lead bonding, packaging, and photolithography."
"This paper calculates the minimum-variance unbiased one-order-statistic estimator of the parameter of a one-parameter exponential population. The estimator is given for N = 2(1)20 along with its efficiency with respect to an unbiased M-order-statistic estimator for a sample of N items which is truncated after M items have failed. Furthermore, it is shown that by using the estimator for exponential populations one can obtain a consistent estimator for the scale parameter of Weibull populations with any known shape parameter and with ## location parameter zero. A section on the use of the tabled data and a numerical example are included."
"The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the application of Bayesian procedures to the field of reliability. First, the behavior of a family of Bayesian a posteriori distributions is examined pictorially and described asymptotically by a limit theorem. Then Bayesian point estimation is discussed and the properties of the mean of the a posteriori distribution as a point estimate are given. Following a discussion of the method of constructing Bayesian confidence intervals, Bayesian intervals are compared with Neyman intervals for a special case. The advantage that Bayesian intervals exhibit when system confidence intervals are desired from component tests is pointed out. The application of Bayesian theory in making typical reliability decisions via decision theory is also indicated."
"A mechanical impact test has been used to improve the production reliability of plugin circuit packages for a Bell System electronic switching system. Mechanically unstable components which could cause intermittent electrical failures in system operation are located by monitoring the electrical output of the package during the test."
"This paper is an outgrowth of an investigation to determine how avionic equipment reliability might be improved articularly in view of the experience gained on the ``Minuteman'' high reliability program. The latter program showed that missile electronics reliability could be improved over commercial equipments of similar complexity by several orders of magnitude by emphasis on highly reliable components. No attempt was made to resort to redundancy to obtain reliability with existing components. The basic premise in emphasizing best possible components was that over a period of time, proachhis approach was the only one that was economically feasible. The high cost of unreliability cannot be overstressed, and particularly in view of current cost trends, suggests that this philosophy also makes sense in commercial avionics."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The significant new capabilities and performance improvements of GPSS 111 in comparison to the preceding General Purpose Systems Simulators can be summarized as follows: • Increased speed • Variable number of parameters • Space reallocation • User chains • Attribute Valued functions • START card and PRINT block • Assembly program • Standard Numerical Attributes in any field • QUEUE and DEPART blocks • SPLIT and GATHER blocks • HELP block • List function • Subroutine mode of the TRANSFER block • EXECUTE and CHANGE blocks"
"In this survey we have limited ourselves to a general statement of the problem of dynamic relocation, and used this statement to describe a number of representative dynamic relocation techniques. This approach was used mainly to simplify the exposition. The problem statement is probably no more “general” than the composite of the techniques presented, and will undoubtedly require amending as experience with dynamic relocation is gained. For example, the two-level program structure may prove so useful in handling unwieldy arrays that it may be desirable to generalize it to n levels. The SYSTEM/~~O relocation technique described earlier has an obvious generalization for handling such structures, viz., partition the effective address into n parts, provide n types of tables, etc. All of the techniques described here share one important feature: they enable the user to work with an abstraction of the real computer which is operationally much simpler than the real computer. For example, the ATLAS main memory appears to the user to consist entirely of word-addressable, random-access storage, whereas in actuality it need consist of such storage only in part. Similarly, the main memory of the B5000 may be viewed as a “two-dimensional” memory whose addresses have two independent components) whereas in fact this memory is achieved with a conventional “one-dimensional” memory and an appropriate addressing technique. Such abstractions are coming to be known as virtual machines. The idea behind virtual machines is not new, being the essence of all programming systems which tend to mask the real computer from the programmer. As computer operation becomes more complex, the virtual machine concept will become increasingly important."
"A technique for analyzing two- and three-dimensional linkages by solving vector equations for position, motion, and force was programmed for a digital computer. A model plex that treats a linkage as one or more vector loops is generated. The program selects the applicable equations for position solution. Algorithms are simplified by storing linkage information in the form of a tree-organized plex."
"Between conventional techniques of scheduling and the actual production order sequencing lies a gap which should be bridged to provide a logical system connection between the planning process and the implementation of the shop loading function. Project network techniques, including PERT, generally do not consider the constraints on resources.1,2 It is true that resource utilization can be extracted from a PERT-type schedule. However, there is no guarantee that the amount of resources required for any scheduled interval of time will not exceed the plant capacity, thereby making the schedule invalid. Also, if the demand for resources associated with the PERT schedule fluctuates severely, the resulting schedule may be expensive. These considerations are especially acute when several project networks compete for limited resources. On the other hand, by definition, sequencing techniques provide a feasible loading of the shop.3 However, this loading is usually accomplished at the hazard of ignoring project goals in favor of local (short-term) increases in facility utilization. An exception is discussed in a report by B. Banerjee,4 which is a treatment of a set of project-oriented heuristics for shop sequencing."
"The method described makes it possible to assign weights to important priority factors by the use of control variables. A function that in part measures the deviation from a desired system state is optimized by the choice of values of these control variables. Under the assumption that Equation 5 represents the dynamics of the system, Equation 8 provides the system with an input that minimizes the performance index P of Equation 6. This input, u, can then be used in Equation 1, yielding the desired sequencing function. The control exercized is adaptive in the sense that the representation of the system's dynamics is periodically revised by successive least-squares fits of a new data as required."
"Methods for allocating resources in shops with fabrication activities are generally based on a particular mathematical model of the shop activities. The methods often assume that the model is completely accurate and that the shop activities are invariant. In practice, however, one or both of these assumptions may be invalid."
"The experimental matrix computation program described in this paper embodies dynamic memory allocation of all matrices, and enables the user to specify most matrix operations by using single-address pseudo instructions. Several different matrix types are allowed, and the most common matrix operations (addition, subtraction, right- and left-hand multiplication, transposition, inversion, solution of linear equations and eigenvalue/eigenvector computations) have been implemnented. If desired, additional matrix types and/or matrix operations may be incorporated."
"The algorithm can be programmed without the use of multiplication or division. It was found that 333 core locations were sufficient for an IBM 1401 program (used to control an IBM 1627). The average computation time between successive incrementations was approximately 1.5 milliseconds."
"The major problem in designing a floating-point system is the addition operation. Knowledge of the relative importance of each of the suboperations can assist the designer in materially improving performance. Of special import are the provisions for shifting in pre-addition alignment of the operand radix points and in post-addition normalization of the result. Since these shifts vary over a wide range, provision must be made for the worst cases, without requiring the time of these extremes for all cases."
"The paper provides an approximate reliability analysis of polymorphic systems and indicates, in a rough way, the reliability gains given by the essential features of such systems. A complete analysis of polymorphic systems would involve many considerations ignored here."
"The technique outlined gives a solution to the problem of optimizing the service rate(s) in a queuing system according to the given criteria. It should be noted that this solution is suboptimal in several respects. Whereas the stated objective of the procedure is to make W → Wd, the procedure actually makes E((w − Wd)2)→O. The minimization of E((W − Wd)2) tends to weight deviations on either side of Wd equally. which implies that the cost of an item finishing ahead of schedule is the same as the cost of an item late by an equal time."
"Pending appearance in the literature of a systematic and complete treatment, these notes are intended as a partial check-list for the systems engineer installing a real-time system. Although based on the implementation of an airline reservation system, the notes are generally applicable to large systems of similar complexity."
"The IBM 1401 FORTRAN compiler1 was designed as a set of phases that operate sequentially on the source program. The source program having been placed in core storage, the compiler phases enter core one at a time. Each phase overlays its predecessor, operates on the source program and, in turn, is overlaid by the next phase of the sequence. Thus, in contrast to the customary technique of passing the source program against the compiler in core, the compiler is passed against the source program which resides in core. It is assumed that the source program is more concise than the object program, and that an object program of interest can be accommodated in core."
"The discussion has considered those logical functions of greatest import in the construction of an operations control system. We have described the feed-forward flow of production planning data and the feedback of production control data that characterize the system. Subsequent parts of this paper will describe methods for implementing the various functions of the system."
"The basic problem confronting the planner in a manufacturing enterprise is the circularity in planning. Production planning assumes knowledge of the future capacity of the plant. This capacity is partially dependent on the projected work load in the plant. In turn, the future work load depends on production plans."
"The discussion shows how to obtain various quantities from the next-assembly matrix N. Minimal, although appreciable, use is made of bulk storage. The N matrix is stored in two forms. At some loss of speed, memory space can be approximately halved if only one of the matrices is used"
"By a Dantzig and Wolfe decomposition, followed by an application of a column generating technique, a problem originally calling for simplex computations on an (I + 5KT)(I + 5KT) matrix (and for the investigation of scalar products with columns as numerous as schedules) is reduced to a problem calling for simplex computations on a (5KT + 1)(5KT + I) matrix and for a string of I associated dynamic programming calculations."
"Thus, while dynamic programming, particularly when combined with the method of successive approximations, is a powerful and flexible weapon for attacking operations research type problems and belongs in the arsenal of every systems engineer, the other available techniques of linear programming, simulation, and simple decision rules, should be considered in each case."
"Control of vehicular traffic presents a problem of ever-increasing severity, especially along arteries with large numbers of traffic signals. Many attempts have been made to set the timing of the signals for satisfactory traffic flow. However, most of these designs for fixed-time control require a manual analysis of the traffic situation. Such designs are time-consuming and do not always lead to the best possible solution."
"From the described model, one can compute average time, as well as the means and variances of service and transit times, for a multiplexed low speed data channel subject to high speed data channel interruptions. The arrival rates λ1 and λ2, and the service-time distributions Hb(x), He(x), and H1(x) are the computational inputs. The model has been useful in assessing the channel capabilities of various SYSTEM/36O configurations in the context of real-time applications."
"A model is developed for the simulation of alloy thin films by forming a layer consisting of spheres of two different sizes mixed randomly in any desired proportion. Included in the model is the possibility for vibration to simulate low-temperature annealing, as well as the use of a “substrate” containing periodic grooves to simulate epitaxial growth. Optical (Fraunhofer) diffraction patterns are taken from photographs of the model for comparison with the structural features observed directly. The model serves to show strikingly the role of the size factor in determining film structures. In particular, it shows that for size differences near 25% amorphous structures are obtained over a wide range of compositions. It also shows that such amorphous structures are essentially unchanged by vibration “annealing.” On the periodically grooved substrate, the existence of an “epitaxial” deposition rate is demonstrated. These and other features of the model are compared with experience concerning evaporated thin films and found to be in excellent qualitative agreement."
"The {100}, {110} and {111} surfaces of silicon, germanium and gallium arsenide, cleaned in ultra-high vacuum by heat-treatments alone or by ion-bombardments followed by anneals, were studied with the display-type low-energy electron diffraction technique. Most surface structures reported in the literature by others could be reproduced, namely, Si(111)7, Ge(111)8, GaAs(111)2, and GaAs(100)1. Some, however, could not, namely, Si(111)5 and Ge(111)12. Two unreported structures were found to exist, even simultaneously, on the GaAs{100} surface and six different structures were detected on Si{110} surfaces after annealing treatments at different temperatures. The significance of a “clean” state of semiconductor surfaces, as identified by the observation of low-energy electron diffraction patterns, is discussed."
"A mathematical model is presented for simulating the steady-state catalytic dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene to styrene and other associated side reactions. The various differential equations describing the material and energy balances were integrated using a fourth-order Runge-Kutta method on an IBM 7090. Several runs on the computer were made to study the effect of change in feed rates, feed-to-steam ratio, and inlet temperature and pressure, on styrene yield. It is shown how, with the computer results, a profit equation for a particular plant may be derived for possible use in on-line optimization and control."
"The rise of the junction temperature during continuous operation of an injection laser has been measured as a function of current and is discussed for different cases. The dependence of the emitted light power on current is computed from the thermal data and compared with the experiment. The threshold current and the differential quantum efficiency for continuous operation are discussed."
"A numerical procedure for solving the eigenvalue equation u″ = [V(x) − E]u, where V(x) is complex, is described. The number of eigenvalues, and their approximate location, can be determined by contour integration in the complex trial eigenvalue plane. Some general features of the solutions, and an example, are given."
"Nondestructive reading of orthogonal-field memory elements, in particular metallic tape memory cores in which an interrogating current through the tape material is employed, has been described in the literature,1,2 and many workers have reported on other orthogonal field memory elements. The experimental element described in this paper differs in geometry from previously proposed orthogonal field memory elements and provides all memory function"
"A number of exploratory studies have been made during the past five years on the use of fluid logic elements to replace conventional electronics in certain applications. IBM began to study fluid logic at the Zurich Research Laboratory about 1956. This work was initially directed toward using a spool valve to perform the logic function1 but was rapidly expanded to investigate other elements. Most of the present interest in fluid logic is a result of the invention of the fluid jet amplifier (wall interaction amplifier) in 1959 at the Harry Diamond Laboratory. This amplifier consists of a high-energy stream of fluid passing through a nozzle into a cavity which contains two diverging walls. Control channels are located perpendicular to the nozzle, enabling low-energy control streams to switch the high-energy stream from one wall to the other.2 This element can be made either monostable or bistable and has been constructed to produce several logic functions (and, or, nor, etc.). By combining these into a system, one can produce some rather sophisticated logic. Although the element by itself appears to be simple, considerable expertise is required to connect a number of elements together into a reliable system"
"A comparison between experiment and theory has indicated an inaccuracy in avalanche breakdown calculations for low voltage silicon p-n junctions. The source of this error has been located. It is shown that the published values of effective carrier ionization rate, at avalanche breakdown, do not apply for low values of avalanche breakdown voltage. This error results from an inadequate mathematical approximation used during the empirical determination of effective carrier ionization rates for both silicon and germanium p-n junctions."
"A simple and unified treatment is given of the properties of the magnified or demagnified images reconstructed from Fresnel holograms. The resolution attainable in wavefront reconstruction is discussed with particular attention to the aberrations of reconstructed images. Explicit expressions are given for the five primary wave aberrations, viz., spherical aberration, coma, astigmatism, curvature of field, and distortion."
"Presented here are the results from a mathematical investigation of the impurity atom distribution within a planar p-n junction. Two fundamentally different diffusion processes are considered: In the first, a constant impurity atom concentration is maintained at the semiconductor surface; in the second, a fixed quantity of impurity atoms is involved in the entire diffusion process. The results of this investigation show than a one-dimensional approximation inadequately characterizes the impurity atom distribution within a planar junction, and that in theory, the planar junction is not at a constant distance from its impurity atom source. Instead, the junction is closer to its source at the semiconductor surface than deep within the bulk material. Further, it is shown that when diffusion takes place from a source of constant concentration density, the junction impurity atom gradient is maximum at the semiconductor surface. In contrast, this junction impurity atom gradient is shown to exhibit a minimum at the semiconductor surface when the total number of impurity atoms is time invariant throughout the entire semiconductor material."
"An important unsolved problem in the theory of polynomial interpolation is that of finding a set of nodes which is optimal in the sense that it leads to minimal Lebesgue constants. In this paper results connected to this problem are obtained, and some conjectures are presented based upon numerical evidence garnered from extensive computations."
"The analysis provides the solution for the elasticity problem of a circular flat crack in a transversely isotropic elastic solid under uniform or linear shear stress distribution at the crack surface. This analysis, together with the published works5,6 on circular cracks under normal stress, solves the problem of a circular crack under any uniform stress distribution at large distance from the crack. The result should be of interest in fracture mechanics. It may be of interest to remark that the solution presented here has provided valuable insight to solving the corresponding problem for the elliptical crack."
"In Reference 1, a practical application of the special properties of a class of matrices called chain matrices is made to obtain numerical solutions of partial differential equations of the elliptic type. In this communication, we wish to present an application of these matrices to the study of the problem of obtaining numerical solutions of parabolic partial differential equations. This method is not proposed as a general method for obtaining a numerical solution to parabolic equations, for its limitations are obvious. Its use, however, does allow us to obtain some interesting theoretical results"
"The development of a GaAs-Si light-activated switch, designed to serve as a building block in an integrated electronic gating system (multiplexor), has been reported1–3 It was found that the usefulness of the gating system could be greatly amplified if a simple drive scheme could be designed to operate compatibly with it. Such a drive scheme has been developed, and is briefly described here. It possesses both simplicity and a high degree of compatibility, since its principal components are the same (GaAs light emitting diode and double-emitter silicon transistor) as those which make up the light-activated switch. Incorporated in an integrated package, the drive scheme has the advantages of minimized power requirements, a minimum number of components, and increased reliability (through reduction of the requirement for interconnections)."
"This communication discusses some preliminary work on a new acoustical analysis technique and its application to the detection of noise sources in paper document handling machines. The technique, a time-domain dynamic-analysis method, used in conjunction with the conventional analysis techniques based on frequency and spatial analysis, has permitted the development of design principles for minimizing the output of “paper noise”* from document handling systems. The analyses show that, in general, paper noise can be minimized by maintaining maximum control of all document surfaces throughout the document path. The dynamic analysis system described here is the first part of an effort to develop a method for instantaneous recording of noise levels. When fully developed, the system will permit rapid analysis of many noise problems."
"Communications has historically been acknowledged as the pace-setter in the development of electronics technology. In recent decades automatic data processing has emerged as another vital and energetic source of progress in the same area of technology. Although advances in one field have generally been made independently of those in the other, many workers in both communications and data processing have come to realize, in the course of making further progress, that the two fields are becoming more interdependent. In a steadily increasing number of cases, developments in one field have resulted in, or been reinforced by, developments in the other."
"A theoretical study is made of the time-domain equalization procedures for the correction of delay distortion in high-speed data transmission lines. In the first part of the paper the conditions that insure valid and effective use of a class of conventional time-domain equalizers are reviewed. In the second part of the paper, a new type of nonlinear time-domain equalizer is proposed, in which iterative methods are not required. The theoretical basis is given for the new equalization method."
"Ratios that are sufficient to detect classes of error patterns in cyclic codes are discussed. Systematic procedures for the correction of Bose-Chaudhuri codes are given; it is shown that these are quite fast but practical only for small numbers of random errors. It is seen that there is the capability of simultaneous independent and burst error correction."
"This paper compares pseudo-noise (PN) with conventional modulation techniques for multiple-access satellite communications of voice messages. The reference for all comparisons is the conventional frequency-division multiplex telephone system. The comparison study is concerned with theoretical channel parameters as well as practical considerations which are unique to satellite communications. For PN modulation, curves are presented which show the relationship between the intrinsic signal-to-noise ratio and the number of channels per megacycle for a given test-tone-to-noise ratio. It is concluded that high quality voice transmission can be achieved efficiently with PN-multiplexing. In particular, pulsed pseudo-noise transmission with some form of wide-deviation pulse-time message modulation and matched filter reception uses the down-link intrinsic signal-to-noise ratio and bandwidth as efficiently as the conventional single-sideband up and composite frequency-modulation with feedback down, provided that up-link power control is used. For lower quality communications, conventional modulation is more efficient in rf bandwidth utilization. Where rf bandwidth is not a significant factor, but the down-link intrinsic signal-to-noise ratio is important, then in the case of PN modulation, communications can be made thermal noise limited in the down-link. Here PN is, for all practical purposes, as efficient as orthogonal multiplexing."
"The design of a radio set using pulsed pseudo-noise signals is described. The unit uses pulse position modulation and matched-filter detection. The use of pulse compression techniques permits the radio to achieve good signal detectability; it also permits privacy for each of several sets operating in a common channel. Characteristics of the 280 Mc/sec rf system are given and the call-up logic for achieving telephone-like operation is described. Some aspects of the digital matched filter design are discussed. Analysis of theoretical operation shows only a small performance difference between digital and linear matched filters."
"This paper discusses the performance of a digital matched filter receiver matched to a biphase-modulated signal in a clutter environment consisting of other biphase-modulated signals. Analytic results for a white-Gaussian model and for a non-linear capture model are compared with simulation results obtained from an IBM 7094 computer. The white-Gaussian model is in general agreement with the simulation results for equal power clutter signals; the capture model and the simulator yield similar results when a dominant clutter source is present."
"A system has been designed to automatically perform the functions of intercepting misdirected telephone calls and providing correct dialing information. This paper concentrates on the design of the switching unit of the system. The switch is a space-division, wired-logic controlled device using dry-reed relays as crosspoints. It is organized so that separate networks perform the functions of concentrating incoming lines and selecting operator positions for identification of the number the customer thinks he called. While the presently installed system is not completely automatic, provision is made for incorporation of automatic identification of the “called number” when the necessary telephone central office features become available. Although the system was built for a particular telephone installation, modular construction makes it readily adaptable to installations with a variety of requirements. The switching networks can handle a maximum of 200 incoming intercept trunks, 64 automatic audio response trunks, 22 called-number identifying operators, and 14 special intercept operators."
"To achieve the advantages of a new technique (ISAM) for integrating the functions of time-division switching and frequency-division multiplexing, it is necessary to design filters that are somewhat different from those used in conventional switching and multiplexing systems. This paper analyzes the performance of ISAM filters. Since in the new technique signals are resonantly transferred between band-pass filters, the theory of resonant transfer for this general case is developed. The conditions for obtaining resonant transfer between ideal filters are determined and then the effects of using nonideal filters are investigated. An example is given showing the synthesis of a set of filters designed to meet ISAM requirements."
"One of the accepted definitions of a “burst” in coding theory is the following: “A burst of length b is a vector whose only nonzero components are among b successive components, the first and last of which are nonzero.”"
"The problem of organizing and partitioning large amounts of data into classes such that all data in one class will have similar properties is well known in pattern recognition research. The first step in the process, a cluster finding technique, involves grouping a large amount of data into clusters which must be detected and encoded so that automatic pattern recognition can take place. This paper describes a method for detecting and coding clusters. The principal advantages of this technique are that clusters need not be known a priori and no matrix inversion is required."
"Heat is produced during the operation of an injection laser. The thermal conduction problems associated with the flow of the heat away from the junction region have been solved and the temperature increase of the junction has been calculated for several simple model cases. The results have been applied to the calculation of thermal limitations on the performance of gallium arsenide lasers."
"The electrical and electroluminescent properties of GaAs diodes with P-P0-N structure are discussed with special emphasis on their negative resistance characteristics. A description is given of the fabrication of diodes, consisting of a central, manganese-doped, high-resistivity layer (the P0 region) between low-resistivity P- and N-layers. The theory of Dumke for the origin of the negative resistance characteristics is shown to give a good account of their static characteristics. Extension of the theory to transient characteristics (i.e., response to voltage pulses in excess of the breakdown voltage) predicts faster switching speeds than have been observed experimentally; nevertheless, diodes fabricated by one technique switch within a few nanoseconds at room temperature with overvoltages of only a few volts."
"The production of smooth, flat, and clean surfaces on semiconductors, such as silicon and germanium, for the fabrication of planar devices is generally achieved by a combination of mechanical and chemical polishing procedures. With suitable equipment and fine polishing grit a skilled operator can mechanically polish a silicon single-crystal disk to optical flatness. Such treatment leaves a mechanically-damaged surface layer on the polished sample that is removed by a chemical etching procedure which removes more silicon while retaining the smooth, flat surface."
"Although several methods of rapid light deflection have been proposed by Bergmann and others,1 the problem of two-dimensional deflection is still not completely solved. The purpose of this communication is to examine the feasibility of a method of diffracting the collimated monochromatic light of a laser by means of the diffraction spectrum of crossed objects having variable frequency, periodic amplitude or phase. By such means it is possible to move an intense light spot over a two-dimensional field. A possible application of this principal would be in read-only computer stores."
"Business machine components made from steel strip often require case hardened surfaces for adequate wear resistance and/or strength. Straightening operations, following the case-hardening heat treatment, may then be required to produce finished components which conform to flatness or straightness requirements. Subsequent magnetic particle examinations may reveal that the majority or all of the components in a particular order of parts contain cracks. This communication reports an investigation of case hardened specimens containing cracks under conditions of dynamic loading. The study was conducted in an attempt to better understand the behavior of cracked production parts."
"The present status of ab initio computations for atomic and molecular wave functions is analyzed in this paper, with special emphasis on the work done at the IBM Research Laboratory, San Jose. The Roothaan-Hartree-Fock method has been described in detail for atomic systems. A systematic tabulation of atomic Hartree-Fock functions has been made available in an extended supplement to this paper.† Techniques for computing many-center, two-electron matrix elements have been discussed for Slater or Gaussian basis sets. It is concluded that the two possibilities are comparable in efficiency. We have advanced a few suggestions for the extension of the self-consistent field technique to macromolecules. The validity of the suggestions have not been tested."
"Automatic correction of pulse distortion provides the prospect for materially extending the efficiency of data communications over telephone networks. Systems that will compensate automatically for deficiencies in the phase and amplitude characteristics of a transmission channel are shown to be technically feasible. Two specific systems are demonstrated: The first, a “time-reversal” system, compensates for distortion in the phase characteristic only, and the second, a “time-domain” system, compensates for distortion in amplitude as well as phase. The theoretical basis of this work is presented and verified by experimental results obtained on simulated lines and on common-carrier channels."
"An optical cavity is described in which the modes are determined as stationary states of the diffraction-limited object/image transformation of classical optics; these modes are selected by the insertion of controls into the optical cavity and lead to field distributions which image these controls. When the cavity is driven by an active medium, laser oscillation can occur, and this is discussed in terms of the coupled mode equations used by Wagner and Birnbaum in their theory of quantum oscillation in a multimode cavity. Some properties of these modes in the limits of small and large optical aperture are described and illustrated with experiments using the helium-neon gas laser."
"A transduction, in the sense of this paper, is a n-ary word relation (which may be a function) describable by a finite directed labeled graph. The notion of n-ary transduction is co-extensive with the Kleenean closure of finite n-ary relations. The 1-ary transductions are exactly the sets recognizable by finite automata. However, for n > 1 the relations recognizable by automata constitute a proper subclass of the n-ary transductions. The 2-ary length-preserving transductions constitute the equilibrium (potential) behavior of 1-dimensional, bilateral iterative networks. The immediate consequence relation of various primitive deductive (respectively computational) systems, such as Post normal systems (respectively Turing machines) are examples of transductions. Other riches deductive systems have immediate consequence relations which are not transductions. The closure properties of the class of transductions are studied. The decomposition of transductions into simpler ones is also studied."
"It is well known that sound waves can be amplified in a solid by electrons or holes having a drift velocity, in the propagation direction, greater than the velocity of At least at low temperatures, an electric field strong enough to induce a drift velocity of this magnitude, in a semiconductor, can result in a “hot electron” state. 4,5 The purpose of the present communication is to show that the properties of hot electrons can themselves give rise to a distinct contribution to the amplification, one which does not change sign according as the drift velocity is greater or less than the velocity of sound, both for semiconductors typified by cadmium sulphide2 and those typified by n-germanium."
"Why compute atomic Hartree-Fock functions, an approximation 30 years old, when most of contemporary physics pays relatively minor attention to atomic physics? The simple answer is that there are several unsettled problems and gaps in our knowledge of the electronic structure of the periodic system and that the Hartree-Fock method is presently the most efficient technique available. In the present literature on atomic functions there is no systematic effort comparable to the one presented in these tables, previously reported only briefly in the literature. Indeed, in the past, Hartree-Fock functions have been computed for relatively few cases, and often without sufficient accuracy."
"This paper is concerned with a unified approach to the detection of hazards in both combinational and sequential circuits through the use of ternary algebra. First, hazards in a combinational network resulting from the simultaneous changing of two or more inputs are discussed. A technique is described that will detect hazards resulting from both single- and multiple-input changes. The various types of hazards connected with gate-type sequential circuits are also discussed, and a general technique is described that will detect any type of hazard or race condition that could result in an incorrect terminal state. This technique could be easily implemented in a computer program which would be capable of detecting hazards in circuits containing hundreds of logic blocks."
"Various types of counter models have been treated in the literature over the past twenty years. In all these models the counter mechanism involves a fixed or random dead time following a registered event. In this paper a different type of counter mechanism is introduced in which the occurrence of two or more input events within a relatively short time is required to produce a registered (output) event. This model of an “R-fold coincidence counter” is applied to the development of grains in a photographic emulsion for both low-intensity and high-intensity reciprocity failure."
"The Fraunhofer patterns of blazed gratings are derived on the basis of a scalar theory which includes the non-linear dependence of the obliquity factor and the phase modulation on the spatial frequencies defining the positions of the source and of the observer. The solution based on the usual ‘linear communications’ theory is compared with one based on the more general non-linear theory; it is shown that the former is meaningful only in the neighborhood of the blaze wavelength. The behavior of blazed gratings is examined in the light of non-linear theory in the region away from the blaze wavelength. It is shown that the envelope function describing the amplitude distribution due to a single groove depends on the single parameter defining half the phase difference between the two edges of a single diffracting facet. It is also shown that certain wavelengths are missing from the zero order and that ‘dark’ lines exist into which no light of any order is transmitted. A useful maximum for the aspect ratio is derived. The Littrow and spectrograph configurations are examined in some detail."
"The demagnetizing fields are derived for all points of flat uniaxial thin films under various drive fields. The derivation is accomplished by breaking up the flat film into a number of sheets in superposition and integrating their individual contributions to the demagnetizing fields. The scheme is self-consistent in that the magnetization results as a consequence of the derivation, and need not be assumed. Further, the accuracy does not depend on the position with respect to the edges, but rather on the number of sheets. The general approach to the problem is discussed briefly and the final equation for a rectangular geometry given. The discussion is concerned with one-dimensional examples, demonstrating the somewhat unexpected form of the demagnetizing fields under various hard axis drive conditions. Single bits as well as continuous films of Permalloy driven by uniform fields and multiple strip lines are treated. The effect of registration on the demagnetization is also discussed."
"An analysis is made of the average motion times of mechanical positioners based on trapezoidal velocity vs time curves. The results are plotted in terms of dimensionless motion parameters. It is shown that average motion time may be optimized by balancing acceleration and velocity in a proper way. The selection of optimum transmission ratios between motor and load is discussed and demonstrated in an example."
"Ordinary metals and alloys have not heretofore been shaped by the sheet thermoforming techniques so advantageously used by the plastics industry. Although a polymeric material may undergo a manifold increase in surface area during vacuum or pressure forming, metal or alloy sheet invariably fails by localized deformation and thinning at relatively low strains when subjected to tensile plastic deformation. Recent reports of “superplastic” behavior in metals and alloys1,2 include examples of extraordinary amounts of uniform tensile elongation. This communication reports the initial results of efforts to utilize a superplastic alloy in a laboratory vacuum-forming operation."
"A new method to achieve frequency-division multiplexing has been determined. The basis of this method is a new heterodyning scheme, which operates in conjunction with a generalized concept of resonant transfer. Besides achieving frequency-division multiplexing, these concepts, in combination with time-division switching, are the basis for a system that seems to be more economical than conventional combinations of these capabilities. Such a combination is required to effect time-division switching into and out of frequency-divided trunk lines. The basic reason that this integrated system offers the potential of such economy is that the time-division switches are made to serve two purposes. In addition to performing their normal switching function, they also serve a purpose in the frequency multiplexing and demultiplexing operations. Laboratory analysis and development have thus far validated the feasibility of these concepts."
"A thorough knowledge and a very close check of the parameters affecting the characteristics of the deposits enable one to obtain zero Ni-Fe deposits having zero magnetostriction. Addition of Cu to Ni-Fe deposits makes it possible to double the tolerances imposed upon these parameters and to improve the magnetic properties of these deposits, especially in very-high-frequency applications."
"In a previous letter1 it was shown that in double Permalloy films, consisting of two Permalloy layers separated by a nonmagnetic layer, wall structures occur which differ from those observed in single films. In particular, in a double film (400 Å Ni-Fe, 200 Å SiO, 400 Å Ni-Fe) NCel walls and perturbation walls were observed instead of the cross-tie walls normally occurring in Ni-Fe layers of 400 Å."
"The synthesis of switching circuits to produce outputs with prescribed probabilities is fundamental to the simulation of binary information systems. It is also of importance in the simulation of distributed physical systems and decision systems. Basic definitions and some theorems which show how to realize outputs with prescribed probabilities are given. All outputs are derived by logic operations on a \"white\" binary source. The theory provides a method for synthesis of the stochastic portions of those binary information systems which correspond to Markov processes."
"\"HOLIAC\" is the name of a family of cardboard models of information-logic machines implemented with \"peekaboo\" logic. \"Peekaboo\" logic is a representation of switching logic by a display of colored spots in punched windows in cardboard slips. The slips are pushed up or down in various configurations to represent an input statement, and the user scans the resulting display of spots to gain information with which to carry to termination the particular algorithm in use, and to read the final output statement. Holiacs can be used to demonstrate machine applications of conventional-and unconventional number systems, coding and decoding, shift register manipulations, logical operations, and residue number system computations, among other things."
"This paper discusses the specifications, programming implementation, and use of a design automation system that can be used in the development of any computer having read-only storage (ROS) controls. This system, called the Controls Automation System (CAS), designed concurrently with the IBM System/360 was used in the development of Models 40, 50, 65 and 67. The current version of CAS is used by IBM to aid in the design of all systems with ROS controls. The system has been found particularly attractive for the simulation of microprogram-controlled machines although its use is not restricted to them. The newly developed elements of this system are: 1) a programming language for describing the data flow of a machine; 2) a program for translating a variety\" of microprogramming languages into a common one; and 3) a set of computer programs enabling the machines operation to be simulated on an IBM 7090/1401 computer. In addition, CAS has facilities for preparing microprogram design records in a form that is easy to use and understand, and it provides for rapid updating of design records."
"This paper describes a method for applying automatic fault locating techniques to a computer system. Although the techniques described here are generally applicable, they have been specifically applied to IBM System/360 Model 50. Hardcore considerations are stressed and levels of hardcore are defined. Implementation objectives include both minimization of hardcore and minimization of additional circuitry. The design philosophy is to alter existing hardware where possible, keeping hardcore restrictions in mind. Hardware is added only where function does not exist or where hardcore restrictions are violated. A bootstrap approach is used whereby subsystems are tested before being used for checkout of other subsystems. A special program load is used to bypass CPU and channel circuitry to enter tests into storage. With tests in storage, a mode of operation is defined to permit use of main storage as both a data and control storage. In this mode, tests are performed on the read only storage controls. The read only storage, once checked, is used to control test execution on the remainder of the CPU. The entire CPU is then used as a test vehicle for channel checkout purposes. Finally, the same techniques and circuitry are shown to be applicable to other maintenance functions, including logging of errors and checking of certain storage subsystems."
"The observer/state-calculable stochastic machine is such that the present state, input, and output determine the next state. It is shown that since, for such machines, an initial state leads to degenerate terminal distributions, and reduction by merging equivalent states leads to unique reduced forms, several interrelated difficulties in stochastic machine theory are suppressed when attention is restricted to these structures. In particular, their input-output relations possess finitely many generalized states in an appropriate sense, and system realizations can be obtained from initial segments of such i-o relations. However, the need for considering input-output events in the stochastic case (rather than input-events only) is indicated even for observer/state-calculable structures."
"A system for incorporating self-repair capabilities into a digital computer is presented. This self-repairing system is based upon the replacement of failed circuitry via a switching mechanism activated as a result of a failure detection, classification, and diagnostic procedure. The self-repairing computer constructed of state-of-the-art circuitry has a variable organization as determined by the content of the state register which controls a switching mechanism. To permit repair of the multiplicity of failures which totally disable the computer, a master machine has been associated with the computer to aid in all phases of the self-repair process. This added unit or the computer itself may control the content of the state register. For a sample design, it was determined that the self-repair mechanism including the master machine increased the size of the central processing unit by only approximately 30 percent. The mean life between catastrophic failures of the sample self-repairing computer is found to be up to four times that of a standard design computer of equivalent capability. Since the self-repairing computer requires the simultaneous operation of a master machine and the computer itself, it was necessary to develop a simulation program for use in an iterative design of the self-repairing computer mechanism. This simulation tool demonstrated the self-repair features, permitted evaluation of the self-repair process, and yielded knowledge about the operational characteristics of self-repairing digital computers."
"If we regard reversibility (in the intuitive sense) as the ability to return to a previous state, monadic algebras possess varying types and degrees of reversibility. In this paper, we define several properties of monadic algebras, each describing a type of reversibility, and study their relative strength and whether they are preserved under generalized homomorphisms. We show that, in the case of automata (finite monadic algebras) five of these properties are equivalent. We define the reverse, Rev(A), of an algebra A and study its relationship to A."
"We informally define a modular (cellular, iterative) computer to be a device consisting of a large (or, in theory, infinite) number of identical circuit modules connected together in some uniform manner, that is, in such a fashion that every module is connected into the device in the same manner as every other. In this paper we propose a mathematically precise definition of, \"connected together in a uniform manner\". In brief, we show that the underlying linear graph whose vertices correspond to the modules and whose edges correspond to the cables connecting the modules, is a group-graphs that is, the vertices correspond to the elements of a group G and there is given a finite subset G0 of G such that {g, g1} is an edge of the graph If, and only if, there exists g0 ε G0 such that g1 = gg0. We further investigate the effects of restricting G to be an Abelian group and indicate why we feel such a restriction is unwarranted at least in developing the theory of modular computers."
"This paper is concerned with the algebraic structure of classes of automata, rather than single automata, with respect to several relations on these classes: certain equivalence relations like isomorphism and having identical semigroups, and certain partial order relations like being a homomorphic image or a subautomaton of another automaton. Several classes of automata are found to be lattices under certain partial orders."
"How much information about the internal structure of machines can be derived from the abstract structure of the algebra of the composition of machine homomorphisms? A complete posi, tive answer to this problem is derived by means of categorical algebra methods which are developed in this paper and are applied to transition systems with an arbitrary fixed input monoid."
"A number of results about deterministic languages (languages accepted by pushdown automata with no choice of moves) are established. In particular, (1) each deterministic language is unambiguous. (2) the complement of each deterministic language is a deterministic language. (3) numerous operations which preserve deterministic languages (for example, intersection with a regular set) are obtained. (4) several problems are shown to be recursively unsolvable."
"Let mn be the class of languages defined by n-head finite automata. The Boolean and Kleene closure properties of mn are investigated, and a relationship between mn and the class sets of n-tuples of tapes defined by n-tape finite automata is established. The relationships among the multi-head languages and the context-free and context-sensitive languages are investigated, and the adage, \"Two heads are better than one,\" is generalized. Several decision properties of the multi-head languages are derived."
"This paper investigates the computational complexity of binary sequences as measured by the rapidity of their generation by multitape Turing machines. A \"translational\" method which escapes some of the limitations of earlier approaches leads to a refinement of the established hierarchy. The previous complexity classes are shown to possess certain translational properties. An related hierarchy of complexity classes of monotonic functions is examined"
"This paper investigates the computational complexity of binary sequences as measured by the rapidity of their generation by multitape Turing machines. A \"translational\" method which escapes some of the limitations of earlier approaches leads to a refinement of the established hierarchy. The previous complexity classes are shown to possess certain translational properties. An related hierarchy of complexity classes of monotonic functions is examined"
"This paper is concerned with the computations performed by one-tape, off-line Turing machines. It introduces the idea of a \"crossing sequence\", and shows how such sequences can be used to analyze the behavior of off-line machines. It describes a class of recognition problems for which good estimates of computation time can be obtained by arguments based on the properties of crossing sequences. It shows that the square-law bounding relationship between the computation times of one- and two-tape machines can actually be met. Finally, it considers the amount by which the computation time of a one-tape, off-line machine must be increased in order to increase the computing abilities of such a machine."
"This paper investigates the computational complexity of binary sequences as measured by the rapidity of their generation by multitape Turing machines. A \"translational\" method which escapes some of the limitations of earlier approaches leads to a refinement of the established hierarchy. The previous complexity classes are shown to possess certain translational properties. An related hierarchy of complexity classes of monotonic functions is examined"
"In this paper we concern Ourselves with the problem of obtaining high sequence rate sequential machines, machines which are constructed from realistic devices to operate at an input sequence rate which is independent of the machine complexity. To accomplish this result we have only to show a Construction to realize acceptably synchronous devices from badly timed, restricted fan-in and fan-out devices. Once a complete set of synchronous devices is obtained, the results of Arden and Arthurs1,2 apply and we know that any finite state machine has a realization using these devices which accepts input sequence members at a rate which is characteristic of the set of devices, not of the machine. The technique we propose for achieving this result is to produce a lattice of interconnected clock pulse sources called Clock Pulse Propagators. These devices generate clock pulses which are acceptably synchronized with respect to the outputs of neighboring CPP's but are not required to be in synchronization with some machine-wide standard as in current practice. Once it is established that such a network is possible, techniques already known can be applied in the utilization of the clock-pulses to synchronize logic and signals. In this paper, we first present and analyze the use of the assumed clock pulses to synchronize the logic. Lower bounds are developed for the clock-pulse period which depend on the logic device parameters, signal propagation delay and delay variation, and on the size of the region that each CPP serves. As a consequence of this analysis, it is found that in some circumstances, the two phase clock has the potential for higher rate operation than the single phase and is less restrictive in the design constraints imposed for stable operation. The other major portion of the paper is devoted to the presentation of the nature of the CPP, a device based strongly on McNaughton's RBF element3, and the proof that a network of these devices does produce acceptably synchronous clock pulses."
"Computers and other data processing equipments usually contain a basic pulse source (or clock) which keeps the various portions of the equipment in synchronization. When the size of the equipment increases significantly, however, or the clock frequency increases, the clock pulse can no longer be assumed to be at all portions of the hardware simultaneously and propagation delays for the clock pulse itself become important. An important problem is thus how to construct a logic net of nontrivial depth using real components (there are no zero delays and all delays can vary with time even if only slightly) into which a second (or-third, etc.), set of waveforms can be introduced before the first set of waveforms has propagated through to the end of the net. It has been shown by R. McNaughton that it is possible to construct such a net of unlimited depth without danger of one set of waveforms being destroyed by another set catching up with it, if the net contains signal feedback in which each logical element tells the preceding element or elements when it is ready to receive another waveform. The present paper proves that such a net cannot be achieved without such feedback. It is easy to show that the net of logic elements where each element merely delays the signal by a fixed amount (with some uncertainty in duration of the delay) can get into trouble, as one signal can catch up to another. However, if the element can contain memory elements (flipflops) to remember the relative timings of previous signals or if the element can buffer some number of successive input signals and be affected in its operation by their relative timing before passing on the first signal, or if the element can pass on control data to following (not preceding) elements, then the problem of showing a failure is more complicated. The present paper first defines rigorously the possible bounds on a physically-realizable element without feedback from following elements, and then shows that an arbitrarily, large chain. of such elements cannot be constructed to pass signals without a possible error."
"This paper presents an algorithm for finding, for any given Boolean function, a least cost three-level AND-NOT network having uncomplemented inputs where the cost criterion is the number of gates. The approach taken is similar to the Quine-MeCluskey algorithm for two level AND/OR network synthesis."
"The transformation which carries an arbitrary switching function represented by its disjunctive (or conjunctive) canonical form to its EXCLUSIVE-OR (Δ) (or the LOGICAL EQUIVALENCE (∇)) requiresmanipulation of vectors and square matrices of dimension 2n where n is the number of input variables. In this paper we develop a simple iterative procedure which gives the minimal Δ (or ∇) canonical switching circuit configuration using only uncomplemented (or complemented inputs. Our next algorithm assigns best polarities (true or complemented) to every input variable such that on application of the first algorithm we get a configuration with a minimum number of Δ(or ∇) circuits. The latter algorithm appears to be a significant synthesis procedure. These techniques provide valuable tools for day to day synthesis of these circuits because of their inherent simplicity and iterarive nature, in contrast to the methods already proposed. These synthesis procedures are extended to the cases when the truth table contains some \"Don't Care\" states and multiple outputs. Consideration is also given to decomposition and factorization. Also simple transformational rules are given that take the switching functions from Δ to ∇ form and from these to the disjunctive (or conjunctive) canonical forms."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"This paper presents an algorithm for finding, for any given Boolean function, a least cost three-level AND-NOT network having uncomplemented inputs where the cost criterion is the number of gates. The approach taken is similar to the Quine-MeCluskey algorithm for two level AND/OR network synthesis."
"In this paper we examine the problem of feedback in asynchronous sequential circuits. A procedure is presented whereby any normal fundamental mode flow table can be realized as a fundamental mode circuit with feedback index ⌈log2maxi(Si)⌉ where Si is the number of stable states in column i of the flow table and it is shown that this result is optimal. The realization requires no inverters (assuming double-rail inputs), and is therefore a minimal transistor realization if diode logic is used."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"This paper considers the problem of determining whether a sequential machine, given by its flow table, can be realized in the form of binary shift registers. In general we are interested in a realization using the smallest number of shift registers possible. One-to-one assignments and many-to-one assignments are considered. Initially we use partitions for one-to-one assignments, then extend the methods to use set systems for many-to-one assignments. Binary partitions are introduced, and shift. registers are characterized in terms of binary partitions. An algorithm is given for the determination of the required partitions for a shift register assignment. Binary set systems are introduced and shift registers are characterized in terms of binary set systems. It is proven that there exists a sequential machine that cannot be realized by a single binary shift register of finite length. Methods for determining the set systems necessary for a single shift register assignment are given."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of realizing a finite automaton A by a sequential circuit with a single feedback loop carrying a binary signal. To find such a realization, one must find a binary total-state partition, which can be used for feedback, for the flow table T of A or for some expanded Version of T. A method is presented for testing whether a given flow table possesses a feedback partition. If one exists, the method can generate all such partitions, and the corresponding single-loop realizations are easily found. Some special techniques of finding single-loop realizations are also de scribed."
"This paper examines the problem of finding cascade decompositions for two or. more reduced sequential machines which have the same input, such that a common submachine may be factored out and serve as a predecessor machine feeding two or more successor machines which generate the outputs of the specified given machines. Necessary and sufficient conditions under which it is possible to obtain decompositions which contain such a common submachine are developed. If the given machines do not satisfy these conditions, and a common submachine cannot be found, it is shown how one or both of the machines can be replaced by equivalent machines in such a way that some common submachine can be found. The basic tool in the determination of the common submachine is the implication table which is constructed from the implication graph. The objective of the cascade decomposition is to obtain, where possible, an economical realization in terms of internal memory elements without sacrificing economy in the complexity of the output logic circuitry."
"This paper discusses the synthesis of sequential machines with a class of specialized sequential building blocks. This class may be characterized as those sequential machines which have only a single memory element which is a function of external variables. General results are presented for the whole class and synthesis techniques are given for a specific type of module."
"In view of the main objective of designing more efficient electronic computers, logical designers, in recent years, have been much interested in realization of switching functions by networks of threshold gates instead of the classical \"AND\" and \"OR\" gates. Naturally, it is desirable to obtain a most economic network which consists of the least number of threshold gates. This gives rise to the problem of finding for a given switching function f a minimal decomposition of f with linearly separable component switching functions. Because of reliability considerations, the number of inputs to a threshold device cannot be too large, Thus, it is necessary to limit the number of variables of the component functions in the decompositions of f. This leads to the constrained minimization problem stated as follows: Let t denote a given small positive integer not less than 2. For an arbitrarily given switching function f, find a decomposition of f which consists of linearly separable component switching functions of not more than t variables. In this paper, an effective and mathematically rigorous finite process is presented for solving this problem. By the aid of a reduction theorem and the consideration of the total degree of repetition of a decomposition, the problem is solved by the iterated search for simple decompositions with respect to disjunctive or nondisjunctive partitions of the variables. Details and illustrative examples will appear in book form."
"One can construct any finite-state machine as a cascade interconnection of machines whose inputs either permute the states or reset them all to one state. Each permutation group needed in the construction is a homomorphic image of a group generated by the action of a set of input sequences on a state subset of the original machine. Proofs of these facts will be given and their application to the Rhodes-Krohn theory described."
"The realization of a variety of counters with only one threshold gate per state variable and a minimum number of state variables is treated. Closed-form expressions are derived for the weights and thresholds for arbitrarily large scales. The resulting state assignments can be determined by simple algorithms, without recourse to analysis."
"In view of the main objective of designing more efficient electronic computers, logical designers, in recent years, have been much interested in realization of switching functions by networks of threshold gates instead of the classical \"AND\" and \"OR\" gates. Naturally, it is desirable to obtain a most economic network which consists of the least number of threshold gates. This gives rise to the problem of finding for a given switching function f a minimal decomposition of f with linearly separable component switching functions. Because of reliability considerations, the number of inputs to a threshold device cannot be too large, Thus, it is necessary to limit the number of variables of the component functions in the decompositions of f. This leads to the constrained minimization problem stated as follows: Let t denote a given small positive integer not less than 2. For an arbitrarily given switching function f, find a decomposition of f which consists of linearly separable component switching functions of not more than t variables. In this paper, an effective and mathematically rigorous finite process is presented for solving this problem. By the aid of a reduction theorem and the consideration of the total degree of repetition of a decomposition, the problem is solved by the iterated search for simple decompositions with respect to disjunctive or nondisjunctive partitions of the variables. Details and illustrative examples will appear in book form."
"A method of synthesizing networks of threshold gates is described. The method makes use of the solutions to the dual of a set of inequalities to guide the design. The procedure is suitable for a variety of network topologies, for multiple output networks, and for partially specified functions. The procedures described are suited to automatic computation. A program for performing logic design using these procedures has been written and tested."
"This paper is concerned with the realization of linearly separable switching functions where the realization has maximum stability to coefficient and logical signal fluctuations. A realization algorithm is presented for sequentially selecting the coefficients where each coefficient is as small as possible given the values of the previously selected coefficients and the requirement that the realization have unit gap length. As yet it is undetermined whether the algorithm always yields a realization for which the ratio of gap length to sum of coefficients is a maximum."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"For the first time the two-photon effect achieved with light from a laser has been used to cause a specific chemical reaction. At the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Y.H. Pao and P.M. Rentzepis irradiated a sample of distilled styrene monomer with light from a pulsed ruby laser and found that they had created polystyrene. The simultaneous In the experiments, freshly distilled styrene monomer was subjected to a succession of some 20 laser pulses. The sample was kept at liquid nitrogen temperature to stabilize free radicals released during the two-photon process. Following the irradiation, the sample was warmed to room temperature and the polymer was precipitated. An infrared spectrum analysis showed that Yo-Han Pao (left) and Peter Rentzepis of Bell Labs are shown irradiating a sample of distilled monomer styrene (in the flask) with light from a pulsed ruby laser (not shown). Simultaneous absorption of two photons by the monomer causes polymerization. absorption of two photons by the monomer molecule was found to have caused this polymerization. The success of these experiments may open a potentially vast area of molecular phenomena to exploration with the laser's highly intense and monochromatic beam of light. Pao and Rentzepis believe they have demonstrated a general phenomenon and believe that many other multiphoton photochemical reactions may be induced and studied. the precipitate was identical to that of the known polymer. Monochromatic light from a ruby laser occurs at a wavelength of 6940 A. Photons at this wavelength have an energy equivalent of 1.8 eV. Styrene monomer, however, cannot absorb such light, and-even if it could-this energy would not be sufficient to induce a chemical reaction. However, in the interaction of the intense laser beam with the molecular system, there is a process by which two photons are absorbed almost simultaneously to excite the monomer by 3.6 eV. This, in turn, causes the formation of free radicals and induces polymerization."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Acoustical measurements of several large halls, together with laboratory experiments, are opening a fresh approach to the design of large concert halls. The energy relationship between early and late sound is found to be unexpectedly critical."
"Advertisement."
"A more sophisticated and satisfying approach to uninterruptible standby a-c power is with an Exide static inverter system."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of Claire William Ricker, Edward Alexander Roberts, Arthur L. Cook, and Melville J. Wohlgemuth."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of Edward Victor Appleton, Ewell K. Jett, James Kilton Clapp, Johannes Sigfrid Edstrom, and Ernest Ellsworth Moore. "
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department."
"Advertisement."
"IEEE offers a service so that readers may easily request further information about products advertised in IEEE Spectrum. The US postage paid Reader Service Card enclosed in this issue provides space for you to request data from the various firms who adver"
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Worst-case circuit design is not a cookbook approach that allows good circuit designs to be arrived at without thinking. Neither is it an approach that requires an inordinate degree of sophistication and engineering skill. The success of the worst-case design approach depends entirely on a thorough knowledge and understanding of all circuit requirements and design factors that are involved."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement: Hughes."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1965."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a map of the conference venue."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"IEEE offers a service so that readers may easily request further information about products advertised in IEEE Spectrum. The US postage paid Reader Service Card enclosed in this issue provides space for you to request data from the various firms who adver"
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Over the past decade, automatic power plant monitoring and supervisory instrumentation, area load - frequency, and transmission control of interconnected power systems have developed into sophisticated online analog - digital computer and telemetering centers that may be the keyfactors in the establishment of a future firm national grid. Computer-controlled power plants, despite the sizable costs of the initial investment in analog and digital equipment, have achieved noteworthy economics in both power generation and plant maintenance. And the advantages certainly outweigh the disadvantages. Reports from private and public power groups throughout the United States and abroad indicate an accelerating trend toward at least supervisory control and monitoring of boiler-turbine-generator units within individual steam-electric generating plants. Many of the large utility combines, with extensive and complex interconnections, have already expanded the concept to elaborate load dispatch area control systems that include analog - digital computers in online operation with microwave and telephone channel communications networks."
"Advertisement."
"What combination of directional control characteristics is best used by the driver? At least 27 interacting design parameters ... inertias, masses, mass distributions, wheelbase, tire design, steering ratio, roll centers ... affect the directional control of a car. Fortunately, our researchers have developed equations to approximate these in a simplified mathematical model and have successfully described responses of many distinctly different vehicle configurations by this technique. Using this information, GM Research engineers and psychologists are studying driver responses with the aid of a car having variable stability and control."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"IEEE offers a service so that readers may easily request further information about products advertised in IEEE Spectrum. The US postage paid Reader Service Card enclosed in this issue provides space for you to request data from the various firms who adver"
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1965."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"IEEE offers a service so that readers may easily request further information about products advertised in IEEE Spectrum. The US postage paid Reader Service Card enclosed in this issue provides space for you to request data from the various firms who adver"
"The rapidly expanding field of data transmission is predicated on the concept that information, to be usejul, must have mobility. Some of the many problems faced by today's data transmission engineers are examined."
"Electronics will continue to make more and more automation possible in the future. But man will remain far superior to any electronic device in his ability to daydream as part of his thinking process, to concentrate at will on one odor among many, on one object in a panorama, or on one sound in a noisy room. There will certainly be instruments and devices that are larger, faster, and more accurate than the ones we have today. Their use will steadily spread into new and more complicated technical phenomena and into economic and social areas. As computers, for example, grow in size, they can be used for keeping all kinds of records: bank accounts, income tax data, medical histories, even criminal records and fingerprint files, perhaps on a national scale. Information will be digitized by existing, or yet to be developed, instruments, and stored for ready availability. Instruments and devices will undoubtedly become smaller, cheaper, and more reliable, thus permitting new applications not only to technical problems, but, increasingly, to social problems as well. We have already seen the use of the more expensive instruments for communications and for control of air traffic, and such developments as the use of radar to detect petty offenses SUGh as speeding automobiles. However, if these devices were sufficiently compact and cheap, they could also be made available for such purposes as crime prevention, automobile control, and accident prevention; and, of course, their medical use would be greatly expanded. The future also will see the development of better thinking machines."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of Julius C. Strasbourger and Karl Spangenberg."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"IEEE offers you this service ... so that you may easily request further information about products advertised in Spectrum. The Reader Service Page appearing on the last two pages of this issue provides space for you to request data from eight firms."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE SEARCH for fundamental knowledge of how organizations innovate continues. Many factors contributing to and detracting from individual and organizational “creativity” and innovation have been explored in the literature. For example, these articles in the Transactions have explored various facets of the problem: Kaplan (March 1960); Marples (June 1961); Taylor, Smith and Ghiselin (December 1961); Mansfield, Jones, and Arnold (June 1962); Goldberg (March 1963); Mullins and Cherian (June 1963); Gordon (December 1963); Pelz (March 1964); Rubenstein (September 1964); and Allen and Marquis (December 1964)."
"The study describes two important organizational factors which influence innovative behavior. These are : 1) The extent of the organization's knowledge of the problem at the time that a new technological improvement is needed. 2) The extent of the organization's knowledge of the science or technology necessary to provide the needed innovation. Detailed data on new developments in digital computing equipment are presented to support the importance of these two types of knowledge mentioned."
"Numerical planning techniques are rapidly gaining in popularity, urged on by the tremendously increasing complexity of modern decision-making at high government and industrial levels. One of the most promising methodologies, originally intended as an advanced development planning aid, has been developed by Honeywell, Inc. Project PATTERN (Planning Assistance Through Technical Evaluation of Relevance Numbers), staffed from several company divisions by experts representing the corporate technical knowledge, produced a two-volume “scenario” which provides the descriptive material on which value judgments are made and a comprehensive “relevance tree” which records the collective value judgments of the company's representatives on thousands of individual decisions and shows how present-day technology deficiencies are ultimately related to our national objectives of military and scientific preeminence. The “relevance tree,” along with the assigned numerical values on the relevance of each of its elements, has been programmed on computers at several of the company's plants throughout the country to aid in local advanced development program decision-making within the charter of each plant. Provision is made for continually revising the judgments and updating the technology tree."
"The author discusses two aspects of control which affect the most obvious outputs of a research and development laboratory. 1) Technical Control: A model of the technical control function is discussed. Also presented are discussions of the corporate-laboratory interface and a procedure for estimating the potential program cost for management. Internal control of the laboratory is also mentioned, including a PERT-type chart used for scheduling a small “best-efforts” laboratory program. Another aspect is the laboratory-product department interface, with a planning chart for iterative R & D programs. 2) Financial Control: (Defined as maintaining a balance between supporting input funds and billed costs within predetermined limits.) Two categories are discussed : 1) measurements, including financial control loop, with discussions of budgets, salaries, nonsalary costs, overhead, and backlog, and 2) management alternatives, which are control actions on proposal activity, applied salaries, total salaries, and expenses. The two control loops — technical and financial — are cross-coupled and interact strongly. The objective of both controls is to optimize laboratory performance in relation to cost."
"The recruiting of technical people is a vital matter in today's technologically advancing world. The author indicates that present methods of recruiting are ineffective, costly, and time-consuming. Two basic changes in the field of technical recruiting are suggested: 1) the use of technical personnel in the recruiting process and 2) an overall reduction in the amount of time spent on the cycle. Their combined effect would be to provide the technical applicant with a feeling of the company's personal and prompt interest. The recruiting cycle in general should include three features : 1) a complete analysis of the manpower and technical requirements of the job opening, 2) the establishment of a precise recruiting plan, and 3) an analysis of the results with a view toward the modification and improvement of the recruiting plan. All three plans should be carried on continually."
"Schedule, Cost & Profit Control with PERT by R. W. Miller. (Director of Management Sciences, Raytheon. Company) New York: McGraw-Hill, 1964"
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"ALTHOUGH RESEARCH, development, and engineering contain many uncertainties, among the most risky kinds of business decisions are those that lie in the marketing areas. The decisions related to introducing a new product, pricing it, and selecting a production volume involve the kind of risks that could spell disaster for a company."
"This report discusses some of the aspects, considerations, and procedures in the organization and implementation of product planning and price determination of proprietary products in a competitive homogeneous oligopoly. These problems are considered from the viewpoint of a corporate executive. It is presumed that a marketing organization is functioning smoothly, and channels of distribution have been established. The major steps and functions performed in a typical product-development cycle are outlined in a flow chart. The product-planning and price-determination process for adaptive, emulative, and innovative proprietary products is discussed from a practical, though not too commonly implemented viewpoint. Specific emphasis is given to quantitative decision theory and variable costs in an effort to minimize the subjective or emotional bias in business decisions. Management decision making in this area requires a knowledge of economic theory, management sciences, legal requirements, and experience in “real world” business practices. The greatest variable in each of these problems is the human, since the emotional predisposition of people will cause them to attach special interpretations to each decision, situation, object, or even to other people. Therefore considered judgment should be used to understand the entire situation and the reasons causing the effects, in order to provide an opportunity for interpretation and control."
"As a part of a larger study, a method was developed for arriving at a rank order of competence for a selected group of government laboratories. This paper describes the methodology for achieving the ranking and examines the relationship between rank and the amount of time expended supervising contractors."
"A report on a heuristic program which performs work formerly done by chemists is presented here. The first part of the paper describes briefly the task and the program. Because the technique of heuristic programming is now well known, however, the emphasis of this paper is on the organizational problem of successfully introducing such an innovation. The last section of the paper discusses briefly whether or not such an innovation is desirable."
"The R and D contract-award and bidding-decision process is studied from the points of view of both bidders and customers. Competitive bidding models are developed which incorporate such factors as probability of contract award, level of resource utilization, and expected return. Conditions for the existence of and methods for evaluating the probability of contract award are presented. Competitive bidding strategies for the cases of known and unknown numbers of bidders and single and multiproposal situations are investigated."
"A stochastic model is presented which purports to assess the “probability” of a given proposal “capturing” a job contract award. Parameters of the process are estimated by a constrained set of linear regression equations involving the ranked positions of identified competitors relative to factors thought to be influential in the award process. Intended use of the model includes: a) avoidance of preparation of potentially nonwinning proposals, b) quantitative inclusion of political, psychological, and/or other “nonquantitative” factors in the assessment of contract winning capability, and c) identification of areas where a unit improvement"
"In recruiting technical people, education, experience, and competency are required, but there is one more dimension which should be sought — a match between creative talent and the field of experience. Creative people can be divided into several categories, and their characteristics are discernable. Within these subdivisions of creative personnel, the proper mixture of creativity and field of experience must be achieved. An optimum staff distribution is presented, in which, ideally, the work of the organization would be more likely not only to remain on the R and D track set by management, but also to produce original work."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"DESPITE THE MANY formal models of the Research, Development, and Engineering (R, D, and E) Process1 and the many prescriptions on “how to manage” R, D, and E2 we are still seriously lacking in adequate descriptions of what actually takes place in this complex process. Absence of such descriptions has not, as it frequently has in physical science, prevented effective practice of the related arts — i.e., the management of R, D, and E, — but it is clear that better descriptions might help us to form a better basis for understanding and improving the art. The difficulty is that many of the phenomena we wish to describe in this field are not as amenable to measurement as those encountered in the physical realm. Indeed, when precise measurements of human behavior are attempted — e.g., the way that engineers and scientists spend their time — investigators encounter much skepticism and, often, strong resistance from their subjects."
"Four basic areas of possible influence have been investigated and found to bear some relationship to an engineering supervisor's allocation of time: the individual himself, in terms of his personal job interests and desires; his perception of his superior's desires in terms of time allocation; a set of role and task requirements manifest in his perception of how he ought to spend his time; and several structural characteristics of the organization. A clearer understanding of how an engineering supervisor allocates his time, in light of these pressures, would seem to be important if progress is to be made toward the more efficient utilization of engineering and scientific personnel."
"The aim of this paper is to suggest a method of describing and analyzing the progress of an engineering project. The major purpose of such a description is to facilitate a study of how the problem-solving processes involved are influenced by various kinds of impulses. The method is based on a few postulates about the nature of engineering work — engineering activity is assumed to consist mainly of heuristic problem solving. Several aspects or dimensions might be of interest in a description of project status or project progress. For the understanding of the administration of the project three sets of aspects seem to be of particular interest. One is the requirements of the customer. A second consists of various dimensions which influence the problem-solving process. A third is the suggested design of the product. All these aspects of the project change during the progress of the project. Although the reliability of such a descriptive method could not be tested, the experience gained was encouraging, above all because the scheme used for classification seemed to fit in well with the general perceptions of the engineers interviewed as to the progress of the project. The authors conclude that further research along these lines is indicated."
"The analytical problems of developing quantitative techniques for R & D investment management are often complicated by the existence of conflicting goals. Corporate goals may require the R & D manager to simultaneously seek the highest probable profits, the largest probable number of successes, and the greatest probable profits per dollar spent. Departmental goals may restrict the manager to some maximum budget, a minimum number of projects to be worked on, and minimum levels of accomplishment on specific projects. In a sense, then, the research manager is faced with a constrained multiple-output production problem: how much to spend on which project and how much to spend overall. This paper shows how a slight modification of Hess' approach to project selection [2] and an analogy to the theoretical economics of a multiple-product factory [4] have been used to help our research management simultaneously solve these project selection, resource allocation, and budget determination problems. Most approaches in the literature have treated these three problems separately [1], [3]."
"A system for more objectively evaluating a contractor's performance on cost type contracts is described. The technique utilizes the existing NASA PERT and Companion Cost System without imposing any additional reporting requirements upon the contractor. Evaluation is obtained by a cost index which is calculated monthly and is a comparison of the contractor's actual costs incurred with baseline allocated costs. The allocated costs result from a reasonable distribution or allocation of the contractor's initial cost proposal dollars to activities reflecting this proposal in PERT fragnets. After this initial allocation, the computer calculates with each normal PERT Time updating, the allocated costs, or the total-resources-allocated-for-work-accomplished through the report date. The results of a pilot test case using the cost index are presented."
"The major portion of this paper consists of a description of the rationale and use of RDE (Research and Development Effectiveness), a computerized planning program developed inhouse and designed to utilize analytical techniques in the management of R & D resources in the Air Force Flight Dynamics Laboratory, RTD, AFSC. For the three years (including this year) that the program has run, it has been to a degree experimental in that changes have been made to the measure of effectiveness model during the program evolution. Further changes at this time are not contemplated, so that next year time for preparation of input data will be markedly decreased. This will be possible by merely requiring the marking up of already prepared input plots rather than constructing entirely new ones. The capability to achieve detailed insights into the program at short notice has given rise to the initiation of development of an overall Management Information System for the Laboratory, which will complement the RDE program by providing past resource consumption trend data to key into the planning data obtained from the RDE program."
"A limited inquiry into the nature and degree of intellectual freedom allowed to scientists and engineers in U. S. industry has been accomplished. The several laboratories considered were selected solely on the basis of their generally accepted reputations and include only, but certainly not all, laboratories that are supposed to be outstanding. Because it was a practical impossibility to assess the relative freedom of the individual as seen by the scientist or engineer himself within the time available for this study, the investigation was addressed to an examination of management policies or the situation as authoritative and knowledgeable managers believed it to be."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"DAVIS, in the first article, continues an aspect of the theme of the first article in the September issue by Rubin, Stedry, and Willets — the content of the job of the R, D, and E administrator. While the latter article focuses on the time allocation among the supervisor's various functions, Davis concentrates on the nature of these functions (roles) themselves."
"The program manager's understanding of his management role is compared with his superior's and his subordinates' understanding of it. Seven role dimensions of his job are studied based on published studies of the task emphasis managers give to their role. Surveys of 144 respondents in two electronic companies show excellent congruence in understanding at all three levels studied in each company. Areas of disparity concern managerial orientation (compared with technical orientation) and employee orientation (compared with production orientation). Downward orientation and participative leadership style seem to be at odds with studies of factory supervision, and reasons are offered for these differences. Other data support earlier research emphasizing face-to-face communication, planning, and controlling as key elements in the program manager's job."
"This paper is an analysis of some of the conflicts found in one particular type of research and development organization — a large, high-prestige, full-capability, weapons development laboratory maintained by the U. S. Navy. The conflict situations, which are “unanticipated consequences” (or less important consequences) of bureaucratic decisions, are organized in terms of type of conflict as follows: 1) conflicts between “economy” and the achievement of technical objectives; 2) conflicts arising from the incongruence of subsystem objectives; 3) conflicts of the “sacred-cow” variety; 4) conflicts between headquarters objectives and field-activity objectives; 5) conflicts which involve the loyalties of specialized managers and directors of support activities; 6) conflicts which result from the attempt to unify a research “team” while keeping military elements of the team visible and separate; and 7) conflicts between productivity objectives and creativity objectives. Four recommendations are made for reducing the amount of conflict in military laboratories of the future: 1) increase the scope of authority of the individual project manager; 2) redefine the role of the military personnel in field laboratories, de-emphasizing their support and base-maintenance functions and increasing their tactical and strategic input to the laboratories; 3) transfer some of the functions currently performed in the headquarters (bureaus) to the field-activity level; and 4) modify certain elements in the more traditional organizational structure to implement recommendations 1), 2), and 3)."
"This study was undertaken for the purpose of evaluating the attitudes of research and development managers toward management training. The investigation had as specific purposes 1) to determine the attitudes of a selected group of research and development managers toward increasing the management training available at both the academic degree level and the in-plant training level; 2) to determine at which of these levels these same individuals prefer to have management training occur; and, 3) to identify those experiences and associations which may have influenced their attitudes toward management training. The findings of this study showed that research and development managers seem to feel that increased management training is needed at both the academic degree and the in-plant training levels. Management training at the in-plant level seems to be preferred to training at the academic degree level by the individuals surveyed. Also the attitudes of research and development managers appear to be functions of their own management training, experience, and responsibilities."
"Presented is an integer programming project assignment model based on five key assumptions: 1) the research projects that need to be assigned have been already approved by the company management, 2) the effort required to carry out the research has been estimated to be approximately equal to the company research capacity, 3) it is possible to assign a given project to any one of several research teams or laboratories, 4) researchers vary in their efficiency to research a given project. and 5) it is possible to quantify this difference. A sample problem is solved using a transportation type algorithm."
"The power and usefulness of flowgraphs to formulate and utilize models of complex financial and administrative problems are demonstrated. Specific problems investigated in detail include the compound interest evaluations, the Hoskold Transformation for determining profitability in research, the weighted guidelines approach for establishing profit in R and D contracts, and the solution of problems by linear programming techniques. The range of application is broadened to include relatively complex systems such as economic models. The engineering executive, as a technical expert, must communicate effectively and unambiguously with salesmen, accountants, and engineers as well as corporation officers. To facilitate this communication, a common language is needed to serve many fields. Flowgraphs are shown to provide an effective evaluation technique for linear systems similar to the classic management tools PERT and CPM, with equal completeness and visualization. The scope of the flowgraph is much broader, however, and extends from applications such as cost and profit to complex microelectronic systems."
"The relationship of satisfaction, both desired and obtained, and ability to engineering productivity is discussed. The influence of ability on productivity is described together with the relationship of ability and job requirements. The underlying job frustration because of a lack of know-how is compared to the frustration resulting from ability exceeding job requirement. Since aspirations change, the factors in determining the amount of effect satisfaction would have on productivity as goals and needs begin to change is described and news is given to the fact that as desired satisfaction increases, obtained satisfaction is proportionately reduced. The problem of professionalism is discussed as related to security, prestige, authority, financial reward, and other satisfaction requirements."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisement: The PAR Model PPMS-1 is a self-contained system consisting of the basic components required for making one part per million measurements of external resistance ratios or external DC voltages extending to 1000 volts. The system, with accuracy traceable to N.B.S., consists basically of a 10 volt DC source whose saturated standard cell reference is housed in a proportional temperature controlled oven (maintained within 0.001°C), a self-calibrating 7 decade Kelvin-Varley divider and a null indicator having a basic full scale sensitivity of ±1 microvolt. An output signal fully isolated from, but proportional to the deflection of the null meter is provided to drive strip-chart recorders and thereby function as a selfcontained monitor of the stability of other voltage supplies. In addition, this unit can serve as the controlling element in ultra-stable variable voltage or current supplies with the addition of power amplifiers which are available as accessory items. A unique method of self-calibrating the four most significant decades of the Kelvin-Varley divider without additional equipment as well as means of verifying oven temperature and standard cell voltage are provided. Price $4950."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In this centennial year of the publication of \" A Dynamical Theory of the Electromagnetic Field\" special interest attaches to James Clerk-Maxwell and his ideas. The author has found two little-known observations by Maxwell on his regard for Faraday's conceptions. Maxwell's indebtedness to Faraday, for providing the notions upon which an Electromagnetic Theory could be based, is well known (SPECTRUM, December, 1964). A confirmatory anecdote related by the late Sir William Bragg in a lecture he gave in 1941 at the Royal Institution in London is noted. A second, more important development occurred after Maxwell had completed his famous Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism, published in 1873. It appears he embarked on An Elementary Treatise on Electricity. In the preface of this book Maxwell made some sensational statements. The book was published posthumously, incomplete, in 1881, and only a fragment of the preface remains. With acknowledgements to the Oxford University Press we quote a Fragment of Author's Preface. Maxwell is shown to have taken the view originated by Bacon that evolutionary knowledge must include induction from instances as well as deduction from premises. Our modern scientific civilization is essentially Baconian. Faraday discovered electromagnetism, Maxwell deduced that light was an electromagnetic phenomenon. Experiment and analysis must always be complementary, whence Maxwell's greatest tribute to Faraday, as chronicled here."
"United States air defenses have been given a boost by the first Backup Interceptor Control (BUIC) installation. Located at North Truro, Mass., near the tip of Cape Cod, the high-speed computerized control center will furnish air defense commanders with up-to-the-minute information on any airborne threats to the Boston air defense sector. This facility is only one of many widely dispersed semiautomatic control centers that will back up the SAGE (Semiautomatic Ground Environment) system and take over in the event one or more SAGE direction centers become inoperative."
"A $6 million IBM System/360 timesharing computer complex is to be installed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Computation Center. It will serve MIT and 51 other cooperating colleges and universities in New England."
"Now that most of the transients associated with the merger of AIEE and IRE into IEEE have passed, it is well to re-examine the roles played by various IEEE publications."
"Of the myriad uses of radio, probably the least known — and in many respects the least appreciated — are those encompassed under the general heading of the Land Mobile Services. These services involve, principally, two-way base-to-mobile and mobile-to-mobile voice communication systems. Every part of our industrial, social, and economic structure has found it possible to operate more efficiently and more effectively by adapting radio to its present-day needs. For the most part, these radio systems are now indispensable and are an integral part of the entities concerned, whether they be industrial, public-safety oriented, or any other type. But public knowledge of the extent of the organization of these activities around radio is extremely limited even though the public uses radio-equipped taxicabs and watches television enough to know that the police use two-way radio."
"Radar astronomy evolved shortly after World War II when groups in Hungary and the United States independently detected radar echoes from the moon by utilizing radar equipment developed during the war. During the following ten years radar research was motivated primarily by the desire to use the moon as a passive reflector in communication systems. It was not until the middle 1950s that lunar radar experiments were conducted as a pure science.1 It was realized at that time that the distortions on the returned signal caused by the target and the medium could be analyzed in such a manner as to yield fundamental information on the nature of the lunar surface and cislunar space."
"Until quite recently, the smog in Los Angeles was the butt of every radio and television comedian. It was subjected to ridicule as the world's worst example of an out-of-control condition that was apparently without remedy."
"Historically, man has been a curious animal, and this has spurred his progress. He has searched for the invisible and has probed for the unknown; he has groped for the inaccessible and has struggled for the unattainable. He has disobeyed every injunction that he not eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge. But he has accepted the great challenge that if you know the truth, “the truth shall make you free.” The fruit of the tree of knowledge has been sweet, and it has been bitter. If knowledge and truth shattered the dream of some placid Eden, man has been content to labor outside the gates. And today, even though the prospect may sometimes be awesome, he is using all the keys of his genius to unlock the doors that hide Nature's secrets."
"As a result of advances in transducer materials, wave propagation technology, and device inventions, ultrasonic delay lines are now available with a large variety of delay characteristics and for operation over a wide range of frequencies that extend from the kilocycle to the microwave range. In this paper the principles of operation and characteristics of presently available designs will be reviewed, together with a description of some of the delay and amplification devices that are currently being developed and which should become available shortly."
"In recent years, manufacturing firms have shown growing concern over the problem of achieving their profit goals. The main causes of this concern are (1) the rapid increase of competition in the market place; and (2) the accelerating rate of obsolescence of newly introduced products. Firms faced with these problems or wishing to improve on their profit objectives are placing greater emphasis on management decision making, which facilitates more efficient use of the firm's resources."
"Extensive present demands and much greater projected future needs for high-speed error-free relaying of data have provided an additional stimulus to the communications engineer's interest in efficient transmission and processing of information-bearing signals. A topically well-unified view of current work motivated by this interest was evident in the technical program of the Symposium on Signal Transmission and Processing held at Columbia University in New York City, May 13 and 14, 1965. The symposium was sponsored jointly by the IEEE Circuit Theory Group and the Department of Electrical Engineering of Columbia University. Held in conjunction with the Centennial Celebration of Columbia's School of Engineering and Applied Science, the symposium was part of a year-long series of events commemorating the founding of the Columbia School of Mines in 1864."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Advertisement: IEEE publications."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisements."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Harold Levenstein, of our Space Systems Department, who admits to a silent crush on his geometry teacher in high school, has devised the following graphical scheme for solving and plotting the solution of linear difference equations with constant coefficients as an occasionally useful tool in systems analysis. [Advertisement sponsored by Airborne Instruments Laboratory (AIL), Deer Park, Long Island, New York, USA]"
"FM radio receiver sales have more than tripled since 1960, according to the Electronic Industries Association. An increase of 40 percent above 1964 sales is expected by the end of 1966. The EIA statistics, which include domestic and foreign sets, show that one out of every four home radios sold in 1964 could receive FM."
"Reviews interesting items published 75, 50, and 25 years ago by the IEEE and its precdecessor publications."
"A working model of an artificial arm that bends at the elbow and turns its hand, all by remote electric signals from living, moving muscles, was displayed during the American Congress of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Philadelphia in August."
"Some changes were made in the IEEE Bylaws by the Board of Directors at its August meeting in San Francisco, Calif., which will affect the publications of the Institute. The objective is an improved publications program."
"The availability of increasingly fast semiconductor devices is continuously opening up new fields of application. Those fields, in turn, stimulate the device designer to increase the speed of these devices even further. The circuit engineer who is working at this speed frontier is faced with the problem of always utilizing the presently available elements to the limit of their capabilities."
"In reviewing the state of the automatic control art in a given field of application, it seems appropriate first to take note of progress in the field itself. Changes in process techniques or objectives define new requirements and opportunities for advances in control concepts and equipment. Accordingly, this survey article will endeavor to “close the gap” between theory and practice by doing three things: (1) review in brief the growth and progress of the power industry itself; (2) make some comments on recent significant trends and innovations in its processes insofar as they relate to major areas of automatic control application; (3) discuss the state of the art in these applications."
"The determination of the axial rotational rate of Venus has long been an objective of planetary astronomers. It may be surprising to learn that we know the rotational period of all the planets in the solar system, even the most distant planet Pluto, with the exception of the planet that comes nearest to us, Venus! This anomaly fundamentally arose for two reasons: (1) Venus is shrouded with a thick, almost featureless cloud cover that prevents us from seeing its surface; and (2) Venus rotates very slowly. If the surface could be seen, we could track the motion of various markings and thus determine the rotation; or if Venus' rotation were faster, we could observe the relative Doppler shift of the lines in its optical spectrum resulting from the difference in velocity between its approaching and receding limbs. We could then compute the period from this velocity. Unfortunately, Venus appears to rotate so slowly that the errors in the classical velocity measurements have been as great as the velocity actually measured."
"The importance of the internal memory in computers cannot be overemphasized. The very fact that all information as to what to do, how to do it, and on what data to do it is in memory makes the computer a general processor that can be adapted to any specific task. The universality of the computer has extended its usefulness to practically all activities of men."
"For many years a professor of mathematics and electrical engineering, as well as consultant, Dr. Daniel Noble, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Motorola, Inc., is one of those unusual men who at the right time turned his intellectual capacities to the successful direction of what has become a major and revolutionary new industry — that which has grown out of solid-state electronics. He is now responsible for a complex of facilities at Phoenix, Ariz., involving three divisions and more than 10 000 employees, as well as the Communications Division in Chicago. Dr. Noble is distinguished in many more ways than there is space to list: he pioneered the application of FM to two-way mobile radio communications systems, he is a Fellow and, former Director of both the IRE and the IEEE, and, in 1962, he received the Western Electronics Manufacturers Association's Medal of Achievement for his accomplishments as a scientist, business executive, educator, and civic leader. Not so well known as yet, perhaps, is the fact that he has recently turned his gifts to painting."
"The first IEEE annual communications convention, sponsored by the IEEE Communications Technology Group, was held in Boulder, Colo., June 7–9, 1965. A wide range of communication subjects was covered."
"An opportunity to visit NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center and to attend technical sessions covering the breadth of aerospace technology marked the 1965 Aerospace technical conference and Exhibit, held at the Shamrock Hilton Hotel in Houston, Tex., from June 21 to 24. The conference was sponsored by the Aerospace Group and the Houston Section of the IEEE and was also supported by the Society of Automotive Engineers, ASME, and the Society of Value Engineers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Advertisement: IEEE publications."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisement: The PAR Model HR-8 Lock-In Amplifier represents a significant advance in signal processing equipment for experimentalists who must measure low-level signal intensities in the presence of noise. It employs the theoretically optimum technique for signal recovery, and can be incorporated into a large class of experiments in which the signal of interest is, or can be made periodic, and in which a reference voltage related in frequency and phase to the signal can be obtained."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Advertisement: Work on superconducting magnets for both masers and millimeter cryogenic detectors at AIL has led us into a challenging new application of superconductivity. This is an introductory report by Frank Arams, Ken Siegel, Joe Fradkin, and Gene Sard of our Applied Electronics Department. [Advertisement sponsored by Airborne Instruments Laboratory (AIL) Deer Park, Long Island, New York, USA.]"
"The sea around us is far from silent; it is noisier than the average environment on land. This is the conclusion of a study of the sounds of the sea available from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Scientists at the American Museum of Natural History who made the study for the Navy say the average level of sea noise is about 10 to 15 dB above 1 microbar. This noise level is roughly comparable to a busy office with typewriters clattering, papers rustling, people walking and talking, and telephones ringing."
"A combination water — power plant is now being completed in the U.S. Virgin Islands that will produce one million gallons of fresh water daily and 7500 kW of electric power. The plant, a Westinghouse Electric Corporation installation, will provide water to the town of Charlotte Amalie and electricity for the 20 000 residents of St. Thomas, plus the large tourist influx."
"The American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) recently issued the preliminary report of its “Goals of Engineering Education” study. This study, which has been under way for the last three years, has focused on the current practices in engineering education in the United States. The presently available report∗ is a preliminary one which has been distributed for comment before the final report is issued in the spring of 1966. Although the report relates only to engineering education in the United States, it will be of considerable interest to all engineers and in particular, to engineering educators. The “Recommendations” section of the preliminary report appears on pages 84 and 85 of this issue."
"The advanced technologies of our time have made it possible to remove man's long-held dream of space exploration from the realm of science fiction into the everyday world of practical reality."
"Biomedical engineering is among the most recent additions to the technological professions. Since its greatest triumphs and major contributions to humanity are still in the future, it is literally as new as tomorrow. It is a “cross-disciplinary” branch of engineering. And it results in large measure from the application of the skills and capabilities of modern electronics to the fields of biology, medicine, and surgery."
"The transmission of pictures by pulse code modulation (PCM) has been investigated by various researchers1, 2 for more than a decade. Recently, interest has reached a new high, partly because of the possible military and space applications. The purpose of the present article is to describe briefly some of the research work being carried on in Pcm picture transmission at the Cognitive Information Processing Group (CIPG) of the Research Laboratory of Electronics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Many other groups, notably the Bell Telephone Laboratories researchers, are also working extensively in this area."
"In his book Growing Up Absurd, the social critic Paul Goodman postulates this model of the youth of today: they see themselves growing up in an apparently closed room, that of the highly organized establishment, in which there is a large rat race as the dominant center of attention, and in which there is little leeway for them to live and work satisfactorily as individuals. In a more specialized sense, an important question for the community of professional engineers is whether or not the young engineers of today do not also see something of the closed-room aspect before them when they behold the giant organizations founded principally on the engineering arts. How do engineers view their chances for satisfaction and success, for doing worthwhile work, in today's technological situation which is generally admitted to be so different from that prevailing a generation ago? In actual fact, what are their chances?"
"It is a most satisfying experience to be able to proceed from simple, intuitive, basic premises in a straight line to a sophisticated understanding of a very fundamental concept. Historically, most philosophical and scientific concepts in their development do not progress in this logical pattern. Most often progress is made or setbacks occur in a rather disjointed manner as the pressures and talents of the time are sporadically brought to bear on a particular problem area. It is only after much controversy, speculation, charges, and countercharges that hindsight shows us a clearer and more direct path through the morass. The uninitiated seeking a route to clarity is confronted with a jungle of information, and more often than not gives up in despair."
"Diversity in the technical program characterized the sixth annual Joint Automatic Control Conference (ACC), held in June of this year on the campus of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. This conference is jointly sponsored by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the Instrument Society of America, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the IEEE. It was founded to bring together, once each year, reports on the latest developments in automatic control theory, applications, and components. This year's conference, conducted by ASME, attracted some 700 attendees from the five sponsoring societies."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Advertisement: IEEE publications."
"Advertisement: In recognition of the giant strides taken in recent scientific developments, JTAC has brought together an up-to-the-minute, world-wide review of radio spectrum utilization. This broad treatise makes a fine reference volume for your desk or library."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisements."
"Engineering is topped only by medicine in terms of public esteem according to a recent Gallup survey as reported by the National Society of Professional Engineers. But there is widespread lack of understanding as to what engineers actually do. Respondents in the Gallup sampling were handed a card listing nine professions and asked which one they would recommend first to a young man who asked for advice, assuming he was qualified to enter any of the professions. A total of 33 percent said doctor, 18 percent said engineer, and 11 percent said scientist. Next in order by percentage were lawyer, 7; clergyman, 7; dentist, 5; professor, 4; government administrator, 3; and banker, 2 (8 percent did not choose; 2 percent selected other professions). Those who chose engineering gave these reasons for their choice: best future, diversity of opportunity, good income, and engineers are needed."
"The Unit of Self-Induction. “The Secretary: — The next subject to be discussed and acted on is the adoption of an American name or names for one or more practical electrical units. This matter was also referred to this meeting by the Council, June 17th. The resolutions have been printed in all the papers, and I have them here if the members wish them read…” (See IEEE spectrum, June 1965, p. 10.)"
"Though somewhat overshadowed by larger and more glamorous “scientific” satellites and recent Gemini missions, two satellites of special interest to engineers were launched on May 6 from Cape Kennedy. One was designed to serve as a primary standard for the accurate calibration of large tracking and measurements radar systems, and the other as a test bed for realistic evaluation of advanced techniques for military communication satellites. Both satellites were designed by the M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory, Lexington, Mass."
"A data processing and transmission system that hitches a ride from falling stars has been successfully demonstrated by The Boeing Company from the location of an underwater mountain in the Pacific Ocean."
"A prediction about the way electrons should scatter as they crash into a column of standing light waves has been given preliminary confirmation — 32 years after the prediction was made."
"Plateaus and peaks of heat rising from one area of the moon's cold surface during eclipse are represented as physical contours on a thermal map prepared from data collected by two Boeing Company physicists, John Saari and Richard Shorthill, during a lunar heat-mapping experiment in Egypt last year. The floor of the map represents a temperature of −144°F, the moon's general surface temperature during eclipse. Each ½0 of an inch plateau above the map's floor represents an area 30 degrees warmer than the eclipsed lunar surface. Some of the highest “temperature peaks” on the thermal contour map are craters which remain as much as 100°F warmer than the surface during eclipse. Oddly enough, during noneclipse periods, some thermal contours are reversed (the heat peaks becoming cool wells in the lunar surface) while some are not. The heat map described above is of the moon's Sea of Tranquillity (see photo on page 18). Eventually, the Boeing physicists hope to build a thermal contour map of the moon's entire visible surface."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A television recorder that utilizes only l/4-inch standard sound recording tape to capture both picture and sound was recently demonstrated. Noteworthy among the recorder's features is the operation on the linear system, which is similar to the fixedhead Vera machine developed by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). Also available is a monitor which is important to the ease and efficiency of producing the best recording results. Other components include an excellent camera for use in taping on-the-spot scenes. The aforementioned demonstration aimed the camera out a hotel window toward a nearby park as the visitor saw it. The same view as \"seen\" by the camera was shown on the television screen by means of the recorder. The recorder is manufactured by Wesgrove Electrics Ltd., Worcester, England. It is sold through Wesgrove International, San Francisco, Calif."
"Eastman Kodak Company will provide about $250 000 in awards this year to 25 college and university graduate departments under the research grants phase of the company's aid-to-education program."
"A gas laser that generates the highest continuous output so far observed at infrared frequencies has been developed. Sixteen watts of power at 10.6 microns was obtained."
"A 61-year-old bachelor who is deaf reported that he “heard” sounds in experiments in which two researchers from the Stanford University School of Medicine electrically stimulated his hearing nerve."
"Construction began in mid-June at Cornell University on the world's most powerful circular electron accelerator — a 10-billion-electron-volt instrument estimated to cost $11298 000. The National Science Foundation is financing the project."
"The IEEE's Manpower Requirements. Professional societies have a unique characteristic in being dependent on voluntary contributions of time and effort by members in order to operate. Yet as these societies have grown in size and complexity it becomes increasingly clear that systematic methods must be developed for locating among the members those capable of accepting significant responsibility for the development of the societies. Not only must able and willing individuals be located, but they must also understand the societies' problems in sufficient detail to be able to find appropriate solutions."
"The techniques of quantum electronics allow interesting new ways to generate and explore most of the acoustic spectrum and much of the electromagnetic domain. We can look forward to another decade of rapid development in this field From the time when man first saw the sunlight until very recently, the light which he has used has come predominantly from spontaneous emission, like the random emission of incandescent sources. So have most other types of electromagnetic radiation — infrared, ultraviolet, or gamma rays. The maximum radiation intensities, or specifically the power radiated per unit area per unit solid angle per unit frequency bandwidth, have been controlled by Planck's black-body law for radiation from hot objects. This sets an upper limit on radiation intensity — a limit which increases with increasing temperature, but we have had available temperatures of only a few tens of thousands or possibly a few millions of degrees."
"The broad subject of electromagnetic telecommunication in the United States is examined, with the stress on the importance of atmospheric research to this growing field This report is based on material prepared during 1964 for the Interdepartmental Committee for Atmospheric Sciences, entitled “Atmospheric Research Required to Facilitate Electromagnetic Telecommunication.” The authors were chairman and secretary, respectively, of the Steering Committee set up to guide the preparation of the report. Part I of this report deals with the economic magnitude of electromagnetic telecommunication in the nation, and discusses the interactions between atmospheric science and electromagnetic telecommunication. Part II, to appear next month, will present an analysis of the fiscal year 1964 telecommunication-oriented atmospheric research across the nation, and discusses the balance of this research program relative to the atmospheric research needed to support the nation's telecommunication activities."
"Man's dream for centuries has been to turn the oceans into sweet water. Today we know that this dream will be fulfilled tomorrow for the vast arid regions from the Mojave Desert to the Sahara, where human prosperity — and survival — depend upon new sources of fresh water “Water, water, every where, And all the boards did shrink; Water, water, every where Nor any drop to drink.” Samuel Taylor Coleridge The Ancient Mariner Back in 49 B.C., Julius Caesar attempted to convert salt water to fresh water during the siege of Alexandria. In 1963 A.D., in the United States, President Kennedy said: “If it can be done inexpensively, it will dwarf any other scientific accomplishment.” And he directed that a maximum effort be made during his administration to achieve a major breakthrough in increasing water supplies by low-cost water desalting and purification. Today, this program has been greatly accelerated, and Federal funds for this effort have doubled the previous appropriations."
"The ion engine offers one of the most promising techniques for long-duration space propulsion, for missions ranging from the prime propulsion of manned interplanetary vehicles to the control of earth satellites As we look ahead to the more ambitious missions that man will wish to accomplish in space — the missions requiring longer times and therefore greatest propulsion energy — we seek a reaction rocket with a high propellant exhaust velocity. This high velocity allows the generation of thrust with relatively less consumption of propellant, with significant advantage to the mission in the additional payload capability of the spacecraft as less propellant is required. The only way presently known to obtain propellant exhaust velocities significantly higher (by a factor of 10 to 100) than those of current chemical rockets is by means of the acceleration of charged particles. In principle, electrical acceleration can provide essentially any exhaust velocity, by proper choice of the particle mass and the accelerating voltage. In practice, however, the engines that have reached the highest state of development and currently show the greatest promise use heavy ions (having atomic masses of approximately 100 to 200) as the propellant, accelerated through 3000 to 10 000 volts."
"The winds of change accelerating the growth of electric power in the United States are no longer blowing gently. Basic factors affecting the loading capacity of overhead lines (a common index of electrical capability) are herein examined Before the turn of the century, ac polyphase transmission had been firmly established in the transportation of electric energy. Doubling approximately every ten years, the growth rate in the production and consumption of electric power has been more than twice that for the Gross National Product, and much faster than the rate of increase in the population."
"You would like to try it. (You have heard that photographic processing is now so fuss-free and compact that it can go on all by itself in unmanned spacecraft.)"
"A rising host of practical problems are plaguing activities (such as libraries) that exhibit the ‘cumulative effect.’ Time-sharing computer systems, and the automatic analysis of information by statistical and structural means, are shaping a variety of methods and procedures that may provide a feasible solution “So much time and effort has been spent chasing the will-o'-the-wisp of automatic document and data retrieval that far too little attention has been paid to those positive phenomena (such as man-to-man communication) which have kept the whole show going in spite of the alleged ‘information explosion.’” A. G. Oettinger1 “The geometrical rate of increase in scientific and technological publications raises no particular problems, does not create any particular threatening situations, and does not require crash programs…. The only areas in which the retrieval situation is intrinsically worsening are those which exhibit the ‘cumulative effect,’ especially the areas of law, patent searching, and library acquisitions.” Y. Bar Hillel2"
"One of the major themes underlying the Human Factors Symposium in Boston this May was the crucial relationship between men and computers. In general, it was said, our computers are rapidly becoming so economical that now we are obliged to find ways of making better use of the people who use the computers. The problem of man — computer interaction, the man — machine interface, has come to the foreground."
"“The need to get the maximum use from existing computer systems” was stressed at the opening session of the three-day Fourth Power Industry Computer Application Conference at the Jack Tar Harrison Hotel in Clearwater, Fla."
"An author should familiarize himself with the following information before he prepares and submits a manuscript to any of the more than 30 journals published by the IEEE. Review and editorial processing of a manuscript are facilitated if it is in the proper form."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"The Second Annual Conference of the Industrial and Commercial Power Systems Committee of IEEE will take place October 5–7 in Buffalo, N.Y., at the Statler Hilton Hotel."
"Technical papers are solicited for the IEEE Region Six Annual Conference which will take place April 26–28 in Tucson, Ariz., at the Pioneer International Hotel."
"The 1965 Systems Science Conference will be held at the Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland, Ohio, on October 18–19. The conference is sponsored by the IEEE Systems Science and Cybernetics Group, with the cooperation of the Operations Research Society of America and the Society for General Systems Research. The Case Institute of Technology will be host for the conference."
"Registration of 126 was recorded at the Ninth Annual Rural Electrification Conference of IEEE, which took place May 24–25 in San Francisco at the St. Francis Hotel."
"The 20th National Conference of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) will take place August 24–26 in Cleveland at the Sheraton-Cleveland Hotel."
"“Engineering Design to Fit the Environment” is the title of an Engineering Foundation Research Conference to be held at Proctor Academy in Andover, N.H., August 16–20."
"“International Impact on Engineering Managers” will be the theme of the Joint Engineering Societies Management Conference at its 13th annual meeting, September 13–14, at the New York Hilton at Rockefeller Center in New York City."
"The 13th Annual International Solid-State Circuits Conference will be held February 9–11 in Philadelphia, on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania and at the Sheraton Hotel."
"A call for papers on subjects related to electrical, electronics, and mechanical engineering and correlated branches is announced for the first Pan American Congress of Electrical, Electronics, and Mechanical Engineering, which will take place October 9 to 17 at the Hotel Del Prado and the Auditorio Nacional in Mexico City."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
"The International Antenna and Propagation Symposium will take place August 30 to September 1 in Washington, D.C., at the Sheraton Park Hotel."
"Stephen E. Harris (M '64), assistant professor of electrical engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif., is the recipient of the 1965 Alfred Noble Prize."
"A call for papers has been issued by the International Symposium on Information Theory, which will take place January 31–February 2 at the University of California in Los Angeles. The symposium is sponsored by the Information Theory Group of IEEE."
"The IEEE Electron Devices Group has scheduled a two-day Tutorial Symposium to be held at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco, August 23–24, in connection with the Western Electronic Show and Convention."
"The 18th Annual Conference and Exhibit on Engineering in Medicine and Biology will take place November 10–12 in Philadelphia at the Sheraton Hotel."
"An authority on rapid transit and an official of the United Mine Workers will be featured luncheon speakers at a three-day Materials Handling Technical Conference, October 18–20, in the Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa."
"W. K. Lewis, professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has been designated the John Fritz Medal recipient for 1966."
"E.D. Shanken has been appointed executive director of Engineers Joint Council's new program in the area of continuing education. Mr. Shanken will be working in conjunction with R. J. Raudebaugh, director of the program."
"Papers on all aspects of extra-high-voltage transmission will be featured at the EHV Transmission Conference, which will take place October 4–6 in Richmond, Va."
"Plans for the third Winter Power Meeting of the IEEE, to be held in New York City, January 30 through February 4, 1966, are gathering momentum, according to General Chairman Martin Lennig."
"The IEEE Executive Committee approved the following Chapters at its meeting on June 23, 1965:"
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Wanted: Uncommitted Scientists. In his keynote address to the 1964 Conference on Precision Electromagnetic Measurements, “The Significance of the CPEM,” Edward W. Houghton stresses that the maturing recognition of the essential role of precision measurements accounts for the success of the CPEM conferences, which report the finest techniques and best ideas for precision measurements that have been developed in scientific laboratories throughout the nation and the world. Most of the papers presented at the 1964 CPEM appear in a special issue of the IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, which has just been published. The issue should be of wide interest to engineers and scientists in research and industry who are on the lookout for important new precision measurement developments."
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, 345 East 47 Street, New York, N.Y. 10017. Please do not request copies of individual articles as they are not available."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department∗, 275 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., 345 East 47th Street, New York, N.Y. 10017. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the inside front cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this magazine."
"Advertisements."
"Atomic power projects now operating or being built have an aggregate capacity of about 3.9 million kW and involve company expenditures of about $1.1 billion. These figures were given by J. Harris Ward of the Edison Electric Institute in testifying before the United States Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy. Mr. Ward stated that, today, 130 investor-owned companies are participating in one or more of 28 nuclear power projects, including 12 units in operation and six under construction or design."
"Standard Wiring Table. “The Council of this Institute at its regular monthly meeting held December 3, 1889, appointed a Committee' to formulate and submit for approval a standard wiring table for lighting and power purposes.”"
"A 735 000-volt power line, which is believed to set a record in extra-high-voltage transmission, is being constructed this summer across the St. Lawrence River. By 1974, when three other similar transmission lines are scheduled for completion, Quebec's power availability for industrial development will thus be almost doubled. It is estimated that the finished enterprise will produce almost 6 million kW."
"An advanced type of nuclear fuel particle that opens the way to important reductions in the cost of generating electric power from the atom has resulted from research cosponsored by 23 investor-owned electric utility companies."
"Two techniques have been developed whereby all of the energy of a high-power multimode laser can be obtained at single frequency."
"An undergraduate program that links engineering with medicine and the life sciences has been announced by the University of California at Berkeley."
"A camera system that uses a solid-state imaging device instead of an electronic tube for light sensing and image conversion has been developed under a NASA contract by the Aerospace Division of the Westinghouse Defense and Space Center and has been delivered to NASA's George C. Marshall Space Flight Center."
"The Second International Biophysics Congress will be held in Vienna, Austria, on September 5–9, 1966. The congress will be organized by the International Organization for Pure and Applied Biophysics."
"United States and foreign scientists plan to collect extraterrestrial dust particles this summer using rockets launched into the extreme upper atmosphere by the Office of Aerospace Research's Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories. The rockets are being launched from the Churchill Research Range in Canada."
"A coherent-light oscillator that can be tuned over a broad band of frequencies was demonstrated recently by scientists at the Bell Telephone Laboratories."
"Two seminars related to the measurement of high pulse voltage (100 kV and above) and microwave high power (100 kW average and greater) were held at the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C., on April 14–15, 1965. The purpose of these meetings was to identify the areas in which future work by NBS would be most valuable to industry, to recommend methods of high pulse voltage and microwave high-power measurements which should be proposed for adoption in military specifications of microwave high-power tubes, and to provide conference participants with an opportunity for a general exchange of information."
"The Power Division of the American Society of Civil Engineers will sponsor its first national convention in Denver, Colo., August 18–20. The theme of the conference is “Electric Power — Today and Tomorrow.”"
"What do sweet-tasting things have in common? Some facts that may help to answer this question have been uncovered by Dr. Y. Okaya, International Business Machines Corporation crystallographer, who has determined exactly how atoms are arranged in saccharin, the artificial sweetener."
"In a novel contribution to the science of navigation, “electronic maps” of the ocean bottom will pinpoint the position of NASA ships that furnish tracking and telemetry information to the Apollo astronauts on the first leg of their voyage around the moon."
"The Fourth Annual Symposium on the Physics of Failure in Electronics will be held in Chicago, Ill., November 16 through 18, at the Grover M. Hermann Hall."
"The Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn has announced a new program of engineering courses intended to aid industry in keeping technical personnel up to date on the latest engineering techniques. The initial NET (New Engineering Techniques) program will consist of 18 separate courses in the fields of linear systems, computer science, heat transfer, rocket propulsion, chemical reactor design, and creativity."
"I enjoyed reading Part III of the Spectrum article on “Machine recognition of human language” (May, pages 105–116), which reviewed in part my work on handwriting recognition. However, I wish to point out one misstatement that might lead to some misleading conclusions."
"We were greatly interested in the paper on “Computer-controlled power systems” (April and May spectrum), particularly in the discussion of area controls and load dispatch."
"With regard to the problem solved by Steinmetz as reported in April spectrum, while I do not for a moment doubt that the Doctor arrived at his solution in a few jottings, I do doubt that his friend should require one hour to do so."
"Information Systems and the IEEE. With the development of new methods of transferring and retrieving scientific and technical information, the question arises, “Are there more efficient and effectual ways of disseminating technical information than by publication of periodicals and their distribution to subscribers?” It is clear that some of the new techniques of information transfer presently under discussion could have a profound effect on the operations of the IEEE. It is therefore of utmost importance that the Institute keep abreast of, and contribute positively to, these developments."
"Electronics may be approaching a plateau. To ensure a renewed growth, a new philosphy of engineering is needed. In such a philosophy, systems engineering and the physical sciences will provide complementary and lasting disciplines for our future innovators. To many experienced observers in industry, government, and education, the electronics industry looks young and vigorous with a bright and unlimited future. The spark of transistor science and the power of large financial support by industry and government have brought electronics rapidly to major industry status. If its growth continues, it promises to pervade all aspects of our socioeconomic lives."
"A survey of a dramatic field of endeavor: in which the role of engineers is assessed, and in which eminent doctors and engineers voice their views on the many problems involved — medical, technical, and otherwise There is no doubt that engineers can and do play an important role in the development of artificial organs for humans, just as there is little doubt now in the minds of most of the major investigators in this field that, as in the case of the total artificial heart, such developments are completely feasible, and will, in fact, come about."
"Interconnections recently completed and under way represent a big step toward the electrical integration of three vast areas: the Southwest, the Pacific Northwest, and British Columbia. Of particular significance is the use of dc transmission for two of the projected four ties between the Northwest and the Southwest"
"“I am convinced an adequate supply of energy is far more important to the security of our country than an adequate supply of gold …” The day is drawing near when three vast areas — the Southwest and the Pacific Northwest of the United States and British Columbia in Canada — will be integrated electrically, and a power system composed of many separately owned and managed utilities will extend from Alaska through northern British Columbia to the Mexican border."
"The members of Western Energy Supply and Transmission (WEST) Associates probably meet no problems that are not typical of those met by the vast majority of utility companies in providing energy services for their areas. Utilities all serve the same types of customers: residential, commercial, industrial, and agricultural. However, some are combination companies and others are electric only. Some serve fairly dense population areas and others are spread across tremendous expanses of territory."
"On January 17, 1961, the United States and Canada signed the Columbia River Treaty. This comprised an agreement between the two governments for the cooperative development of power, and the mutual provision of flood control benefits, in the basin of the magnificent river whose name has been in our headlines for so many years. The treaty was supplemented by a codicil signed three years later on January 22, 1964, which spelled out and clarified certain of its terms. At the same time agreement was reached on the terms of sale under which the United States would be entitled to use the Canadian share of the downstream benefits resulting from dam construction in British Columbia for a period of 30 years."
"The concluding portion of this two-part article presents an analysis of telecommunication-oriented atmospheric research in the United States for the fiscal year 1964 For a research program to be considered an atmospheric science program, we have required that physical information about the atmosphere, rather than just the electrical channel characteristics of the transmission medium, be obtained. Propagation studies that do not give physical information about the atmosphere have therefore been excluded. Examples of studies excluded are compilations of statistics of transmission loss, phase, or bandwidth, unless these are used to deduce physical information about the atmosphere. In addition, for a research program to qualify for inclusion in this analysis it must be, in the view of the reporting organization, directed toward understanding atmospheric effects on electromagnetic propagation rather than toward one of the other objectives of the Interdepartmental Committee for Atmospheric Sciences (ICAS), such as “scientific understanding.”"
"Space technology has not changed the fundamental character of scientific development, but it has created many demands on science and has hastened many investigations that otherwise might not receive prompt attention A great deal is being said these days about the “impact” of space exploration on science. “Impact” is a harsh word, which perhaps explains the extent to which it has become fashionable in these harsh times. I have not consulted my dictionary because, having driven an automobile in heavy traffic for many years, I have direct physical experience with the word. I know what it means. In fact, all of us who have followed the accounts of the embryonic stages of lunar exploration in the form of the Ranger series obviously know what the commentator meant when he triumphantly shouted “Impact!” after an exciting sequence of pictures closer and closer to the surface of the moon."
"New static components and devices, many of which are characterized by decreasing cost with time, are being developed at a rapid rate. A review of their properties and applications, at this time, is in order Although the SCR is only seven years old,1 many of the original types are either obsolescent or already obsolete in view of the apparent ability of present-day power semiconductor technology to develop “ultimate” devices (see Fig. 1)."
"A recent survey by Scientific American reveals some dramatic trends in the top management structure of 600 of our largest nonfinancial corporations Education — particularly in the scientific and engineering disciplines — holds more weight today in the corporate industrial community than a wealthy and influential father. In short, the rags-to-riches theme of the popular dime-novel hero, as portrayed by Horatio Alger more than 60 years ago, is fast becoming a reality as an ever-increasing percentage of professional men from humble origins make their mark in the top slots of American industry."
"The Ninth Annual Rural Electrification Conference of the IEEE was held at the St. Francis Hotel, San Francisco, California, on May 24–25, 1965. The conference was sponsored by the Rural Electric Committee of the IEEE Industry and General Applications Group with the effective cooperation of San Francisco and Sacramento Sections. Total registration was 126. Ten papers were presented covering overhead and underground lines, motors, motor overcurrent protection, sponsored research, some specific uses of electricity on the farm, and foreign developments in rural electrification. Three presentations were not accompanied by papers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"All aspects of EHV transmission, from engineering studies to in-service performance under tornado winds, will be covered at the first EHV Transmission Conference on October 4–6 in Richmond, Va., at the Hotel John Marshall."
"Reports on recent government and legal policies in the engineering and scientific communities."
"“More Power Conversion Techniques Through Thyristors” is the theme of the IEEE Industrial Static Power Conversion Conference scheduled for November 1–3 at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in Philadelphia, Pa."
"The 7th Biennial Electric Heating Conference will take place September 28–29 in Cleveland at the Pick Carter Hotel."
"The International Space Electronics Symposium, scheduled for November 2 to 4 in Miami Beach at the Fontainebleau Hotel, will have a program of 12 technical sessions at which 60 selected papers will be presented. A panel discussion on “Future Space Programs” will highlight the technical program."
"The Canadian Electronics Conference and Exposition, scheduled to take place in Toronto, Ont., Canada, on October 4–6, will have as its theme “Canadian Electronics Span the World.” In conjunction with the conference, which will be held at the Automotive Building in Exhibition Park, more than 200 companies will display the latest products and developments in the field of electronics at the exposition."
"The Symposium on Microminiaturization in Automatic Control Equipment and in Digital Computers will be held in Munich, October 21–23. The symposium will be organized by the VDI/VDE-Fachgruppe Regelungstechnik in conjunction with the Nachrichtentechnische Gesellschaft im VDE, and will be sponsored jointly by the International Federation of Automatic Control and the International Federation for Information Processing."
"Harold E. Edgerton (F Harold E. Edgerton (F '46, L), professor of electrical measurement, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has been selected as the recipient of the 1965 Morris E. Leeds Award."
"The IEEE Nuclear Science Group is headed by a new slate of officers, elected by the Administrative Committee of the Group at a recent meeting in Ann Arbor."
"The 12th Annual Petroleum Industry Conference of IEEE will be held at the Sheraton-Lincoln Hotel in Houston on September 13 to 15."
"A.S. Jerrems (SM '54), technical director Airospace group, Hughes aircraft company has been elected chairman of the 1966 Winter Convention on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, to be held at the International Hotel, Los Angeles, on February 2–4."
"A comprehensive directory listing all IEEE members, with grade of membership, position title, and business address, will be made available toward the end of this year. The new directory is expected to contain more than 1000 pages and the information in it will be compiled using the IEEE's new computer."
"Papers are solicited in all the areas of applied magnetics and related magnetic phenomena for the Fourth International Conference on Magnetics (INTERMAG), which will be held on April 20–22 in Stuttgart, Germany, in Liederhalle."
"The International Conference on the Microwave Behavior of Ferrimagnetics and Plasmas will take place September 13–17 at the Institution of Electrical Engineers, London. The conference is sponsored jointly by the IEE Electronics Division, the Institution of Electronic and Radio Engineers, the Institute of Physics, the Physical Society, and IEEE."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Automatic Translation. A lively and searching dissertation on the problems of translation, and the frailties of both humans and machines in undertaking the task, appears in the June issue of the IEEE Transactions on Engineering Writing and Speech."
"The IEEE publications listed below are abstracted in this issue. The publications will be available in the near future. Information on prices may be obtained from IEEE, 345 East 47 Street, New York, N.Y. 10017. Please do not request copies of individual articles as they are not available."
"Translated issues of four Russian and two Japanese publications are published, under National Science Foundation grants, by the IEEE with the assistance of Scripta Technica, Inc. Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and available reviews of selected papers from recent translated issues appear below. Subscription rates and further information are available from IEEE Special Subscription Department,∗ 275 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016."
"The following listing includes titles of recently issued Special Publications available from IEEE for the prices quoted; M for members, N for nonmembers. Members may purchase one copy at the member rate; additional copies purchased are chargeable at the nonmember rate. Orders should be addressed to: The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., 345 East 47th Street, New York, N.Y. 10017. Shipment will be made promptly on receipt of order and payment. Publication titles shown in boldface are listed for the first time."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the inside back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the back cover of this issue of the magazine."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Paul M. Fitts died suddenly of a heart attack on Sunday, May 2, 1965. He was Professor of Psychology and Director of the Human Performance Center at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich."
"If a person could tell a computer exactly how he would evaluate every alternative that might arise, the machine could decide between any two alternatives as the person himself would. A fairly realistic experiment was done to test the feasibility of “interpolation between corners” as a psychophysical method for telling a machine how to compute the worths of multidimensional alternatives. The results were satisfactory. A statistic called fractional disagreement is proposed as the proper measure of the machine's success in mimicking the man's decisions. The concept of conflict between the dimensions of two alternatives is explained. The size of the conflict and the size of the difference between the worths that the machine ascribed to the alternatives were found to help to predict the correctness of the machine's decision. Conflict and difference in computed worth should, therefore, be useful in defining regions where the machine should give the decision back to the man and tell him to make the choice."
"Artificial intelligence can be approached through the fast-time evolution of finite-state machines. Random mutation of an arbitrary machine yields an “offspring.” Both machines are driven by the available history and evaluated in terms of the given goal, and the machine having the higher score is selected to serve as the new parent. Such fast-time mutation and selection is continued with real-time decisions being based on the logic of the surviving machine. Saving the best few machines increases the security against gross nonstationarity of the environment. The efficiency of the evolutionary program is improved by introducing a cost-for-complexity weighting on each machine. An ability to predict one's environment is prerequisite to purposeful behavior. With this in mind, IBM7094 experiments were conducted to examine evolutionary prediction. As expected, cyclic signals in various degrees of noise were soon characterized by the predictor-machines. The transition probabilities within the sequence of predictions of low-order Markov processes were in close correspondence with those of the environment. The evolutionary program was also required to predict the (4-symbol) output sequence of an arbitrary machine that was driven by random binary noise. After 160 predictions the percent correct reached 51.5. When the evolutionary program was also given, the input binary variable this score reached 80 percent, showing a rapid approach toward the 100 percent asymptote. In contrast, providing an uncorrelated binary variable degraded the performance to 40.5 percent by requiring an attempt to extract nonexistent information. A formal technique was devised which translates a predictor machine into a set of hypotheses concerning the logic of the environment."
"The effect on the performance of both simple and complex tasks of inserting transmission delay between the master and slave elements of a remote manipulator was studied. Most operators spontaneously adopted an effective “move-and-wait” strategy to cope with delay. A modification of a method proposed earlier enabled task-completion time to be accurately predicted from data taken when there was no delay. With the move-and-wait strategy, completion time depends on the length of sequences of open-loop movements. The number of such moves for positioning in one dimension as a function of task difficulty was found to agree with that predicted by a simple statistical model."
"The characteristics of switch actuators for communications equipment to be used in spacecraft are investigated. Subjects operated common switch actuators with space-suit gloves, under both atmospheric pressure and two-psi pressure differential. The independent variables studied were type of actuator, direction of operation, actuating torque, number of switch positions, effect of pressure, practice effect, and position on the panel. The dependent variables (criteria) were operating time, errors, and ranks. Switch actuators, in general, were operated more slowly and with more errors under simulated spacecraft conditions than under ordinary conditions. It was found that multiposition switches must have firm detent or interlocking features to prevent overshoot or accidental reversal. The best switch actuator under all circumstances combined is shown in Fig. 1."
"An application of continuous parameter optimization techniques to the synthesis of a model of human tracking behavior in a simple two-axis task is presented. Considerable emphasis is placed on the measurement of performance criteria for estimating the relative difficulty of single-axis and two-axis tasks as well as for evaluation of the validity of mathematical models. It is shown that the modeling technique can be used to yield a quantitative indication of the degree of cross coupling between axes introduced by the operator."
"A deterministic theory of characterization is presented which can be used to determine the time-varying dynamics of the human operator engaged in a tracking task. With this theory it is possible to obtain a time-varying impulse response function and a time-varying transfer function which represent the action of a human operator in an open- or closed-loop control system. No special form of input is required. The characterization, that may be in either real-time or nonreal-time, is based upon an exact theory of fixed-form optimization. A strongly convergent, definitely stable iteration technique can be used to realize the optimal characterization filter. The theory takes the time variation of the impulse response or transfer function into account, so that it is unnecessary to make the assumption of slowly varying dynamics. An uncertainty or compromise exists between the error, i.e., the error between the output of the human operator and that of the optimal characterizing filter, and the degree of variability of the optimal characterizing filter. This uncertainty is fundamental, and therefore cannot be circumvented. Although the theory has been verified by extensive experimental study, emphasis here is placed upon presentation of the theory."
"A compensatory tracking experiment was performed in which a subject received continuous feedback of his performance as measured by a scoring criterion. Several such criteria were investigated, each consisting of a weighted sum of mean-squared error and mean-squared stick movement. The subject changed his tracking behavior to suit the scoring criterion. These changes were manifested primarily as changes in the gain of the subject's describing function. It appears that a well-trained subject is good at optimizing his behavior to suit a scoring criterion, and that the design and feedback of such scoring criteria should receive greater consideration in tracking experiments."
"A sampled-data pursuit hand-tracking model for the human operator is developed and tested. The model embodies the simplest a priori assumptions about human tracking behavior. The analytical model is presented along with the experimentally determined frequency transfer characteristics of an analog computer built to have the same transfer function as the mathematical model. Generally good agreement was obtained in matching the model's frequency- and time-domain responses to those of a well-trained human tracking in pursuit fashion an input power spectrum flat to 0.64 c/s."
"The role of a human operator performing an information-processing task at a console is studied. Specifically explored are 1) the role of the console as a form of memory and 2) the ways in which this memory interacts with the human memory during a simple list-processing task. Times for various phases of the task are measured under four experimental conditions which systematically constrain the use of human or console memory. Three conceptual models are proposed: two characterize the structure of, and retrieval from, human and/or console memory when these are freely used together; the third characterizes the use of human memory when visual search of the console memory is very limited."
"L. M. Herman, G. N. Ornstein, and H. P. Bahrick, authors of the paper, “Operator Decision Performance Using Probabilistic Displays of Object Location,” which appeared on pp. 13–19 of the September, 1964, issue of these Transactions, have called the following to the attention of the Editor."
"While it is unusual that these pages be used simply to announce the publication of a government report, the potential importance of this document to engineers and psychologists interested in manual control systems warranted an exception. — Editor"
"The experiments reported by Miller1 may be correlated with the theoretical optimum system for a similar performance index and an input represented as “white” noise passed through a firstorder linear filter. This input representation is slightly different than the experimental input, but to the subject, both would probably appear much the same."
"Machines have already been made which learn to recognize small alphabets of fairly well-defined characters. The immediately obvious difference between such machines and human subjects is that the latter are able to deal with large alphabets in which each character undergoes a wide range of variations. Presumably as design, theory, and technology advance, systems will be built which can handle a steadily increasing range of alphabets. It is not by any means clear, however, whether existing machines, or for that matter conceivable developments of them, employ the same logical principles as the brain, or would behave identically assuming enough computer time and logical components available. In principle, then, the problem is whether the important differences between existing character recognition machines and the human brain are purely quantitative. Such a view, i.e., that differences are purely quantitative and that given enough time and space a working model of the brain could be built employing the same logical principles as are present in one or other existing pattern-recognition machines, is implicit in much present theorizing on these topics (Rosenblatt [3], Uhr and Vossler [6], and Taylor [4]) and it is of appreciable theoretical, and no doubt practical interest, to consider its validity. In this paper a behavioral test is proposed, which, if passed by human subjects, and failed by a machine would indicate something more than a quantitive difference in logical design between the brain and the character recognition machine."
"In order to aid human factors scientists to be aware of books of interest to them among the ever-increasing number being published, reviews of several current titles will be included in each issue of these Transactions. Comments and suggestions for this department are welcome, and contributed book reviews and recommendations of books for review (please include name, author, and publisher, if possible) are solicited. Address reviews and recommendations to B. H. Manheimer, 3470 Cannon Place, New York, N. Y. 10463."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"IT HAS BEEN some time since these TRANSACTIONS have concentrated on the short-distance air navigation system which is the standard over most of the world, and which is implemented in great concentration in the United States. Laying aside briefly the expected contempt for the familiar, these pages bring together a collection of papers dealing with the VOR/DME navigation system as it is today and as it might evolve."
"Electronic engineers enjoy devising new navigation systems, and fascinating improvements to existing ones, but they are generally far removed from the practical operating problems of aviation. They think the world will beat a path to their door to implement the most recent brainstorm. They are generally oblivious to the economic implications of their “little improvements.” They carefully avoid describing their systems' capabilities in ways which are understandable to the pilot and usable by the designers of routes and obstruction protection. In short, they don't give you a straight answer, they complicate everything. Even when they offer a practical improvement they qualify it with so many ifs and buts that the advantages become doubtful."
"This paper is intended to provide the reader with a quick review of the VOR/DME/TACAN system as it exists today. Thus it serves to introduce the series of more detailed articles that treat various specific aspects of the system. Comprehensive technical descriptions of the VOR and DME/TACAN systems were published some 10 years ago. This paper describes briefly the present VOR and DME/TACAN systems — both ground and airborne components — in terms of the changes since then. The paper concludes with a series of overall comments about the present VOR/DME/TACAN system and its potential."
"Frequency engineering, rather than signal level, determines the usable distance of most of the VORTAC and Instrument Landing Systems. This paper presents the parameters of the system in-being which are determined by the frequency engineer. The levels of radio frequency interference protection afforded the system determine the signal environment for the airborne equipment. It is essential that the airborne equipment be capable of operating within these parameters. Radio frequency interference generated within the system by co- and adjacent-channel frequency assignments is controlled by limiting the usable distance of facilities. Geographical separation criteria have been developed to assure that the specified desired/undesired signal ratios are not derogated within the designated service volumes. A theoretical study was completed by NBS Central Radio Propagation Laboratory. This study included on a statistical probability basis: long- and short-term propagation anomalies, attitude and lobing structure of the airborne antenna, lobing structure of the ground antenna, etc. Measurements of airborne receiver operation in the presence of interfering signals were used to set the allowable desired/undesired signal ratios. The geographical separation criteria then were determined from the prediction curves furnished by CRPL. The VORTAC and ILS system in-being has been engineered by use of these separation criteria. The calculations are empirically verified by special flight inspection aircraft prior to the commissioning of each facility."
"The Federal Aviation Agency has performance assurance programs, for the VOR/DME/VORTAC short-distance navigation system, designed to provide the highest practicable availability of service to the users consistent with economic constraints, and always within established standards of technical performance. During the calendar year 1963, the national average of facility availability was 98.7 per cent, Each facility is composed of high-quality equipment designed for 24-hour continuous operation. Each station is carefully calibrated through measurements of the signal characteristics made on the ground and confirmed by in-flight measurements, and is maintained by competent technicians. Continued performance is reported in a manner capable of analysis by statistical methods. A semiautomatic flight inspection system (SAFI) provides, on a continuing basis, an in-flight check of each station's performance. A recent study disclosed that certain preventive maintenance was contributing to increased outages and increased cost of maintaining the stations. The availability or service from the VOR and TACAN stations has shown that providing a standby transmitter with automatic changeover dues not in itself assure full availability of service to the users. Dual-transmitter VOR stations provide only about 23 hours per year additional time over single-transmitter stations. For the TACAN facilities the gain is of the order of 80 hours. Redundancy studies indicate that standby transmitters are not justified for all locations. Redundancy must be judiciously applied after careful consideration of the service availability requirements and appropriate cost benefit studies. The nonavailability of any station is compensated for by alternate routings to provide an overall system of navigation of very high dependability."
"The paper covers some of the most important advances in accuracy improvements of the VHF Omnirange made over the last 14 years. The development of the conventional VOR transmitting antenna is described. By means of a universal ground calibration technique the omnibearing error has been minimized and made essentially uniform from station to station at the VOR facilities. The problems of siting VOR stations are described. The developments of the Doppler VOR and the muitilobe precision VOR have been conducted to minimize siting errors. The area of tower VOR facilities is introduced as a possible solution to siting errors, particularly siting errors not amenable to Doppler VOR and muitilobe precision VOR techniques. The reduction of the parasitic currents of the Doppler VOR antenna system is outlined. Advances in the simulation of Doppler VOR antenna rotation results in less spurious sideband components. A short discussion is presented on single-sideband vs. double-sideband Doppler VOR operation."
"A new Doppler VOR system has been developed which provides site independence for users of conventional VOR receivers as well as increased accuracy when an airborne attachment is employed. Some essential features of a completed system are described. This system solves the siting problem in conventional receivers with present-day accuracy. Some basic receiver problems related to Doppler VOR engineering are discussed. Increased accuracy can be obtained with the new system when a conventional receiver is optimized for high instrumental accuracy. In another receiver improvement, a harmonic discriminator is used and offers the advantages of multilobe operation without any attachment to the ground station."
"An analysis of the performance of tower VOR in a forest area is made, and the mathematical relations between tower height, counterpoise dimensions and reflecting objects are presented. Various propagation phenomena affecting the performance of such tower VOR antennas and a review of the compromises required to achieve satisfactory radiation of signals to various parts of the vertical pattern characteristic are discussed. Practical results of tests on a tower VOR installation near Frankfurt aerodrome, Germany, are given, along with data on seasonal effects upon course interference."
"This paper discusses the techniques and system performance for several classes of VHF Omnidirectional Range (VOR). Single- and double-sideband Doppler VOR are compared with the alternating-sideband VORDAC proposed to EUROCONTROL. Results of the tests conducted on all three techniques are discussed along with the reasons why the U. S. favors a “full-time” double-sideband Doppler VOR. Results of recent tests of the Precision VOR, using the two-speed multilobe pattern combined with simultaneous operation of the Doppler VOR, are presented."
"Results of recording VOR course deviation indicator (CDI) position at a fixed point 40 miles from the transmitter are presented. Traces show CDI deflections are frequently greater than one degree; wave interference phenomena and temperature inversion effects are suggested as possible causes for two of four general types of deviations identified (impulse and drift). Many significant CDI deviations for which no causes have been identified have been observed over a nine-month period."
"Today's DME is defined and its major characteristics listed. Its relationship to TACAN and its current state of implementation are reviewed; 10,000 airborne DME sets have been produced in the last three years. Photographs and major characteristics are given of current airline equipment made by two major manufacturers, general aviation equipment made by a third manufacturer, and of a typical ground transponder. The bulk of the text is devoted to outlines of several new features which can be applied, independently of each other, within present system specifications. For airborne equipment, these include: accuracy of ±180 feet, search time of 0.2 second, self-check, elimination of moving parts, variable transmitter power and pictorial display. For ground equipment, the improvements reviewed include: increased accuracy during variation of interrogation level, elimination of steady-state error, advantages of high-gain antennas and the tailoring of transponder parameters to the expected traffic, an example being given of a transponder weighing less than eight pounds yet capable of serving light traffic at long ranges. It is concluded that, while increased performance is immediately available within present specifications, greater world-wide implementation could occur if certain system specifications were relaxed."
"DME accuracy is improved greatly by using pulses having a short rise-time (0.2 μs) instead of the 2.5 μs TACAN pulses. The greatest improvement is in the reduction of errors caused by pulse-distorting echoes and by the large variation (80 dB) in the amplitude of interrogations from near and far aircraft. All existing ground transponders are equipped with Ferris discriminators which will not answer interrogations from adjacent channels and therefore will not supply erroneous distance data. Such discriminators can be improved to pass sharply rising pulses without integration while maintaining their near-absolute selectivity. This paper describes characteristics of ground and airborne DME, using sharply rising pulses, which provide very high accuracy at short ranges, especially in collaboration with ILS. The equipment operates within the TACAN-VORTAC system in that “short rise-time” airborne DME is used to interrogate existing en route VORTAG beacons, and existing airborne DME can obtain distance information from the “short rise-time” beacons although with less accuracy than “short rise-time” interrogators. Existing airborne and ground DME were modified to emit and use short rise-time pulses and were flight-tested. Repeated passes over a measured course provided an accuracy of ±85 feet at three miles."
"Heretofore DME and TACAN equipments have depended on slow-moving analog-type search gates to look for a reply to an interrogation. The slow-moving gate was necessary to distinguish the desired reply from among many other squitter pulses or replies meant for other aircraft. This resulted in a variety of long search times varying from 15 to 30 seconds, depending on maximum range, interrogation rate and other factors. This paper describes a new digital ranging technique in which the search gate moves outward from zero miles in discrete large steps, looking for the reply only in those places where it is possible for it to be, rather than wasting time in a continuous search which includes many places where the reply can't be. This results in search times of a fraction of a second and in effect gives the pilot the ability to obtain his range instantaneously."
"This paper describes the characteristics of the common system navigational aids, VOR and DME, as an area navigation system, and discusses methods for using them other than by flying along radials to or from the station. The use of pictorial displays and course line computers, either separtely or in combination, to achieve area navigation capability is distinctly possible. The choice of pictorial display or of the computer or of both will be made on considerations other than accuracy. Justification will have to be based on operational benefits such as least time and distance tracks, altitude availability or on air traffic control benefits. Cockpit space and chart provisioning are major problems in connection with pictorial displays, but can be overcome if cost benefits are sufficient. Flight evaluation in a live-traffic environment of the Bendix-modified Alternate Track VORTAC Computer in a united Air Lines DC-8F Cargoliner is described. Modification consisted of an additional function permitting operation parallel to radiais, in addition to phantom station mode of operation. Results were promising and indicate the track-keeping ability of a parallel course computer is consistent with existing airway criteria with little increase in pilot workload. Significant increases in traffic capacity of the existing airway system is possible with no required increase in number of VOR/DME facilities presently available."
"Addition of a quadrature cancellation channel to TACAN-DME pulse transmitters is proposed as a means of removing most of the incidental FM in the outputs of these transmitters. Such a scheme should reduce spurious radiation well below present levels, and eliminate bulky, double-tuned cavities from the transmitter output stage."
"The following abstracts are from papers published in the October, 1964, issue of The Journal of the Institute of Navigation (London). Single copies of the Journal may be obtained for 20 shillings from John Murray (Publishers) Ltd., 50 Albemarle St., London W1, England. Membership inquiries may be addressed to the Institute of Navigation, The Royal Geographic Society, 1 Kensington Gore, London SW7, England."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"On pages 18 to 26 we print “Symbols for Units,” IEEE Standard No. 260, with the hope that its publication here, in addition to its appearance in IEEE Standard form, will help bring its contents to the attention of everyone concerned with the preparation and publication of engineering and scientific materials. It became effective January 15, 1965."
"Benjamin Franklin acquired the qualities of style that have given him the title “America's first great technical writer” through self-study of the style of others, notably Addison. Franklin rewrote Addison's Spectator papers from notes, then compared his imitation with the original to see where he had failed to be as concise and readable. Other great writers have testified to the efficacy of this kind of imitation as an exercise in style improvement, and the technical writer of today will find it still one of the best ways to attain clarity and fullness of expression."
"The translation of technical subject matter demands an extensive knowledge of both languages and a considerable acquaintance with the subject. A computer system to give high-quality translations of serious subjects, spoken or written, would be most useful, but neither the cerebral logic used in translation nor the semantic structure of language itself is yet understood. The memory storage required for machine translation may not be a serious obstacle, but the linguistic task of quantifying the effects of syntax and context upon meaning may prove to be insurmountable."
"Assistance and guidance to the engineering author should be provided by his firm through a well-organized professional papers routine administered by a group which reviews papers, secures approvals for publication, and advises the author on both the technical and literary-graphics aspects of presentation or publication. Such a program can pay off in better talks and papers, resulting in good publicity for the firm as well as providing an incentive for potential authors."
"The Institute wishes to acknowledge its indebtedness to those who have so freely given of their time and knowledge, and have conducted experimental work on which many of the IEEE publications are based."
"This paper describes a course devised to assist engineers in writing for publication. It was developed by the author after studying the attitudes that deter many engineers from writing. The course, designed to overcome these negative attitudes, has been successful as evidenced by the fact all graduates of the class have had articles accepted for publication or symposia presentation."
"Formulas for engineering writing developed since World War II are examined. It is shown that these can be seen as “initial conditions” for a set of “curves” that can be “extrapolated” to indicate a trend toward automation. A plan is presented for the conversion of today's semi-automated engineering writers into the “writer-programmers” required for the 1970-and-beyond time frame."
"Operations Research is, first, a linguistic decision-making process, and, second, a linguistic operational process. 1 a) The first step in the decision-making process is the analysis of the problematical state of affairs. To analyze the undesirable status quo, it is necessary to understand how it got that way. The analysis takes the form, therefore, of a causal relationship: bona fide in the exact sciences, imputed in the behaviorial sciences. 1 b) The next step in the decision-making process is the development of a means-end hypothesis that is calculated to reach a goal-state. Where human beings are involved, the means-end hypothesis cannot be verified either before or after the fact. 2) The use of words by which to effect operations that are calculated to reach a goal-state may be referred to as a feedback loop that creates and controls change in the interest of a predetermined purpose. If Operations Research is a refined decision-making process, and, if the operational process rests on a linguistic model, Operations Research should provide built-in corrective measures to invest performance with uncertainty tolerance."
"There is much to be gained from the seminars and conferences on technical communications offered every summer by several universities and professional societies. The seventh annual course and workshop held at Colorado State University last July certainly ranks high among the various programs that have been offered over the years and has made a distinguished contribution to the science and art of communication."
"We have measured the cross section for backscattering of laser beams from rough aluminum surfaces and a magnesium oxide slab. These surfaces were specially prepared and their statistical properties were measured. The laser wavelengths were λ &equal; 0.63, 1.15, and 3.39μ, and both parallel and perpendicular polarizations were used. The angle of incidence was varied from 0° to 89°. In these experiments the ratio of the surface rms height h (from the mean surface) to the wavelength λ is larger than 1/4; for such surfaces the cross section for backscatter at normal incidence is inversely proportional to the square of the rms surface slope, h/l, and is independent of wavelength. At large angles of incidence the cross section increases with increasing slope and also with increasing h/λ, approaching an upper limit which appears to be predicted by a Lambert scattering law. The angular dependence of the cross section differs for the two polarizations; at grazing incidence the cross section is larger for the parallel polarization. The published characteristics of the angular dependence of the cross section of microwave backscattering from the sea and the moon are in remarkable agreement with the backscattering cross section obtained from the various randomly-rough laboratory prepared surfaces at all angles of incidence. Comparison of the laboratory results with published moon data yields for the moon surface an rms height of 40 ± 10 cm, a mean correlation distance or mean scale size of 2.8 ± 0.7 meters,"
"The recent interest in the use of pulse code modulation (PCM) for the transmission of speech has made it desirable to determine the effects of digital line errors on certain codes. Improved performance for low-level talkers has been generally obtained by the use of instantaneous compressors and expandors (compandors) in order to avoid using a large number of digits in the PCM coder-decoder (codec). A comparison of the effects of digital errors for a logarithmically compandored system transmitting speech is made on the basis of mean square distortion power and the distribution of error magnitude. Results are obtained for the binary, Gray (reflected binary), and folded binary codes. The results indicate that the binary and Gray codes have a “click” as well as a “noise” component of distortion while the folded binary code produces only noise at low-talker levels. “Clicks” have been defined as errors which have amplitudes greater than half the full range amplitude; the remaining errors are considered “noise”. For the folded binary code, the most significant digit gives polarity information; the remaining digits represent the signal magnitude in binary code."
"Two algorithms for solving the (symmetric distance) traveling salesman problem have been programmed for a high-speed digital computer. The first produces guaranteed optimal solution for problems involving no more than 13 cities; the time required (IBM 7094 II) varies from 60 milliseconds for a 9-city problem to 1.75 seconds for a 13-city problem. The second algorithm produces precisely characterized, locally optimal solutions for large problems (up to 145 cities) in an extremely short time and is based on a general heuristic approach believed to be of general applicability to various optimization problems. The average time required to obtain a locally optimal solution is under 30n3 microseconds where n is the number of cities involved. Repeated runs on a problem from random initial tours result in a high probability of finding the optimal solution among the locally optimal solutions obtained. For large problems where many locally optimal solutions have to be obtained in order to be reasonably assured of having the optimal solution, an efficient reduction scheme is incorporated in the program to reduce the total computation time by a substantial amount."
"Beginning with the familiar ideas of time-congestion and call-congestion for a full access trunk-group, this paper considers the relations between various measures of congestion for networks of more general structure. The discussion is based on a simple heuristic model which makes the definitions of time- and call-congestion directly comparable. This model leads to a two-dimensional classification of measures of congestion, which should be useful in treating types of systems not mentioned here. Three importan papers in the literature are analyzed in terms of the proposed classification"
"The 100a protection switching system is intended to ensure continuity of service in TD Microwave Radio Relay Systems by transferring service from a failed working channel to a standby protection channel. Switching is done at IF on a switching section basis. A switching section may contain up to ten radio repeater stations, with the average section containing three to four repeaters. A fully equipped 100A system provides means to replace any one of ten regular channels with either of two protection channels. Two regular channels may be switched simultaneously to the two protection channels. The circuit interruption due to a fade initiated or a maintenance switch is less than 10 microseconds. The interruption due to an equipment failure is less than 35 milliseconds, a time short enough to prevent false operations in the telephone switching plant. The control information necessary to sequence the operation of the switches at the transmitting and receiving ends of the switching section consists of coded voice-frequency tones. These may be transmitted over any reliable voice-frequency facility having suitable transmission and delay characteristics. All of the active devices in the system are solid state. The system requires sources of both +24 and −24 volt power."
"Certain radars, sonars, and other sampling instruments periodically measure a variable but can measure accurately only if prediction equations provide the instrument with an accurate prediction of the next value of this variable. For these instruments, it is appropriate to define reliability as the probability that the error in this prediction does not exceed some limit. In choosing the form and parameters of the prediction equations, it is reasonable to attempt to maximize this reliability. Assumptions that the prediction equations utilize linear error measurements, are recursive, and provide least-squares smoothing with an exponential weighting function establish a realistic basis for calculating the reliability. The first through the third orders of these equations predict the variable as reliably as possible in the presence of large initial errors in the variable and its velocity, provided that the smoothing interval of the prediction equations is sufficiently short. The dynamic error component of the prediction error of these equations is proportional to a smoothed version of the qth time-derivative of the variable, where q is the order of the prediction equations. The assumption that the measurement errors are uncorrelated and stationary makes it possible to calculate the standard deviation of the random component of the prediction error. On the assumption that the random component of the prediction error has a normal (or Gaussian) probability distribution, there exists a safety factor which is monotonically related to the reliability. The choice of the smoothing interval of the prediction equations which maximizes this safety factor can be found, which in turn permits the optimum safety factor to be calculated. The ratio of pairs of these optimum safety factors determines which order"
"The optimum signal and receiving filters for a data transmission system with a fixed channel and detection process are found. The criteria of optimality are: (i) the minimization of mean square error between the input multilevel data signal and the output to the decision threshold and (ii) the minimization of noise power output with no intersymbol interference. Explicit frequency characteristics are obtained for the separate and joint signal and receiver optimization problems. For the joint problem it is seen that some freedom exists in assigning phases to the transmitter and receiver. In addition, explicit equations are obtained for the output signal-to-noise ratio for the problems considered. The optimization procedures are carried out in detail in some examples. In comparing binary and correlative multilevel signalling (e.g., duobinary), it is seen that there may be channels for which the optimum multilevel system is superior to the optimum binary system."
"The conservation equation for electrons in a laminar or turbulent flow has been used to determine a criterion for breakdown. The results can be used to define a characteristic length, L., and time, t., which determine the affects of the flow on the power required to break down the gas. The theory has been compared to the experimental results of Buchsbaum and Cottingham in hydrogen with reasonable agreement in the laminar region. In the presence of turbulence, the results will depend on the velocity dependence of the turbulent diffusion coefficient for the electrons."
"Forced transient motions of peripherally supported, circular, elastic plates are analyzed according to the classical plate theory. The Green's function for the plate is developed and used to construct solutions for concentrated impulsive loadings, suddenly applied loadings, and moving pressure-wave loadings. The boundary of the plate is considered to be elastically built-in in a manner that prevents transverse edge motion and provides a restoring edge moment linearly related to edge rotation. Thus, limiting cases include a clamped plate and a simply supported plate. Numerical results are included to illustrate the influence of structural and loading parameters on the dynamic response of the plate."
"Our method of computing lattice sums1 is carried through the final stage of numerical computation. We calculate the expansion coefficients of the crystal potential, evaluated at each inequivalent site of a number of cubic structures. Some of the structures chosen are simple, to afford comparison with previous calculations. Many, however, are too complex to be amenable to other methods, and our results are the first reported. The sequence of computer programs, timing, and accuracy are discussed."
"This brief reports on an experimental test of a hologram technique that is capable of projecting ulldistorted images through inhomogeneous media. Coherent laser light and the hologram order that produces a conjugate image arc used. The technique may be of in terest in controlling wave transmission through inhomogeneous media for communication purposes, and it allows the scrambling or encrypting of texts, drawings, and similar messages for private communication."
"Distortion in transmission channels causes intersymbol interference in digital communication systems. This distortion may be partially corrected at the receiver through the use of a tapped delay line having adjustable tap gain settings (transversal filter), The problem of minimizing distortion with a finite-length transversal filter is examined. In the region of small initial channel distortion where most existing systems operate, the best tap gain settings satisfy a set of simultaneous linear equations. For larger initial distortion, iterative techniques are required to find best gain settings. The distortion is shown to be a convex function of the tap gains, so mathematical programming techniques may be employed for optimization. The practical problem is that of evolving a logical strategy whereby the tap gains of the transversal filter may be set to optimum values. An easily implemented system for automatic equalization is described which makes use of a steepest-descent technique of minimization. The equalizer is automatically set prior to data transmission in a training period during which a series of test pulses is transmitted. Only polarity information is required, so digital logic may be used in the equalizer. For application to high-speed data transmission, great accuracies are required for the tap gain settings. Thus the problem of noise in the channel during equalization is quite important. The final error due to noise and channel distortion and the equalizer settling time are discussed and evaluated. Finally, the effect of a transversal filter equalizer in terms of the system frequency-domain characteristics is considered."
"Feedback systems which achieve subharmonic response by use of power-law nonlinearities and trigonometric identities are described, and the problem of “modes,” i.e., multiple responses to the same excitation, in some of these systems is discussed. It is shown, by a thorough discussion of an example, that suitable choices of a trigonometric identity and a loop filter can be made which lead to locally asymptotically stable subharmonic orbits. An application to FM demodulation is suggested: the subharmonic modes can be used to reduce the index of an input wide-index wave so that a narrower IF filter than for conventional FM suffices, as in the FM demodulator with feedback, but without a controlled oscillator or even a mixer."
"The technique now regularly in use for the generation of orbital elements for the TELSTAR communications satellites is described using angle-only and/or angle-range data versus time as input information. It is found that secular perturbation considerations are sufficient to permit trajectory prediction with pointing errors of about 0.05° over 100 orbits from a single set of elements. Modified orbital elements are chosen as the orbit description, since they explicitly express the secular rates and thereby simplify and reduce the cost of drive tape generations for the Andover ground station. The rates are derived both from perturbation theory and from direct measurement. The size and shape accuracy of the predicted orbit ellipse is improved by statistical means using trajectory data from a number of passes over a particular ground station. This permits better round-the-world predictions. Finally the computer-operator ensemble presently used for generating the orbits of the TELSTAR satellites is described."
"A general analysis of varactor frequency multipliers is given. It applies to multipliers with any rational ratio of output to input frequency, any idler configuration, and any voltage-charge relationship for the diode. A computer program was written for evaluating the results up to a ×10 multiplier. Results are given for the doubter, 1-2-3 tripler, 1-2-4 quadrupler, 1-2-3-4 quadrupler, 1-2-4-5 quintupler, 1-2-4-6 sextupler, and 1-2-4-8 octupler, for various junctions, under conditions of nominal drive as well as of overdriving. Some higher-order multipliers without idlers, which use a high-nonlinearity diode, were computed. Some results are given for a model with varying series resistance."
"In Section I it is demonstrated that the amplitude of the light deflected or scattered by an advancing sinusoidal acoustic wave, as a function of the angle between the direction of light propagation and the acoustic wavefront, is proportional to the Fourier transform of the amplitude distribution of the acoustic wave in the plane of the wavefront. Studying the angular dependence of the optical-acoustic interaction accurately and directly determines the angular distribution or far-field diffraction pattern of the acoustic beam and incidentally determines the angular response of the acoustic transducer producing the beam. The angular resolution equals the angular spread in the probing light beam. Experiments illustrating and verifying the technique are described. In Section II the effect of volume acoustic loss is determined. It is shown that loss does not change the considerations of Section I apart from a slight reduction in angular resolution unless the decay distance is comparable to the acoustic wavelength. The loss parameter does introduce a maximum usable acoustic beam width for the interaction (coherence width). In addition, techniques for determining the acoustic loss are described. Particular attention is given to the near- and far-field energy distribution of the scattered light beam. It is shown that the far-field distribution is Lorentzian only under special circumstances. Consideration is given to probing beams with rectangular and Gaussian intensity distributions. Edge effects are taken into account, and it is shown that these can make important contributions to the line shape as well as lead to errors in the interpretation of phonon lifetimes from scattering experiments. Experiments confirming the results are described."
"A precise theory of the simultaneous meaSllrement of a pair of conjugate observables is necessary for obtaining the classical limit from the quantum theory, for determining the limitations of coherent quantum mechanical amplifiers, etc. The uncertainty principle, of course, does not directly address this problem, since it is a statement about the variances of two hypothetical ideal measurements. We will adopt the approach that there exist instantaneous inexplicable ideal measurements of a single observable. Just as von Neumann1 uses an ideal measurements together with all interaction to explain an indirect observation, we use ideal measurements together with iuteractions to explain the simultaneous measurements of an observable and its conjugate."
"The 2a line concentrator is a supplement to existing switching systems and provides concentration of line circuits up to a range of 1000 miles. It has been designed to accomplish this range extension while requiring a short (150–200 milliseconds) concentrator work time. An over-all description and a discussion of the initial application are presented."
"The T1 carrier repeatered line is the Bell System's first high-speed digital transmission facility. Although developed primarily for the transmission of analog information in the form of processed voice frequency signals, its potential use as a short-haul data facility has stimulated considerable interest and study. T1 carrier data terminal designs are described for various general types of applications, and consideration is given to certain problems concerning the transmission of data-type signals over the repeatered lines. The applicability of the present design is developed with relation to the short-haul plant."
"This article describes an algorithm for solving electrical networks which consist of linear and nonlinear resistors and independent sources, and where the characteristics of each of the resistors is described by a function Gk(.), i &equal; Gk(v), where Gk(.) is continuous, monotonically increasing, piece-wise linear, and one-to-one from (− ∞, ∞) onto (− ∞, ∞), and where k is an index which spans all the resistors in the network. The solution is found by solving successively equivalent linear networks which represent the nonlinear network locally and which correspond to a “solution curve.” Essential to the efficiency of the computation process is the method of modifying matrices which enables the process to find the inverse of a conductance matrix by modifying another matrix rather than by matrix inversion. The algorithm provides a fast computation method for both of the following two cases: (1.) the network contains both linear and nonlinear resistors and (2.) the sources are functions of time and the solution is required for successive values of time. In the latter case the algorithm computes each solution from the previous one rather than solving each case independently."
"The problem of optimum reception of binary sure and Gaussian signals is to specify, in terms of the received waveform, a scheme for deciding between two alternative mean and covariance functions with minimum error probability. In the context of a general treatment of the problem, this article presents a solution which is both mathematically rigorous and convenient for physical application. The optimum decision scheme obtained consists in comparing, with a predetermined threshold c, the sum of a linear and a quadratic form in the received waveform x(t); namely, choose m0(t) and r0(s,t) if $2\\int x(t) g (t)\\ dt + \\int \\int [x (s) - m_1 (s)] h(s,t) [x (t) - m_1 (t)]\\ ds\\ dt \\lt; c,$ choose m1(t) and r1(s,t) if otherwise, where m0(t), m1(t), r0(s,t) and r1(s,t) are the two mean and covariance functions, and g(t) is the square-integrable solution of $\\int r_0 (s,t) g (s)\\ ds = m_1 (t) - m_0 (t),$ while h(s,t) is the symmetric and square-integrable solution of $\\int \\int r_0 (s,u) h (u,v) r_1 (v,t)\\ du\\ dv = r_1 (s,t) - r_0 (s,t).$ Note that under the assumption of zero mean functions, i.e., m0(t) &equal; m1(t) &equal; 0, the above result is reduced to the one in a previous article by this author, while with the assumption of identical covariance functions, i.e., r0(s,t) &equal; r1(s,t), it is reduced to the classical result essentially obtained by Grenander. Sections I and II introduce the problem and summarize the main results with certain pertinent remarks, while a detailed mathematical treatment is given in Section III. Although Appendices A–D are not directly required for solution of the problem, they are added to provide a tutorial background for the results on equivalance and singularity of two Gaussian measures obtained by Grenander, Root and Pitcher as well as some generalization of their results."
"Angular scatter measurements obtained by illuminating Teflon and various metallic surfaces at normal incidence with a 0.63μ, laser beam are discussed. A method for measuring the scatter in the specular direction is also presented. The measured data are found to be in good agreement with models, which take into account specular reflection, scatter, and absorption. The surfaces investigated were aluminum, steel, brass, first surface aluminized mirror, and aluminized roughened glass surfaces."
"This paper discusses the expected characteristics of balanced transistor amplifiers with symmetrical directional couplers. Provided that pairs of transistors with similar characteristics can be selected from a given distribution, the input and output matches obtained with the balanced configuration are satisfactory over a ±10 per cent bandwidth with simple one-section lumped-constant LC directional couplers and over a ±40 per cent bandwidth (1.2 octaves) with one section distributed λ/4 couplers. For single-stage amplifiers, the decrease in gain is less than 0.1 db and the phase nonlinearities introduced by the couplers are about ±0.16° and ±0.6°, respectively, over the same bandwidths. The requirements on the terminations which are connected to the couplers to absorb the transistor reflections are not stringent: VSWR's less than 1.4 should be acceptable. The noise measure of balanced amplifiers is calculated to be a weighted average of the noise measures of the two component amplifiers, plus a small term which vanishes when the couplers have 3-db coupling and the component amplifiers have identical gains. Gain compression takes place at a 3-db higher signal level compared with conventional single-ended designs, and the expected improvement in the third-order intermodulation is 9 db on the average. In the final section, the cascade connection of identical balanced amplifiers is discussed. With typical microwave transistors, the input and output return losses for a multistage amplifier should be about 4.5 db worse than those for the individual single-stage amplifiers of which it is composed. The gain ripple introduced by the interactions between stages is also investigated in detail."
"The transmission of digital data over telephone channels has been considered previously in the literature, and the effects of Gaussian noise have been analyzed. With experience, however, it has become apparent that while a background of Gaussian noise is present, the limiting noise is not Gaussian but impulsive in nature. It consists of bursts of high amplitude which occur at random considerably more often than is predicted by the rms value of the Gaussian background noise. Measurements of the statistics of this noise have been initiated, and some results have been reported. In this paper, a model for the noise is constructed to be reasonably consistent with these measurements without becoming too complex to be handled analytically. Various modulation systems are analyzed to determine their performance in such a noise environment. Conditional error rates, in terms of the average number of bit errors per noise burst, are determined as functions of a convenient signal-to-noise ratio which is defined. The systems are ranked as to their performance in such a noise environment, and the ranking is found to be the same as that for Gaussian noise. The improvement to be gained by employing complementary delay networks is investigated. Networks with linear and sinusoidal delay characteristics are considered."
"Presented here are tables of values of Xn and λn, quantities defined by the eigenvalue problems $(1-x^2)\\psi_n\\Prime - 2x\\psi_n\\prime + (x_n - c^2x^2)\\psi_n =0$ and $\\lambda-n \\psi_n (x) = \\int_{-1}^1 {sin c(x-y)\\over \\pi(x-y)} \\psi-n(y) dy.$ In addition, some approximations for these quantities are given and evaluated."
"The problem of approximating a band-limited function, H(t), by a sum of cosines arises in the design of phased array antennas. Three methods of synthesis are presented for establishing such designs. Error formulae are deduced for each method, including a new error formula for Tchebycheff quadrature. The existence of grating lobes is proved, and lower bounds for their location are developed."
"Statistical properties are derived for mathematical models of the multipath fading encountered in mobile radio. These properties are used to compare some receiving systems which use several antennas to combat fading. Particular attention is given to a system of J. R. Pierce which has electric and magnetic dipole antennas and computes the electromagnetic energy density at a point. The statistical properties considered here include energy density distribution functions, correlation coefficients, and the power spectrum of the energy density observed at a moving point."
"Let B denote a Banach space over the real or complex field F. Let θ(B) denote the set of (not necessarily linear) operators that map B into itself, with I the identity operator, and let $\\Vert T \\Vert$ denote the “Lipshitz norm” of T for all T ε θ(B)"
"A study is made of certain properties of speech which are concerned with determining the presence of speech on a telephone circuit. A speech detector is constructed to yield an output of spurts and gaps, corresponding to the presence or absence of energy above a threshold. A computer program then attempts to correct this pattern for spurious noise operation and for gaps due to stop consonants, eventually yielding a pattern of talkspurts and pauses. Data reported here include the distributions of the spurts and gaps resulting from the detector as well as the distributions of talkspurts and pauses from the computer program. Studied here are the influence on these distributions of detector threshold variations as well as of parameter variations within the computer program. The gaps occurring within talkspurts retain their distribution over a range of thresholds, but the spurts do not. It appears that 200 msec forms a boundary between intersyllabic gaps and listener-detected pauses. The detection technique developed here is considered to be an improvement over conventional methods, but still yields data whose significance is uncertain. It may be that a simple automatic speech detecting technique using fixed parameters is inadequate for some purposes."
"This paper deals with adaptive transmitting arrays in which the excitations of the elements are varied in response to a pilot field incident on the array from a distant source. General theorems, some quite simple, are obtained relating to optimal power transfer from an adaptive array in an arbitrary reciprocal medium to either a single receiver or a receiving array. We assume first that the amplitudes and phases of the transmitting elements are separately adjustable, and afterward that only the phases are adjustable. The results involve in particular the matrix which represents the pilot fields produced at the elements of the transmitting array by currents at the locations of the receiving elements. In some important special cases, optimal power transfer results from making the phase of each transmitting element equal to the negative of the phase of the pilot field at that element. We also consider the dynamic behavior of two adaptive arrays which simultaneously transmit and receive, the phases on transmission being made equal to the negatives of the received phases. Analysis of an idealized model indicates that the arrays will reach a unique steady state which is in practical cases identical with or very close to the condition for optimal power transfer. Some numerical simulations of 2- and 3-element interacting arrays have been made to show how such arrays approach an essentially steady state under moderately realistic assumptions."
"Optimum ranges of the inertia ratios, the spring constants, and the damping constants have been obtained for the design of a gravitationally oriented two-body satellite with satisfactory over-all damping performance. In the case of viscous damping, optimum damping constants can be simply chosen from diagrams of complex root loci. It is found impossible to convert the optimum viscous damping constants into optimum magnetic hysteresis damping constants, and the latter have to be obtained from computer solutions. The result of this optimization work makes possible a better design of the satellite with lighter attitude control weight, shorter rod lengths, and smaller earth-pointing error than previously reported in articles in the Bell System Technical Journal."
"In this paper the general integral equations governing the mode spectra of optical masers are investigated from a point-of-view based upon certain theoretical results for Hölder continuous kernels. Using an estimation originally performed by Fredholm, it is proved that the homogeneous integral equation $\\varphi(x) = \\lambda \\int_{a}^{b}K(x,y) \\varphi(y) dy$ has at least one eigenvalue for Hölder continuous kemels K with exponent $a \\gt {1 \\over 2}$ and with nonvanishing trace. All the integral equations which have been treated in laser theory s0 far can be “factored” into one-dimensional equations with continuously differentiable kernels, to which this result applies directly. Although in practice the vanishing of the trace is the exception rather than the rule, the later sections of this paper are devoted to demonstrations of the nonvanishing character of the trace nf several of the common “laser kernels” associaled with practical reflector configurtions. These results provide in almost all cases the first rigorous proofs of the existence of eigenvalues and eigenfunctions for the integral equations of the optical maser."
"The error statistics from data-transmission field tests on the telephone network may be compactly represented by about one dozen parameters. These relate to a model of the telephone network in which there are three distinct channels. The errors in binary data on each channel are produced by a renewal process in which a bit-error is a renewal event. The mixture of three such channels allows a close fit to the error statistics for a large range of block lengths. It is not implied that the errors on the telephone network are actually produced by such processes, but merely that they may be conveniently and compactly represented by them. Use of this model simplifies the analysis of error-control systems and the determination of error rates for error-control codes. In this paper the model is applied to study the effect that interleaving (time division multiplexing) has on the effectiveness of error-correcting codes."
"Detection of binary FM by multiplication of the received signal by itself delayed is analyzed. Error rates vs signal-to-noise ratio for additive Gaussian noise are calculated as a function of sampling time, differential delay at the receiver, and delay distortion in the channel. It is found that the differential detector can give better performance than the more conventional zero-crossing counter or frequency discriminator under conditions of severe delay distortion in the channel."
"This article considers the question of existence and uniqueness of the response of nonlinear time-varying RLC networks driven by independent voltage and current sources. It is proved that under certain conditions the response exists, is unique, and is defined by a set of ordinary differential equations satisfying some Lipschitz conditions. These conditions are of two types: (1) the network elements must have characteristics which satisfy suitable Lipschitz conditions and (2) the network must satisfy certain topological conditions. It should be noted that elements with nonmonotonic characteristics are allowed and that the element characteristics need to be continuous but not differentiable."
"Occasionally encountered III the calculation of power spectra are limits of the form1"
"This paper is concerned with phase contrast in electron images with emphasis on a periodic scattering object. The Kirchoff diffraction or imaging integral over the back focal plane is formulated in terms of the amplitude and phases of the scattered wave, using coordinates adapted to numerical methods. The integral was programmed for evaluation on the IBM 7090 and the image plane amplitude displayed on a microfilm plotter. The effects of spherical aberration, aperture size, defocus and thermal motion of the scattering atoms on image contrast of atom positions for chains of nickel and of gold atoms were investigated for separations of 2 Å and 8 Å. In the range of atomic separations, spherical aberration is the most destructive single factor in the loss of phase contrast. It appears that an objective lens with a spherical aberration coefficient less than 0.2 mm will be necessary if phase contrast images of atom locations are to be attained. In addition, a practical quarter-wave phase plate is essential for the objective lens system and will be much more effective than defocus contrast. Even so the contrast is marginal for photographic recording except for the case of a thin perfect crystal. Amplitude contrast is very small for atom positions and should be minimized by the use of a large objective aperture. Phase contrast should improve with increasing accelerating potentials due to reduced inelastic cross sections compensating the loss in elastic contrast near 2 × 105 volts."
"This paper considers the design of binary bandlimited signals for transmission over a channel with additive white Gaussian noise, the signals to be received by a memoryless correlation detector. A signal waveform is found which allows communication at the Nyquist rate without intersymbol interference and with 1.3 db degradation compared to an optimum communication system. Other waveforms, consisting of the sum of a few prolate spheroidal functions, are also investigated."
"The performance of a four-phase data system over delay- and attenuation-distorted transmission lines in the presence of impulse noise has been simulated on a digital computer previously. This paper describes an extension of that simulation to performance with the additional degradation of additive Gaussian noise. Results are presented for Gaussian noise alone in terms of absolute error rate, and for Gaussian plus impulse noise in terms of conditional error rate given the occurrence of an impulse. Some conclusions on the limiting effects in various situations are given."
"Atomic hydrogen is a powerful chemical reducing agent. It may be used to perform reductions at lower temperatures than those achieved in molecular hydrogen, and since it is electrically neutral it is not subject to shielding effects. Because of the contradictory results reported in the literature, an investigation was undertaken to determine optimum ways to produce and transfer atomic species. It is concluded that electrodeless discharge is the most reliable way of production, and that, although Teflon and phosphoric acid coated glass have very low catalytic activities toward recombination, Pyrex and quartz are satisfactory container materials. Reduction temperatures in both molecular and atomic hydrogen were established for a variety of oxides, and the latter were found to be substantially lower. Finally, the advantages and limitations of atomic hydrogen as a reducing agent are considered."
"A helix circular waveguide 380 feet long has been deformed into three different curves. The added mode conversion loss for a TE01 signal mode has been measured and calculated theoretically, with good agreement. For a curve with 30-inch deflection over a distance of 100 feet, peak-to-valley (200-ft period), the measured added loss at 55.5 kmc was 0.23 db/mile, the calculated 0.20 db/mile."
"If a beam of light is to be transmitted for any considerable distance along the surface of the earth, it will have to be redirected at intervals in order to follow the terrain and focused repeatedly to counteract diffraction. The directing and focusing elements, whether lenses or mirrors, will introduce some loss in addition to that produced by the transmission medium itself. The experiment described in this paper was performed to determine the magnitude of the total loss encountered with such transmission and to determine how much of this loss is due to each of the contributing factors. A beam of light, enclosed in a metal pipe, was redirected many times by confocally-spaced spherical mirrors, and the loss as a function of the distance over which the beam had been transmitted was determined. At the operating wavelength of 6328 Å these losses, which were found to be almost entirely due to mirror deficiencies, amounted to about 1 per cent per reflection. As a result of the loss being largely in the mirrors the loss per mile depends to a considerable extent upon the spacing between these optical elements. The expected loss for a number of assumed spacings is tabulated. The experimental results encourage the belief that beams of coherent light can be redirected and focused many times without excessive loss, and that the mechanical stability required can be obtained — in the laboratory at least."
"A code which is to be used for error control on a real data system is necessarily restricted by the nature of the transmitting equipment. These restrictions have no connection with the primary function of the code; indeed, they frequently eliminate most of the codes about which anything is known at present. For example, the code to be used for error control by detection and retransmission on the trunks between data switching centers is required to be a cyclic (or truncated cyclic) code with 744 information places and 20 parity check bits. The computational problem in this case is to locate those cyclic codes which have exactly 20 parity checks and a block length of 764 or greater, and pick the one which is best suited for error control over a particular channel. This paper outlines a procedure for attacking such problems. It describes how to locate the cyclic codes with a fixed block length and a fixed number of parity checks, if any such exist, and gives some methods of finding the number of code words of each weight in a particular code. If one knows the statistics of the channel it is then possible to estimate the error control properties of the code. The procedure depends on an analysis of the algebraic structure of cyclic codes, which is given in Section II of this paper. Section I contains step-by-step instructions with no mathematical justification. It is hoped that the theory presented in Section II may be useful in other applications."
"Using a numerical technique which is different from the iteration method of Fox and Li and which is more suitable for the analysis of high-order modes, we have calculated the diffraction losses and the field distributions at the reflectors of the low-loss modes of a symmetric confocal resonator for Fresnel numbers 0.6 ≦ Nm ≦ 2.0. We have also computed the modifications which result when the two end reflectors are perturbed by circular output-coupling apertures centered on the cavity axis. For a range of small but useful aperture Fresnel numbers N0 the aperture diffraction losses can be estimated by first-order perturbation theory from the finite-Nm results appropriate to N0 &equal; 0. Such estimates fail for those larger Fresnel numbers N0 for which the mode intensity patterns are significantly distorted at the reflectors by the finite coupling apertures."
"Microwave oscillations have been obtained on a pulse basis from silicon diodes. This brief reports fabrication details and pcrformance data. The similmarties of this device to that proposed by Read I are discussed."
"Experimental 224 Mb/s terminal equipment for a toll-grade, long-haul PCM transmission system has been designed, constructed, and successfully operated. Transmission of television and frequency-multiplexed mastergroups of voice channels is emphasized. Fundamental design considerations are explored. Detailed designs and performance levels are briefly mentioned, but are covered in detail in companion articles."
"Solid-state device and circuit technology has advanced to the point where processing of digital signals with bit rates as high as 224 Mb/s may be accomplished. As a specific demonstration of this fact, an experimental mutliplexer-demultiplexer has been developed which combines the following signals into a 224 Mb/s binary pulse train for transmission over a digital transmission network and which furnishes the necessary processing to reconstitute the original signal components: i) A PCM-coded commercial color video signal (111.2 Mb/s) ii) A PCM-coded FDM mastergroup signal (55.6 Mb/s) iii) Two T1 carrier (24 voice channel TDM) signals (1.544 Mb/s each) iv) Word generator signals to occupy the remaining time slots. The line bit rate is derived from and is therefore synchronous with the coded video signal; however, the coded mastergroup and T1 carrier signals are derived from independent clocks. Synchronization of the latter two signal types has been achieved through the use of pulse stuffing synchronization with added-bit synchronization signaling. The ability of a 224 Mb/s buffer memory coupled with a phase-locked loop to attenuate adequately the timing jitter which accumulates in a long digital transmission network has also been demonstrated. All of the experimental results have indicated that the realization of a commercial high-speed digital multiplexer-demultiplexer is feasible."
"High-speed PCM codecs (coders and decoders) have been constructed to handle broadband signals such as a mastergroup of telephone channels or an NTSC color TV signal. Two widely different approaches to the realization of the coding function are described. The first and earliest version utilizes a beam coding tube to convert the analog signal to digital form. The second approach employs a tandem array of solid-state stages to perform the required conversion. Associated circuits to implement the filtering, sampling, holding, timing, translation, framing, and decoding functions in a PCM codec are also described. Analysis results, experience gained in design, and measured performance of the coders and the associated circuits that make up a PCM codec demonstrate that they can be produced to meet stringent performance objectives."
"The dynamical theory of telephone traffic in connecting networks, initiated by A. K. Erlang, has long lacked satisfactory ways of making approximations and deriving inequalities. These would reduce the fantastic computational burden implicit in the “statistical equilibrium” equations while still controlling accuracy. It is the aim of this paper to present a start in such a direction, in the form of inequalities (valid for wide classes of networks) for moments, probabilities, and ratios of expectations, among these last being the loss. The bounds in one series of these inequalities all depend on the known distribution of the number of calls in progress in a nonblocking network associated with the network under study. In a second series of cognate, simpler, but weaker inequalities, these bounds depend on Erlang's loss function or more generally on the terms of the Poisson distribution."
"A transistor pulse amplifier delivering a 1.1-ampere, 11-nanosecond pulse at an 80-mc rate into a 15-ohm load has been designed. This amplifier was developed for use with an optical modulator. This paper describes the performance and gives the design and construction details of the amplifier."
"A transistor amplifier capable of delivering 14 watts of CW power into a 15-ohm load over a band of frequencies from 46 to 90 mc was designed for use with an FM optical modulator. This paper describes the performance and details the design and construction of the amplifier."
"This paper provides a preliminary assessment of electromagnetic wave propagation in focusing media which departs from those previously studied, ideal lenses and continuous media with square-law index variation. New approximate methods are described for obtaining the transverse beam width, phase constant, and ray trajectory in continuous lens-like media, and for determining stability conditions in lens waveguides, where the lenses contain spherical aberration and the continuous media contain fourth-order or higher-order terms of variation in index of refraction. It is proven that only in aberrationless-lens waveguides or in a continuous medium with square-law index variation will the shape of a beam injected off axis or with an angle to the medium's axis remain constant about a beam axis which oscillates about the axis of the medium. In non-square law media the beam will spread, but knowledge of the coefficients describing the medium and the position and angle of the injected beam enables one to specify the maximum radius within which all of the energy will be confined. The following is an example of the type of solution obtained for non-square law media: for a medium characterized by the transverse index variation $n_a (1-{1/2}a_4 x^4)$ and assuming no index variation exists in the direction of propagation, the radius to the 1/e point infield is approximately $w_e = 0.666{\\lambda^{1/3} \\over a_{4}^{1/6}}$ and the phase constant is $\\beta = {2\\pi \\over \\lambda} - {0.256(a_4 \\lambda)^{1/3}(m + 1)^2 \\over \\left({m + 2.5 \\over 2.5})^2/3}$ where the free-space wavelength $\\lambda_0 = n_{a} \\lambda$ and m is the order of the mode, m = 0, 1, 2 … Quite generally, non-square law media show dispersion, and unlike the square-law media the various modes travel with different group velocities. Expressions are given to allow these effects to be evaluated for small perturbations on a square-law medium as well as for higher-order index variations. The transverse beam shape associated with any law of index variation is shown to be as well approximated (in the region of signifteant power density) by a cosine function or Ga1lssian function as is the field for an ideal lens-waveguide approximated by a Gaussian function in the presence of typical diffraction losses. Normal mode shapes are obtained for resonators with fourth-order and eighth-order mirrors by the method of Fox and Li; diffraction 108se8 for a few Fresnel number8 are also given. In a certain range of Fresnel n1lmbers, fourth- and eighth-order mirrors give lower diffraction losse8 than spherical mirrors. An approximate method for solving the paraxial ray equation for rather general (non-square-law) media is outlined. Requiring only reciprocity and symmetry about the medium's axis, it is shown that tlu) radial position of the ray (x) is related to distance (z) along the axis of the medium by $x = \\sum b_m cos m\\beta z$ where m = 1, 3, 5, 7 …. Moreover, it is shown that this series converges very rapidly, making it possible to get a good approximate representation with only a few terms. For example, for the fourth-order medium described above, an approximate solution is $x = x_{0} \\{0.959 cos \\beta z + 0.041 cos 3 \\beta z \\}$ where $ \\beta = x_{0} \\sqrt{1.44a_4}$. It is characteristic of all non-square law media to have a ray period 2Π/β which is a function of the peak ray displacement, x0 Lens waveguides with fourth- or higher-order terms in the focusing or index function can of course exhibit increasingly strong focusing for energy departing farther from the medium's axis, and if the lenses are suitably spaced might be useful in reducing the magnitude of beam wander due to imperfections or guide-axis curvature. However, for a given beam spot size, non-square-law lenses must be placed closer together than square-law lenses. Use of non-square law lenses or distributed media in transmission systems will most probably require repeater-system techniques which are operable with multi-mode signals at the receiver input."
"It is well known that uncorrelated, transverse displacements of the lenses of a beam-waveguide cause the light beam to deviate from its axis and that the tolerance requirements on the accuracy of the transverse lens positions are very stringent. This paper extends the statistics of beam waveguides to include correlations between displacements of different lenses and studies the effects of a succession of uncorrelated bends. It can be concluded from this work that the rms deviation of the light beam is proportional to the square root of the length of the waveguide if the correlation between lens displacements extends only over a limited range. The amplitude of the Fourier component of the waveguide axis whose period equals the oscillation period of the ray has to be less than 0.2 micron if the deviation of a light beam passing through 10,000 lenses of a confocal waveguide is to be kept less than 2 mm. This requirement means that the average radius of curvature of a waveguide composed of independent circular sections of an average length of 20 m with lenses spaced 1 m apart has to be more than 10 km. The comparison between two model guides, one composed of circular section and the other of sections shaped like sin2 sin2 βx, indicates that the beam deflection depends only on the average radius of curvature and average length of the sections but not on their particular shape."
"Gas lenses are being considered as focusing elements of beam-waveguides. Since very many lenses are needed to form a long waveguide, it is reasonable to consider periodic arrangements of gas lenses. Such periodic structures might operate with a gas stream which flows through all of the lenses in succession. A periodic temperature distribution in the gas results which is different from that of single gas lenses considered in two earlier papers.3,4 This paper analyses the ray optics properties, such as focal length and principal surfaces of the gas lenses, of two types of alternating gradient focusing systems. One system consists simply of a succession of hot and cold tubes. The other system results from the first by insertion of heat insulating tubes of equal length between the hot and cold tubes."
"If a ray is launched in a direction coincident with the axis of a lens light guide whose axis is somewhat wavy, the ray will soon begin to oscillate about the axis. The amplitude of these oscillations will grow in proportion to the square root of the product of the distance from the origin and the natural warn number of the oscillations, on the average. The growth rate is proportional to the amplitude of the components of the spectrum of the waves in the guide axis in the immediate vicinity of the natural wave number of the ray oscillations. The rest of the spectrum of waves in the guide does not contribute appreciably to the growth of ray oscillations after the first few oscillations. A tractable analytic expression with four adjustable parameters is used to approximate the wave spectrum of the shape of the guide axis. The expression is used to illustrate the relations between various factors such as mechanical stiffness of the guide, spectrum of external forces, over-all amplitude of waves in the guide, etc., and the rate of growth of the ray oscillations. Estimates of the order of magnitude of the oscillation growth rate in some realistic models of light guides are made from these relations."
"In a recent paper by this writer, some new techniques are described for obtaining sufficient conditions for the L2-boundedness and L∞-boundedness of solutions of nonlinear functional equations. In this paper, these techniques are developed further and are used to prove some stability results for large classes of feedback systems and electrical networks that contain subsystems which are not necessarily representable in terms of ordinary differential equations."
"The spectral density of a frequency modulated carrier is evaluated for the case when the modulating baseband wave is a “quantized” random facsimile signal. By this nonsynchronous form of modulation we mean holding one of the allowed set of transmitted frequencies for a finite, but randomly distributed, time before switching to another frequency while maintaining phase continuity. Emphasis is given to the Poisson case of exponentially distributed intervals between transitions, and some typical curves for discrete level and continuous level situations are included."
"A procedure is presented for evaluating the performance of a general class of digital detectors which square or multiply signal waves contaminated by gaussian noise. In addition to simplifying and unifying the treatment of a number of previously solved problems and some hitherto unsolved ones, the method achieves a considerable advance toward a complete evaluation of postdetection filtering. In contrast to most of the earlier related work, which is typically restricted to filters described as accepting low-frequency difference products and rejecting high-frequency sum products, the present analysis offers a tractable inclusion of filters which do significant selective processing of the detected low-frequency signal and noise components. A principal goal sought is the asymptotic form approached by the error probability expressed as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio when the latter is large. This is a primary region of interest in digital data transmission over the telephone network, and the applicable results give a basis for comparing performance of different systems. The mathematical problem is one of calculating the probability that a quadratic form in a set of gaussian variables with arbitrary means and variances will assume values critically far removed from that obtained when each variable is at its mean. The mean values represent signal contributions unperturbed by noise and for good performance should dominate over the noise except at the tails of the distribution. Concentration of attention on the infrequent large noise peaks calls for an approach inherently different from the conventional series expansions appropriate near the center of the distribution. The results are of importance not only in detection theory but also in general statistical analysis of rare events."
"The problem of optium reception of M-ary Gaussian signals in Gaussian noise is to specify, in terms of the observable waveform, a scheme for deciding among M alternative mean and covariance functions with minimum error probability. Although much literature on the problem exists, a mathematically rigorous solution has yet to appear. By formulating the problem as optimum discrimination of M Gaussian measures in function space induced by the mean and covariance functions, this paper presents such a solution. Let mk(t) and rk(s,t), k &equal; 1, …, M, be the alternative mean and covariance functions of the Gaussian signal, and let m0(t) and r0(s,t) be the mean and covariance functions of the Gaussian noise. If, for each k &equal; 1, …, M, the integral equations, $\\int r_{0}(s,t)g_{k}(s) ds = m_{k}(t)$ and $\\int \\int r_{0}(s,u)h_{k}(u,v)[r_{0}(v,t) + r_{k}(v,t)] du dv = r_{k}(s,t),$ admit a square-integrable solution gk(t) and a symmetric, square-integrable solution hk(s,t), then the following decision scheme is optimum: given an observable waveform x(t), choose mk(t) and rk(s,t) if Ik(x) is the largest among all Ij(x), j &equal; 1, …, M, where Ik is defined by $I_{k}(x) = {1 \\over 2} \\int \\int x(s)h_{k}(s,t)x(t) ds dt + \\int x(t)f_{k}(t) dt + c_{k}$ in which $f_{k}(t) = g_{k}(t) - \\int h_{k}(s,t)[m_{0}(s) + m_{k}(s)] ds$ and ck is a constant determined by the mean and covariance functions m0(t), mk(t), r0(s,t) and rk(s,t) as well as the a priori probability associated with mk(t) and rk(s,t). The first section introduces and defines the problem and the second presents the solution with pertinent discussions while a precise mathematical treatment is left to the appendix."
"The successful TELSTAR® and Relay satellite experiments have led to consideration of the equipment and techniques that might be incorporated in future commercial and military satellite communication systems."
"A Precise Measurement of the Gain of a Large Horn-Reflector Antenna, D.C. Hogg, and R.W. Wilson, B.S.T.J., 44, July-August, 1965, pp.1019–1030."
"An antenna suitable for ground stations of satellite communications systems is described. The antenna has very good low-noise properties, high aperture efficiency, and excellent broadband characteristics. It can be operated without a radome and allows the location of all communications and tracking equipment in a stationary room on the ground. Called the “triply-folded horn-reflector antenna,” it is derived from the well-known conical horn-reflector antenna by folding the horn three times to bring its apex into a stationary position on the ground. Plane reflectors are used in the folding process and the propagation in the antenna is based on the principles of geometrical optics. The paper describes electrical tests on an antenna model at frequencies of 60 and 11 gc and presents results of hydrodynamic tests which were performed to study the behavior of the antenna in high wind."
"The open cassegrain antenna combines an asymmetric cassegrain reflector system with antenna rotation about two non-orthogonal axes. The compact configuration provides well-controlled radiation with full hemispheric coverage. A comprehensive analysis of the antenna geometrical and radiation characteristics has been made, and an experimental antenna with 40-inch aperture, operating at 60 gcs, has been constructed and measured electrically. Agreement was obtained between the computed and measured characteristics of the antenna and its components. By computation, it is found that the aperture efficiency of the experimental antenna is 70.4 per cent, the antenna efficiency (neglecting ohmic loss) is 65 per cent, and based on measured subreflector radiation patterns, the noise temperature due to spillover at the main reflector is less than 4°K."
"The mechanical features of a preliminary concept for an open cassegrain antenna are discussed briefly. In the analysis, emphasis is given to the upper rotating structure, where the major problems are the provision for an efficient back-up structure for the main reflector and the selection of a suitable subreflector support structure. The philosophy and method of approach are described in detail. Representative deflection results are given for both gravity and wind loading. Other mechanical considerations pertinent to this configuration are discussed in general. The structural implications of exposed operation, in particular those due to wind, are considered at some length. The mechanical feasibility of this configuration is demonstrated by the current results."
"Mode conversion from TE11 to TM11 modes in circular waveguides is investigated. It is found that an iris placed across the waveguide or an abrupt change in guide radius (step) will produce a wide range of mode conversion coefficients which can be used in most dual-mode feedhorn applications. The step discontinuity is found to produce relatively constant mode conversion over a wide band of frequencies."
"The effects of random wind-induced torques and structural loading are described and evaluated in terms of antenna performance, pointing errors, and overturning stability. A model test theory is developed to utilize economical small scale models to accurately determine drag torque coefficients of complex asymmetrical structures, using water as the test medium. The technique utilizes towing of inverted instrumented models in a hydrodynamic test basin. Data are presented on both the open cassegrain and the triply-folded horn-reflector antennas."
"The use of non-orthogonal, or conic, mounts for steerable antennas introduces some control system design problems not present in the more conventional orthogonal mounts. These problems result from both the geometrical and the mechanical cross-coupling which occurs between the two non-orthogonal axes of motion. This paper presents a general analysis and design of the control system for the open cassegrain antenna which can be readily applied to other non-orthogonal antenna structures. The form of the feedback controller for approximately non-interacting control of each axis is developed. Also described is a supplementary control strategy for providing tracking near the zenith region without excessively high slewing rates. A computer simulation o1 the system has verified the basic control strategy for non-orthogonal mounts and established the feasibility of operating compact antenna structures such as the open cassegrain design under severe wind conditions without a radome."
"T1 carrier provides 24 voice channels by time division multiplexing and pulse code modulation (PCM). Each voice channel is sampled 8000 times a second and each sample is coded into a 7-digit binary word. Provision for signaling and synchronization raises the pulse repetition rate on the repeatered line to 1.544 × 106 pulse positions per second. The bipolar pulse train out of the terminals is transmitted over pulp, paper or plastic insulated paired cables by the use of regenerative repeaters. For 22-gauge cable pairs, repeaters are normally located at 6000-foot intervals. The system has been designed for low cost and is being widely applied on many trunks interconnecting switching units within metropolitan areas. Western Electric Company manufacture of T1 began in 1962 and about 100,000 channels are now in service throughout the Bell System."
"First-order probability distributions of speech amplitudes are studied to establish a theoretical basis for obtaining a measure of speech level. The logarithm of the long-term waveform of the speech envelope is found to be approximately uniformly distributed above a threshold. The average peak level (apl) is obtained by taking the time average of the log of the envelope waveform and deriving from it the peak of the log-uniform distribution which would have produced the same average. A theoretical analysis of various properties of the apl indicates that, within certain bounds, the apl satisfies a postulated set of requirements of an “ideal” speech level measure. A critical requirement is that the measure remain independent of the value of a threshold employed by a speech detector in the measuring device. It appears that variation in the threshold can typically change the apl by about one db. The Digital Speech Level Meter is described as an instrumentation of the technique used to obtain the apl. Measurements made with this meter are easily obtained and very repeatable, and are in general agreement with theoretical predictions."
"The conditions necessary to achieve undistorted transmission of a pulse signal over a channel of finite bandwidth have been set down by Nyquist. These conditions are extended in this paper to eliminate the bandwidth restrictions. Conditions on the real and imaginary parts of the overall system characteristic which lead to the elimination of intersymbol amplitude and pulse width distortion are found. These generalized constraints do not depend on any sharp band limitation and permit one to find ideal conditions for band pass and gradual cutoff systems. The application of Nyquist's conditions usually amounts to equalizing the transmission characteristics in order to approximate an overall linear phase and some sort of symmetrical amplitude roll-off. This paper shows that the principles of channel shaping for distortionless transmission are a good deal more flexible than this. The application of this more general interpretation of Nyquist's theory is illustrated by several examples."
"A number of 6328Å RF-excited He-Ne lasers have been designed and constructed with special attention to maximizing CW power in a single longitudinal and transverse mode. A single-mode output power of 1.6 mw has been obtained. Some novel features of the cavity structure provide good intrinsic frequency stability. The details of design and operation are given."
"It has been demonstrated that a metal-to-semiconductor rectifying junction can be designed as a fast computer diode.1,2 It can also be designed as a high performance varactor.3.4 There is increasing evidence that Schottky barrier diodes may, with suitable design modifications, outperform the conventional point contact diodes in the field of varistor applications.5,6"
"The microwave link between a ground station and a communications satellite is normally vcry sta ble and essentially free from fading. Under conditions of rain or snow, however, the transmitted and received signals encounter cxtrn attenuation and additional noise is introduced into the low-noise receiver on the ground. A good knowledge of such rain effects is important for the design of satellite ground stations which have to meet certain statistical requirements for transmission degradation. It is known that radome covered ground stations like Andover, suffer more degradation during rain than uncovered stations. Some analytical work has been done by D. Gibble1 and B. C. Blevis2 to determine the effects of a water layer on radomes. Their theoretical work has been supplemented by an experimental technique applicable at existing satellite ground stations and to be described in this brief report. It consists of measuring the reduction of the noise power received from the strong and stable radio star Cassiopeia A during periods of rain."
"This article is a survey-type discussion of the Bell System's No. 1 Electronic Switching System for central office use and No. 101 Electronic Switching System for business use. For both systems it presents background history and descriptions of the major subsystems and components. It also covers recent manufacture, installation and commercial service of these two systems."
"The magnetic characteristics of medium carbon steels were examined to determine whether these steels can be used as core materials for magnetic latching wire spring relays. The analysis of the data show that steels with a carbon content ranging from 0.35 per cent to 0.50 per cent, heat treated to a Rockwell hardness ranging from 30 to 45 points on the “C” scale, are satisfactory core materials. The analysis further shows that the relays are latched more securely if the carbon content of the steel used for the core is high, and that the hardness in the above-mentioned range has very little effect on the latching characteristics."
"The gain of a horn-reflector antenna with an aperture area of about 400 square feet has been measured with a probable error of 2 per cent at a frequency of 4080 mc. Errors and fluctuations normally introduced into gain measurements by terrain and other environment were obviated by mounting the source on a helicopter which maintained a position about 2500 ft. above ground at a distance of one mile from the antenna under test. It is concluded that high precision can be obtained in measurement of gain of large antennas using such methods."
"There is a growing demand for modern communication systems capable of transmitting high-speed data signals over Bell System facilities designed primarily to provide telephone service. Much of this data traffic can be handled within telephone channels in the switched network. Somewhat higher data rates are feasible on private lines by selection of facilities and special treatment of the voice-grade circuits. The need for still higher data bit rates requires bandwidths equivalent to many message channels, e.g., the 12-channel group, the 60-channel supergroup, and the 600-channel mastergroup. Presentation of basic measured data to statistically characterize transmission in the broader bands in terms of frequency domain specifications is the object of this paper. Data reduction is covered in detail. Characteristics of built-up connections are predicted from knowledge of the characteristics of subunits, including inherent variability. Such variability is a basic limitation on the degree of equalization that can be achieved with a small set of fixed networks."
"The following four channels are considered: (A) a class of discrete memoryless channels with q inputs and outputs, (B) the time-discrete, amplitude-continuous memoryless channel with additive Gaussian noise and amplitude constraint, (C) the same as channel B but with energy instead of amplitude constraint, (D) a class of time-discrete, amplitude-continuous memoryless channels with amplitude constraint and non-Gaussian noise. For each channel the theoretical capabilities of “bounded discrepancy decoding” are studied. The “discrepancy” between two vectors is a distance or distance-like quantity defined such that the optimal decoder is a “minimum discrepancy decoder.” For example, for channel A the discrepancy is the Hamming distance, and for channel B the discrepancy is the Euclidean distance. Bounded discrepancy decoding is a nonoptimal decoding scheme in which disjoint regions in the space of possible received vectors are constructed about each code word, each region consisting of those vectors within a fixed discrepancy of that code word. For example, in channels A and B the regions are spheres with centers at the code words and radius d/2 where d is the minimum distance between code words. If the received vector is in the region about code word i, it is decoded as code word i; otherwise the decoder announces an error. For all four classes of channels the following is shown to hold: There exists a fixed positive rate CB below which it is possible (asymptotically in n) to obtain exponentially small error probability using bounded discrepancy decoding. In many cases CB is shown to be strictly less than the channel capacity."
"Receiver design for a binary communication system which operates over a linear channel with a random delay is considered. It is assumed that the variance of the random delay is very small and that the rate of growth of its moments is restricted. Under certain smoothness requirements on the received signal an approximation to the test statistic, which is optimum in the Neyman-Pearson sense, is derived for the case of gaussian receiver noise with covariance R(τ) &equal; R(0)eβ$|τ|. It is found that the test statistic, which in general is nonlinear, assumes the linear form of a crosscorrelator when phase reversal signaling is employed. The case where the noise is white and phase reversal signaling is used is investigated. The correlation waveform in this case is found to consist of the expected value of the received signal plus a term dependent on the slope of the signal when the delay is equal to its mean value."
"In telephone traffic studies, the observed “proportion of unsuccessful attempts over a given time interval is one of the measures commonly used to evaluate the grade of service provided by trunk groups. This paper deals with the derivation of an approximate formula for the variance of this estimate when (i) call arrivals constitute a Poisson process, (ii) service times are independent of each other and identically distributed according to a negative exponential law, and (iii) calls placed when all trunks are busy are either cancelled or sent via some alternate route (loss system). Comparison of simulation data with numerical values computed by means of this formula indicates that the latter is accurate enough for practical purposes. The observed proportion of time during which all trunks are occupied is also an estimate of the grade of service (defined as the probability that a call will be lost or overflow). It is shown here, that for relatively small loads, this estimate has a smaller variance than the observed proportion of lost or rerouted calls. However, as the load is increased, the inequality between the variances of these two estimates is reversed, the cross-over occurring in the vicinity of the point where the load (in erlangs) is equal to the number of trunks. For a given observation period, the proportion of time when all trunks are busy can be either measured exactly or estimated by “switch-counting.” In the latter case, the group is scanned at regular intervals and one observes, for each scan, whether all trunks are occupied or not. The average number of scans which indicate that all trunks are busy is an estimate of this proportion and is, a fortiori, an estimate of the probability of loss. The effect of the scanning rate on the accuracy of this estimate is investigated."
"Formulas are derived for the spectral density function of an ensemble of continuous-phase, constant-envelope FM waves. The modulation signals are random time series of the form $\\sum_{n}a_{n}g(t-nT),$ where g(t) is an arbitrary pulse of finite duration rT, r ≧ 1. The an's are independent random variables possessing identical but otherwise arbitrary probability distribution. The derived results are general and are presented in terms of averages of elementary functions. When the an's are discrete random variables, both continuous and discrete spectra are treated, and conditions in terms of the modulation parameters are given under which discrete spectral lines are present. Several of our specialized formulas are applicable in the study of multilevel FM data transmission systems as well as in pulse frequency modulation."
"The problem of decomposing an arbitrary periodic function defined on an n-dimensional cubic lattice into finite linear combinations of certain primitive functions is considered. Generally, a primitive function is one which periodically assumes only the valves ±1 and 0. Rather simple necessary and sufficient conditions are derived for such a decomposition and when a decomposition is possible, an algorithm is given which accomplishes it. These results have been used in recent generalizations of the Ewald method."
"Let R(t,a) denote the envelope of a stationary random process consisting of a sinusoidal signal of amplitude $\\sqrt{2a}$ and frequen f0 10 plus Gaussian noise of unit variance having a narrow-band power spectral density which is symmetrical about f0. When a = 0 Rice1 presented some theoretical results which are very useful for studying statistical properties of the axis-crossing intervals of R(t,0). The axis-crossing points and the axis-crossing intervals of the Rayleigh process R(t,a) are defined in Fig. 1. Some recent work concerning the axis-crossing in tervals of R(t,a) was reported by Levin and Fomin2, Goryainov,3 and Rainal.4,5 The purpose of this brief is to present some theoretical results when a ≧ 0, These results stcm from a straightforward extension of Rice's analysis. The Rayleigh process R(t,a) occurs at the output of a typical radio or radar receiver duringing the reception of a sinusoidal signal immersed in Gaussian noise."
"A Note on a Signal Recovery Problem, by I. W. Sandberg, B.S.T.J., 43, November 1964, pp. 3065-3067."
"The N2 carrier terminal, a 12-channel, double-sideband, amplitude modulated multiplex, is the first of a new family of short-haul carrier facilities. The new carrier family is designed to take advantage of improvements possible with solid-state technology and to meet changing needs of the growing Bell System toll network. Increased demands on the short-haul trunks have resulted from the growth of voice and nonvoice services on the DDD network, tightening requirements such as those for over-all net loss variations between channels and gain variations across the channel frequency band. Maintenance and operational features of short-haul facilities also are affected by the increase in complexity and size of the Bell System carrier network: newer equipment must have fewer adjustments, and the design must provide built-in margins to permit longer maintenance intervals and more effective alarm and trunk processing features in case of failure. The new carrier family must compete economically with existing short-haul systems, yet work with in-place carrier systems and facilities. The new terminal meets the above objectives. In addition, improvements in the performance of N-carrier repeatered lines are indicated as a result of the systems analysis of short-haul carrier systems which led to the requirements for the N2 terminal."
"The N2 carrier circuit design takes advantage of solid-state technology to provide economies in power consumption and space requirements over earlier N-carrier equipment. At the same time, improvements in performance have been obtained in the areas of noise, signal distortion, and net loss stability. The last two are obtained through the extensive use of negative feedback in amplifiers and regulators and the use of variolosser diodes in the compandor which are stable over a wide operating range. Wider effective channel bandwidths have been attained. Where the terminal is used for nonvoice services, the resulting decrease in delay distortion is significant. Maintenance and testing on an in-service basis have been provided, including in-service switching of group units and power supplies."
"Packaging the N2 carrier terminal has significantly reduced space requirements, the number of interbay wiring connections, and the number of wired options as compared to former N-type carrier equipment. At the same time noise and crosstalk performance has been improved, and ease of maintenance and operation has been provided. Isolation of “noisy” (high signal level) leads from “quiet” (low signal level) leads has been effected by routing the two sets of leads in separate ducts on newly developed double-bay duct-type frames. Wired options are simplified by furnishing optional equipment on a plug-in basis, with wiring confined to simple strapping. Automatic alarm, circuit condition and restoral equipment is furnished as part of the packaged terminal. Maintenance of multichannel equipment can be performed on an in-service basis"
"It is shown that an automatic phase-locked loop (APLL) can be used as a bandpass filter and FM discriminator while satisfying the circuit conditions imposed by microminiaturization techniques. It has the advantage over other methods of ease of adjustment and reduction in the number of circuit components. For this reason it is to be assumed that the APLL will be added to the few practical solutions of the frequency selection problem in microminiaturization available to date. In contrast to most other applications, no assumptions can be made here about the ratio of the natural undamped system frequency to the lock range of the loop. This is taken account of in an analysis of the APLL which enables design equations and considerations to be derived. An approximation of the so-called capture ratio, defined as the ratio of capture-to-lock range, is presented. It produces results that correspond very well with the equivalent measurements. The description of an APLL designed as RC channel filter and discriminator for a multichannel data receiver is presented. RC active circuits that are compatible with current microminiaturization techniques are employed exclusively. They are described in detail, and an analysis of the voltage-controlled oscillator used is included in the Appendix."
"The main purpose of this paper is to present a reasonably complete picture of the results of the first phase of some recent research on the properties of solutions of nonlinear functional equations that frequently arise in the study of physical systems. We consider in detail the properties of a vector nonlinear Volterra integral equation of the second kind, and some conditions are presented for the norm boundedness of solutions of a functional equation of similar type defined on an abstract space. More specifically, concerning the Volterra equation, conditions are presented under which the solutions (a) approach zero as t → ∞, (b) approach zero exponentially as t → ∞, (c) are uniformly bounded on t ≧ 0, (d) are square integrable on [0, ∞), or (e) are ultimately periodic. On the basis of these results, it appears that an input-output stability theory of a large class of time-varying nonlinear systems of engineering interest is well within sight."
"The attenuation of the Holmdel, N. J., Bell Telephone Laboratories two-inch diameter helix waveguide operating in the circular electric mode has been measured in the 100–125-kmc band. With these measurements the helix waveguide attenuation is now known from 33 kmc to 125 kmc. Above 100 kmc the loss increases with frequency, as contrasted to all previous lower-frequency measurements, which show the loss decreasing with increasing frequency. The minimum loss of 2 db/mile occurs around 90 kmc. The loss is below 3 db/mile from 40 kmc to 116 kmc. A loss peak observed at 122 kmc is believed due to the method of supporting the sections of the waveguide measured. An analysis of the loss peak is presented which indicates that this loss peak can be avoided by suitably supporting a helix installation."
"Expressions are derived for the stability parameter, spot size, and wavefront curvature of a Gaussian beam in a ring resonator containing up to four spherical mirrors unequally spaced. Higher-order transverse modes and aperture effects are not considered. Two methods of analysis are used: (1) replacement of the mirrors by an infinite sequence of equally-spaced identical thick lenses, and (2) transformation of the beam into itself after one circuit of the ring, by means of a ray matrix representation of the equivalent thin lenses. The procedure can readily be extended to ring resonators with any number of spherical mirrors."
"The losses, phase shifts and field distribution functions for the two lowest-order modes of interferometer-type maser resonators consisting of spherically curved mirrors with circular apertures are computed by solving a pair of integral equations numerically on a digital computer. Solutions are obtained for the symmetric geometry of identically curved mirrors and for the half-symmetric geometry consisting of one plane and one curved mirror, with the radius of curvature of the mirrors as a variable parameter. The confocal or near-confocal configuration is shown to have good mode-selective properties in that the ratio of the loss of the second lowest-order (TEM10) mode to that of the lowest-order (TEM00) mode is the largest of the configurations considered. The numerical results should be of interest to those concerned with the problem of mode selection in optical masers and with the design of single-mode masers with relatively low gain."
"Concentrated study by the American Telephone and Telegraph Co. and Bell Telephone Laboratories has resulted in several engineering and design innovations that permit more efficient utilization of the exchange cable network. As a first step, a mathematical model of the customer loop plant was developed from survey data. With this model, studies have been made of the transmission properties of the loop plant at both voice-band and carrier frequencies via computer analysis. Results of such studies have been useful in planning plant improvement programs and have also been used to evaluate such new concepts as “dedicated outside plant” and “uniform-gauge customer cable plant.” Other computer programs have been and are being developed to aid in engineering cable routes for future growth and to evaluate alternatives to placing new cable, such as concentrators and exchange carrier systems. Studies to optimize the placement of new switching centers, taking into account existing wire centers and forecasts of growth for the area, have been made by computer analyses. These computer programs aid engineers in making studies in much more depth and in less time than was possible with older cut-and-try methods."
"The purpose of this paper is to discuss an epoch detection procedure which is very useful for the resolution and detection of signals overlapping in time. An epoch is the beginning instant of a signal. The epoch detection procedure is based on the following hypotheses: On the null hypothesis H0 that a certain instant t is not an epoch, analytical continuation exists at t, and one may predict the signal in the future based on past experience or vice versa. On the hypothesis H1 that t is an epoch, the analytic continuation is disrupted at t. Based on this idea and the assumption of a Gaussian noise, a test statistic is derived from the maximum likelihood principle. The test statistic may be obtained at the output terminal of a linear filter. The performance of such a system is considered. Also discussed briefly are the cases of overlapping stochastic signals and overlapping radar signals. Some experimental results obtained from a digital computer are shown."
"The Ewald method was originally invented to compute the Madelung constant. In this paper we consider a lattice whose sites are associated with an arbitrary potential function. The “charge,” or the scale factor for these potential functions, need not be the same at each site. We consider the evaluation of the resulting lattice sum at an arbitrary point, not necessarily at a lattice site. The method involves two generalizations over previous work: (1) the displacement of the origin off a lattice site and (2) the handling of arbitrary periodic charge distributions by decomposing such distributions into simpler ones involving only +q and −q. The method should prove particularly useful for evaluating the expansion coefficients of the crystalline potential when this potential is expanded in the usual spherical harmonic series."
"Sufficient conditions are presented for the boundedness of the solutions of a vector nonlinear Volterra integral equation of the second kind that frequently arises in the study of automatic control systems containing an arbitrary finite number of time-varying nonlinear elements. Similar conditions are given for the boundedness of the solutions of the discrete analog of the integral equation. A direct application of the results yields a Nyquist-like frequency-domain condition for the “bounded-input implies bounded-output stability” of a large class of feedback systems containing a single time-varying nonlinear element."
"This paper discusses the modes of optical resonators, and optical modes of propagation or Gaussian beams of light. The passage of Gaussian beams through lenses, telescopes, sequences of lenses, and lenslike media is studied. Mode matching formulae are derived. A complex beam parameter is introduced for which the law of transformation by any given optical structure can be written in the simple form of a bilinear transformation (ABCD law). Resonators with internal optical elements and their transmission line duals are also investigated. Effective Fresnel numbers and curvature parameters are determined which allow one to infer the diffraction losses, the resonant conditions, and the mode patterns of the various systems. Results are obtained for resonators with internal lenses, sequences of lenses with irises inserted between the lenses, resonators with internal lenslike media, transmission lines consisting of a lenslike medium with periodically spaced irises, and resonators with one very large mirror."
"The propagation of magnetoelastic waves in a magnetic insulator having a nonuniform internal magnetic field is examined in the geometrical optics approximation. Hamilton's ray path equations are obtained from the slowness relation for the medium, and it is shown that for YIG there is a substantial focusing action in the rod configuration commonly used for magnetic delay line experiments. When external field shaping is used to produce a minimum internal field at the midpoint of the rod it is found that divergence of the magnetoelastic waves is to be expected."
"Some of the properties of random traffic in nonblocking connecting networks are described and proved. Even though nonblocking networks are rare, they represent an important limiting case, approached as blocking is reduced by adding switches. For many purposes they provide a useful first approximation in the calculation of system parameters. The number of calls in progress is extensively studied in both equilibrium and transient regimes, and its properties are used to distinguish between the wide and strict senses of “nonblocking.”"
"The absolute gain of a standard horn is often measured by determining the transmission loss versus separation between two identical standard horns. Correction ratios are needed because the usual criterion for separation (2a2λ) may not justify the use of the far-zone power transmission formula. Using the near-field power transmission formula, the ratio between the Fraunhofer and Fresnel gain of a pyramidal electromagnetic horn has been computed as a function of horn dimensions and separation distance. The calculated corrections have been applied in the absolute gain measurement of a standard horn which was used as a calibration reference in a recent 4080-mc gain measurement of a large horn-reflector antenna. The measured gain of the standard horn at 4080 mc is 20.11 db with an accuracy of ±0.035 db. The calculated gain is 20.15 db."
"When laser bcams are propagated through the air, they are modulatcd with a noise-like spectrum1,2 having a baseband width the order of hundreds of cycles and a nearly exponential frequency distribution.1 Hogg1 used a 2.6-km path; Hinchman and Buck2 used paths of 9 and 90 miles. In each case the optics alld range were such that the receiver col lected a small fraction of the total beam. Since atmospheric refraction causes twinkling and tearing of the beam, one would expect amplitude modulation of the signal received under these conditions even for constant intensity of the total beam."
"Projection performance of processed motion-picture film is improved by lubrication whereby the coefficient of friction is controlled within the range that gives steady, reproducible positioning of successive frames with the least strain on the perforations. Printer effectiveness can also be improved by lubricating the negative to facilitate a constant pitch relationship to the raw stock, and to minimize minor abrasions. Irrespective of the extensive research work on film lubrication and the wide experience gained over the years, considerable misunderstanding of this subject still exists. This paper reviews the pertinent background, examines the processes and materials for lubrication and describes several procedures of proven effectiveness."
"A video-modulation system, applicable to space technology, has been designed for use in the investigation of modulation and transmission of single-frame television images. Design objectives included generation of a high-quality video signal with resolution precisely controllable from approximately 100 × 100 to 1000 × 1000 picture elements. The output signal, limited to the audio-frequency range, permits the operator to generate bandwidths from 100 cycles to 8 kilocycles. An unusual degree of flexibility is provided and the major limitations of conventional slow-scan systems are eliminated."
"A giant-pulsed laser is used to actively illuminate a distant target with a light pulse of about 60 × 10−9-sec duration. The 50 × 10−9-sec exposure of an image-converter camera is delayed the proper amount with respect to the laser to allow only the return from the target to enter the camera. It is shown that backscatter from atmospheric particles (such as snow) can be greatly reduced by this technique-"
"When the pinhole is used as an optical lens, it is found to have an essentially infinite depth of focus. This attribute along with advantages associated with its simplicity made it very attractive for use as the lens in the closed-circuit television system used in a complex, computer-operated space flight simulator. The only dimension which can be varied to obtain maximum picture quality is the pinhole diameter. This article shows the results of a survey of published work on pinhole optimization."
"A description of the operational advantages gained by use of pinhole optics in the design of a visual flight simulator is presented. Television engineering problems associated with the use of pinhole optics, particularly with regard to the scene lighting required, are outlined. The trade-off between a common lens system and a pinhole lens system is discussed. The need for unique manufacturing and quality control methods to produce satisfactory pinholes also is considered, along with some associated problems in designing peripheral visual display equipment. Finally, a theory of the choice of pinhole focal length and aperture size is discussed."
"Photoinstrumentation in undersea exploration is discussed with particular reference to the U.S. Navy's recent success with Project Sealab I. Photographic equipments used in the experiment are described and recommendations based on observations made during the experiment are outlined."
"Photographic techniques are extremely useful in the study of fast phenomena or transient conditions. In such a study, it is necessary to know precisely the time elapsed during the different phases of the phenomenon. If more than one highspeed camera is used, it is important to correlate the time indications for all cameras, so that simultaneous photographs can be assembled. The easiest way to record time is to mark it on one edge of the film by means of a time-coded light. An accurate coded timing-light generator, giving a precision of a fraction of a millisecond, has been built and is described in this paper. It is capable of coding many cameras simultaneously at distances of many hundreds of feet. — The master unit is triggered by a crystal-controlled oscillator. Transistorized multivibrators generate the timing for the length of the different pulses indicating the seconds, the tenths, hundredths and thousandths of seconds. A transistorized switch applies 350 v to a NE 51 H (General Electric) neon bulb. Slave units are used at each camera location; they can work on dry batteries and are fully transistorized. The complete system is composed of the above decimal system, marking one edge of the film, and of a real-time digital master unit connected to the real-time slave units and lamps that mark the opposite edge of the film."
"The adaptation of a conventional motion-picture camera geared head for an ultraslow pan-and-tilt movement for time-lapse cloud photography is discussed. This assembly enables scenes to be filmed with a camera action that creates a sense of further dimension in time-lapse sequences. An apparatus designed at the National Film Board of Canada to create an apparent additional dimension in model photography by rotation of the entire camera also is described."
"High-intensity lighting (HIL) for outdoor color motion pictures requires large amounts of daylight quality light sources. Data are presented on the use of over 1600 kw of high-power xenon lamps in searchlight arrays for lighting the Saturn launch vehicle at the launch pad and through the first 1,300 ft of elevation. A tungsten-mercury lamp mix and the new metallic additive lamps may be used in the Vertical Assembly Building and other buildings. Color response is considered plus desirability of three-wavelength radiant energy measurement instead of luminance."
"The Apollo mission to the moon will be covered by television. This paper describes the lightweight, handheld TV camera that will be used by the Apollo astronauts. The camera's mission requirements, parameters, and system description are discussed. The special considerations in the selection of major designs, such as sensor, optics, power supply, and automatic light-level compensation are given. In addition, a detailed theory of operation of the video amplifier, yoke and deflection circuits, beam current regulator, and sync generator is presented. Since a prime requisite for the camera is light weight, hybrid and monolithic integrated circuits are used extensively in the camera electronics. A description of these circuits is given. Factors such as dynamic range of illumination, operation during a launch vibration environment, and handheld-sighting requirements with a narrow-angle zoom lens are discussed. The trade-offs between frame rate, resolution, and bandwidth relevant to image smear and image quality are also considered for this particular application."
"A camera system for use on a lunar orbiter is described. To provide information concerning the topography of the lunar surface the camera system provides stereoscopic pairs of images. Methods of achieving stereoscopy at the desired resolution are discussed. The relation between orbital parameters and the extent of lunar surface surveyed is considered in relation to available sensor resolution. The optical system requirements are described in terms of aperture and focal length necessary to perform the mission under the conditions of illumination, lunar albedo, resolution and signal-to-noise ratio."
"A short-duration light source to substitute for a spark gap in schlieren or shadowgram photography is described. Having a spot diameter of 4.4 mm, the flash delivers 90% of its total illumination in about 30 nanosec. The explosive system is equivalent to a small electric detonator containing 0.1–0.3 gram of PETN. The total energy of 500 to 1,500 j is sufficiently small to allow handling with relative safety. A simple container to protect operator and equipment is described. The short flash-duration and uniformly reproducible spot size of this type of light source make it attractive for stopping the motion of fast objects and shock waves."
"Photographic instruments have aided immeasurably in the acquisition of data during the reentry phase of ballistic missile tests. These include ballistic cameras for trajectory determination, spectral cameras for chemical and thermal radiation studies, and an assortment of non-dispersing, high-resolution and high-speed cine cameras for spatial and aerodynamic studies. Barnes Engineering Co. has participated in numerous reentry tests over a period of several years. This paper discusses some typical photographic systems used on these tests, detailing their choice by function and performance capabilities."
"The photometric aperture or G-number is a more realistic and accurate measure of a lens opening than the relative geometric aperture or f-number. The G-number is the ratio of the field luminance to the focal-plane illuminance. It is a single-number measurable quantity which expresses the exposure effectiveness of a lens opening taking into account all lens and mounting variables. The G-number is easy to measure, explain, use and understand. It relates camera-film exposure to sensitometric exposure, simplifies exposure calculations and the engineering of automatic exposure controlled cameras. The lens efficiency is 1/G."
"Increasing use is being made of television for medical x-ray diagnosis by amplifying the fluoroscopic image. Both image-orthicon and vidicon tubes are used with conventional and nonstandard scanning systems. Described here as an example is the Marconi 12-in, field x-ray image amplifier, incorporating 1024-line triple interlace scanning and a special 4 1/2-in. image orthicon. This amplifier permits both still and continuous kinescope recording of good quality at different film frame rates. The problems and principles involved are discussed."
"Two television systems are used to form a composite picture consisting of speech-sound analysis data and an x-ray image of the mouth and pharynx. A 16mm kinescope sound recording is made of this composite picture. Each frame of the film will have sound analysis data which consists of the output from a 22-channel speech analyzer, envelope asymmetry and total power. This appears alongside the x-ray image of the mouth and pharynx. This system has been used particularly for the study of patients with speech defects."
"Although the use of television as a means of instruction in medicine and dentistry is long past the experimental stage, there are still many areas where its potential has not been fully realized. Some applications suggested in this paper include continuing education for physicians to keep them informed of current developments in medical science; group therapy; observation of controlled experiments; and undergraduate instruction. It is suggested that video-tape records be maintained for purposes of research and analysis."
"Details of the mechanical design, optical system and electronic circuits of the Eumig Mark-S magnetic sound projector are presented. This compact 8mm projector is distinguished by the layout of its electronic circuits and by extensive automation, as well as other novel design features. It is easy to handle and moderate in production cost."
"Transient testing methods have advantages over conventional steady-state testing methods for transmitter as well as studio applications. A sine-squared transition signal not only more directly indicates the performance of the transmitter, but enables a known phase response to be maintained, with consequent picture-quality improvement. There are practical difficulties in obtaining absolute measurements, so Go-No-Go oscilloscope graticules are suggested for routine testing."
"The Society is grateful to the following authors for supplying translations of their abstracts: Maxwell A. Kerr—French, Spanish, German; J. L. Lowrance and P. M. Zucchino—Spanish, German; F. J. Bingley—French, Spanish, German; T. P. Liddiard, Jr., S. J. Jacobs and I. Kabik—French, Spanish, German; Allen Stimson—French, Spanish, German; Michael T. Romano—French, Spanish, German; Eduard Keznickl—French, Spanish, German: W. S. Barlow—French, German."
"Techniscope is a process for the photography of motion pictures for theatrical or television presentation designed to cut negative raw stock and developing cost in half. The process was conceived and developed at Technicolor Italiana by Dr. Giulio C. Monteleoni and Mr. Giovanni Ventimiglia. The picture information is recorded on 35mm negative using the standard Movietone width and two-perforations of height. In addition to the cost savings represented by this reduced negative raw stock usage, certain quality advantages are also inherent in the system. Techniscope photography is carried on with normal spherical lenses, i.e., no squeeze is employed during photography. Most of the “scope” systems in use produce some distortion. The earlier systems used for scope photography were quite unsatisfactory for close-ups because a change in object distance produced a change in squeeze ratio. Since the pictures are projected with a constant squeeze ratio, the effect on close-ups was to make actors' faces fat or, in profile, to give them long noses. Techniscope does not produce such distortion."
"This is a supplement to the initial article of the same title (Jour. SMPTE, 77: 846–850; Nov. 1962), now referred to as the Albin Proposal. A recent article, (Jour. SMPTE, 73: 883–887, Oct. 1964) “Trouble Chart for Variable Area Sound,” by Edgar A. Schuller, discloses the formation in New York City of the Joint Studio Laboratory Sound Committee under chairmanship of Homer Elder. An extensive portion of the article is an imposing list of “factors affecting quality.” The writer offers as additions to this list certain items important to the Albin Proposal since they directly affect cross-modulation. But to avoid the tendency to consider standardization a formidable task, the writer hastens to mitigate the imposing character of the list by these two steps."
"This report is an abridgment of a presentation made by William M. Brish, Board of Education of Washington County, Box 730, Hagerstown, Md., on October 2, 1964, at the Society's Technical Convention in New York. A complete report on the five-year study is available from the Board of Education, Washington County, Box 730, Hagerstown, Maryland 21740."
"Traveling-matte photography is so complex a subject that the author's intention here is only to familiarize the reader with some of the basic concepts and problems. Personal experience, skill and knowledge of the most intricate phases of photographic science on the part of individuals have led to unique and often patentable methods of achieving the same type of composite photography in different ways."
"Long focal length lenses were required for the television cameras at the national political conventions. By operating on the electron optics in the image section of the image orthicon to produce controlled magnification of the electronic image on the target, it was possible to simulate very long focal length lenses with relatively inexpensive shorter focal length lenses without any apparent degradation in picture quality."
"A black-and-white camera negative-monobath processing system has been designed for use in the Eastman Viscomat Processor, Model 20. Processing of the film is accomplished by the application of a thin layer of viscous monobath at 130 F in an atmosphere saturated with water vapor. With machine speed of 18 ft/min, the entire process takes approximately 2 min dry-to-dry. The photographic quality obtained with the system compares favorably with that provided by conventional processing."
"Techniques of photographic instrumentation having special application to the Titan II program have been devised. A series of photographs illustrates certain problems and situations encountered during the flight test program. It is noted that a “fringe benefit” of photographic techniques is the possibility of recording the unexpected."
"In missile test operations, photography is an invaluable tool, enabling the recording of data under hazardous conditions and the preservation of pictorial data for later study. Closed-circuit television can augment and extend the usefulness of photography in a missile-test situation. Closed-circuit television has been used in various ways with magnetic and photographic recording equipment in missile system testing and related research projects at the Naval Missile Center, Point Mugu, Calif."
"The Conclusions of the XXII Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the Program of the Party, as regards cinematography, indicated large and important problems—to make possible the education of the Soviet people in the spirit of high ideals and loyalty to communism by means of ciné art."
"An abridgment of the author's revision of a paper presented on May 1, 1962, at the Society's Technical Conference in Los Angeles by Mervin E. Fulton, Fulton Productions, Inc., P.O. Box 980, Tulare, Calif. The revision was submitted on May 27, 1964."
"The dimensions of motion-picture film and the shapes of perforations have followed a logical development over 30 or more years. Traced here is some of this history, so that we can better understand why the American Standards Association recognizes certain standards today. For example, the need for accurate printing processes has led to the introduction of dimensional standards with close tolerances. Improvements in the plastics of which film supports are made, coupled with the use of continuous printers, have led to the introduction of standards which discriminate between products differing only by 0.2% in one dimension, since that small difference is recognized as an important matter in the economical attainment of good quality in printing. Other industry demands have been met over the years: e.g., today's CS perforation (introduced to meet the needs of the CinemaScope development in wide-screen presentation) gives more available area for soundtracks. Also, the 16mm film used today is manufactured slightly narrower than that of earlier years because of improved dimensional stability of the base. Furthermore, the needs of other processes involving films with widths varying from 8mm to 70mm have been recognized in various new standards. It is expected that there will be further changes as the industry develops."
"Surveys and subjective tests were made seeking a consistent method for the day-to-day adjustment of picture monitors in order to secure relatively constant picture conditions. Expressions were derived giving the desired degree of uniformity of ambient light falling on a row of monitors and also giving the white-to-ambient and black-to-ambient luminance relations producing the highest degree in similarity of appearance between monitors in different ambient light. Practical applications of the above expressions were sought and guide lines were derived from a survey of operational preferences of many practicing technicians."
"The use of 2 × 2-in. transparent slides in television broadcasting has been hampered by two major shortcomings, viz., difficulty in registry of the pictorial material with the television camera scanned raster, and the inability to rapidly prepare slides from material of all types, including original artwork. Mounting, processing and projection equipment are described which provide registry equal in precision to that of 35mm film, and permit the preparation of slides in a time limited only by the speed of a Polaroid camera."
"The basic principles and advantages of recording and storing optical images in the form of equivalent electrical charge patterns on a special kind of flexible tape are presented. An experimental model of a frame-type camera system which was designed to demonstrate the feasibility of this method of recording is described. Characteristics of the camera and its method of operation are discussed. The paper describes the “prepare” or “erase” process, the “writing” or recording process and the “readout” process. The results of preliminary tests which are reported verify the validity of the basic concepts involved in this kind of video recording system."
"The cinespectrograph records a reentry event as a consecutive series of spectrographic records. Wavelength and time resolution, wavelength coverage and running time are the principal performance factors. Frame rates of from 10 to 30 frames/sec and a capacity of 1800 frames are considered adequate for reentry observations. Spectral performance is affected by target size and the accuracy of target tracking."
"Plastics or organic polymeric materials have frequently been considered and studied for their potential usefulness in fabricating optical elements more economically than when using glass with conventional grinding and polishing methods. In fact, large quantities of acrylic-type, injection-molded lenses are presently being employed in low-cost still cameras where relatively small lens diameter and aperture produce thoroughly satisfactory pictorial results with optics formed from such plastic materials. Aside from refractive and transmissive optical components, the use of reflective elements or mirrors has become of increasing importance and interest, particularly in instrumentation optics covering the visible spectrum and portions of the ultraviolet and infrared spectrums of the electromagnetic radiation. First-surface mirror optics, using replication techniques, can be fabricated by various processes, such as electroforming, plastic casting and plastic precision molding.1–7 The data presented in this paper relate primarily to work performed at Electro-Optical Systems (EOS) on replication of mirror optics by plastic precision molding."
"This paper discusses the engineering and scientific aspects of a spacecraft television system designed to perform preliminary topographic reconnaissance of portions of the surface of Mars. The system consists of a single camera, shutter system with a specially developed slow-scan vidicon. Engineering mechanization is discussed in terms of the mission constraints and desired scientific results. Test and calibration techniques are described and typical system performance capabilities illustrated."
"Many characteristics of a lens can be evaluated using a method based on changes in the light distribution which take place in the image plane as the image of high-contrast target is moved through focus. A photoconductive surface in the image plane measures this information in the image, without having to resort to conventional photographic techniques or the human eye. Basically, the output of the instrument indicates the degree of sharpness of image. Thus, by locating the plane of best focus by instrument very exactly, the characteristics that can be measured are: the optical distances, and variations thereof at various wavelengths, in the visible and in part of the infrared region; and particular aberrations of a lens. Indirectly, the instrument indicates the resolving ability of the lens; thus qualitative comparisons between lenses can be made with this method."
"Television mobile units may be classified in three main groups: large, completely self-contained control centers with full production facilities; medium-sized, live-camera units with audio facilities and microwave transmitter or small video-tape recorder; and small, highly mobile one-camera units with microphone, transmitter or small video-tape recorder. In the design of all these units conventional electronic components and carrier vehicles have been used. Designs featuring new integrated electronic and vehicle packaging are proposed."
"At the laboratory of Film-Teknik AB, Solna, Sweden, machines to operate in daylight and print and process motion-picture films have been designed. In planning a new building for the laboratory, daylight operating was considered throughout. Working conditions have been considerably improved, the supervision and control of work have been greatly facilitated and a higher-quality product has been achieved."
"Projection performance depends greatly upon the diameter to which the film has been wound on a reel or core prior to projection, and the effect is more obvious for film wound emulsion-out. Screen-image quality differs considerably between the head and core ends of a theater print, but if the film is kept wound emulsion-in, the focus stability is substantially improved, particularly in the larger, higher-intensity installations. These effects have been examined in a continuous series of practical studies. Extrapolations are suggested from the 35mm experiments to all projection formats."
"A tutorial review of silver-recovery methods includes the chemical methods of precipitation, metallic replacement and ion exchange as well as the electrolytic methods employing either low or high current density levels. Various methods of solution agitation in electrolytic cells are described and illustrated with existing units. A survey of present-day silver recovery systems in five commercial motion-picture laboratories indicates that silver recovery should be considered an important element in the proper economic management of any processing laboratory."
"The problem of photographic exposure has been with us for a long time. The range of values of luminance in a scene in nature, or even on a lighted set, is often, if not most of the time, greater than that which can be reasonably reproduced by the film. And yet the latter must give an illusion of the complete reality in the ultimate screen image. The artist photographer must balance many ambient conditions and arrive at one number, to give the required exposure. — Considerable ingenuity has gone into combining the many facets of this balance in a simple routine process or mechanical computer that can give the answer unequivocally and reliably. The following four papers attack various phases of the problem and come up with contributions toward its solution. Considering the complexities of the situation and the points of view of the contributors, we may expect discussion on this for some time to come."
"An illuminator system designated XTL (Xenon Twin Light) for projection of 35mm and 70mm motion pictures uses a regulated solid-state power supply and an illuminator with a split optical system. Maximum light output and a uniform flat light field are achieved with the optical arrangement. The XTL system supplies up to 25% more usable light compared with equivalent wattage systems."
"An optical printer has been designed around a commercially available camera and projector. Among the special features are a belt-drive mechanism, variable-speed drive motor, an electronic programer which controls both the camera and the projector, an automatic fader, and a large, specially designed optical bench. Modular construction permits rapid changes in format and convenient access for repair and adjustment with minimum down-time."
"A 35mm reflex camera system has been developed, incorporating closed-circuit television for electronic viewfinding, remote monitoring and video taping for instant playback. The development problems and their solutions are discussed with a description of the system in its final form. The uses and advantages of the system in motion-picture production are also discussed."
"The introduction of high-quality video switchers in the last few years has created a need for a completely solid-state fader-mixer amplifier with high quality specifications and low maintenance requirements. The circuits described have been incorporated into a new remote-controlled fader-mixer amplifier with color processing capability and featuring plug-in interchangeability. Only standard transistors are used and no thermal or light-dependent devices are employed."
"A positive, electric film brake system, designed and built by the author, achieves success in eliminating the danger of damage to film entering a processing machine, when the film is stopped for splicing or repairs."
"This paper surveys the difficulties which arise during the making of high-quality recordings of television images on cine film and describes the methods currently used by the British Broadcasting Corp. to overcome them."
"Using a high-speed rotating mirror to sweep the image, we photographed the light output from a helium-neon gas maser with and without intracavity modulation at the locking frequency fo, which corresponds to the reciprocal of the round-trip travel time for light within the maser, and which also equals the cavity mode spacing. When the maser was locked, the photographic record showed regular pulses. The light level was 1,500 times the minimum required to record individual dots. When the maser was not locked, the photographs showed beats at harmonics of the mode spacing. The amplitudes of the beat frequencies varied most irregularly from moment to moment, sometimes changing noticeably in less than half a microsecond and radically in less than a millisecond. — We found no evidence of reciprocity failure for Eastman Kodak Type 1F emulsion to the accuracy of the energy measurements (i.e., to a factor of 2 up or down from the mean), for exposure times from 1 nanosec to 30 sec."
"This optical device consists of a 10:1 zoom lens, viewfinder, camera platform and independent TV camera compartment. It allows taking motion pictures in black-and-white or color, at the same time transmitting an ITV picture to the control room. This permits broadcast TV-type production directly on 16mm film, avoiding the results of kinescope photography."
"A synchronous sound system has been constructed using a standard 16mm magnetic film projector and a 16mm motion-picture camera. The system is low in cost yet adequate in quality to fit the needs of small-scale filmmakers."
"A punched-tape programer has been added to the motorized animation stand previously described (Journal, November 1964) to provide practically complete automation. All camera exposure, compound moves, light and shutter functions are preprogramed, allowing an error-free operation over extended sequences without costly operator time."
"A four-language motion-picture projection system was designed for the Third United Nations Atoms for Peace Conference. A double-system 16mm projector was modified to play four language soundtracks. These were fed to the theaters through appropriate distribution equipment. Translating, recording, and editing the foreign language soundtracks posed an unusual problem and special production procedures were adopted to cope with the difficulty."
"The Scopitone is an automatic self-contained sound film projection system intended either for coin-in-slot operation for public entertainment, or for instructional uses. It incorporates several novel mechanical features that permit the rapid selection of one of thirty-six available films, and repeated projections with minimum damage to the prints."
"The Society is grateful to the following authors for supplying translations of their abstracts: L. E. Hargrove and J. S. Courtney-Pratt—French, Spanish, German; Frank G. Back—French, German; John W. Kausch—French, Spanish, German; Stanley J. Andrews, Jr. and George W. Tressel—French, Spanish, German; Roger Duval—French."
"A report of the technical decisions reached at the Fifth Meeting of ISO/TC 36, Cinematography, held at Milan, Italy, October 11–15, 1965. The history and organization of the Technical Committee are briefly described and the current proposals, recommendations and resolutions listed."
"Gabor's wavefront reconstruction process allows a three-dimensional scene to be recorded on, and re-imaged from, a two-dimensional surface. This paper describes the theory behind this method and discusses its possible application to a three-dimensional television system. The results show that such a system is possible in principle, but that considerable advances in technology will be required to obtain a commercially acceptable system."
"Efficient camera timing marker blocks with dual light sources, one spark and one neon lamp, for installation in 16 and 35mm high-speed cameras have been designed and produced. These timing-light sources can be operated continuously in short bursts or pulsed at cycling times of 1,000 to 50,000 cps. They are positioned to produce intense timing marks with sharp leading edges outside and between the perforations on either side of 16mm and 35mm film. They are designed with small dimensions for fitting into most high-speed cameras. — The rear source consists of a small spark-gap assembly designed to fire from a 5,000- to 10,000-v d-c pulse. This spark gap produces an intense spot of light at pulse frequencies of from 1,000 to 10,000 cps with the pulse duration of 12 to 30μsec. The resulting high-contrast image is readily observable and measurable on medium-speed black-and-white and color films, with the cameras operating at at 16mm frame rates of 8,000 frames/sec (200 ft/sec) and higher. — The neon source utilizes the NE2J or BA1C neon lamps which, when pulsed with short-duration pulses at input voltages of 200 to 300 v, produce bright images at frequencies of 1,000 to 50,000 cps. Extremely sharp edges and light intensities of an order of magnitude over conventional systems are obtained with a special f/1.3 illuminating and projection lens system designed to collect the light from the neon electrode and produce a bright image of a slit on the film."
"An infrared time-lapse photographic method is proposed as a tool to investigate tunneling of Tribolium (flour beetles). Integral to the method is an eighth-inch thick transparent Plexiglas cage, in which flour and flour beetles are placed, and through which infrared light is shone. Tunnels are recorded on 16mm infrared film."
"Study of chip formation during metal machining is accomplished by converting a standard horizontal milling machine into a planer, providing an auxiliary light source and photographing the cutting action through a microscope. A single point tool is mounted on the overarm support and the table feed is used to move the work along under the tool. The camera is focused on the tool tip and in this way the cutting of various metals is studied."
"Gas and airflow patterns in blast-furnace stoves and open-hearth furnaces were simulated by means of suitable fluids in transparent-plastic scale models. The patterns were visualized by means of chemical indicators, birefringent liquids and tracer particles. Motion pictures were useful, not only for records of patterns and aid in analyzing data, but also for time magnification of events too rapid for visual observation."
"This survey of high-speed photographic equipment was compiled as a by-product of the planning for the photographic instrumentation of the new 1.75 million gallon hydroballistics facilities at the U.S. Naval Ordnance Laboratory in White Oak, Maryland. The cameras were surveyed at 124 locations. The work was done by David Fatora, a Photographic Technologist in the Photographic Division of the Laboratory."
"One of the major problems in television and motion-picture photography is the elimination of picture movement caused by unsteadiness of the camera mount or irregular gyrations of the camera. In order to reduce such annoying and objectionable degradation in the resultant program product, it has been common practice to resort to expensive rigid camera mounts or, where time and budget have not permitted, restrictions on the type of shots and maximum focal length of lenses. A system is described wherein, rather than stabilizing or isolating the camera and lens assembly from vibrations or other extraneous external forces, the correction required is accomplished by introducing an appropriate bending of the optical path so as to follow the movement of the camera relative to the scene being televised or photographed."
"A compact, general-purpose camera has been designed for both studio and field use. It features zoom optics, both manual and servo, the new Plumbicon tube, transistor circuitry, plug-in printed cards and building block construction. Performance figures include 100-to-1 contrast ratio, 700-line horizontal center limiting resolution with 600 in the corners, better than 40-db signal-to-noise ratio at the camera output, the broadcast-quality pictures at 10-ft-c incident illumination. Pictures are obtainable in 10 sec from switch-on, and the camera chain is stabilized in 25 sec from a 20 F cold start. The design includes cable compensation up to 3000 ft."
"New color cameras have been designed for optimum use of the Plumbicon tube which is now standard and in production. Research is proceeding toward higher resolution tubes with a broader spectral response and even greater sensitivity. The camera has zoom servoed optics, a novel beamsplit prism block, transistor circuitry, small dimensions and low power consumption. The long linear transfer characteristic of the Plumbicon and the absence of shading enable excellent color balance to be obtained over very wide levels of scene illumination and reflectance factors. Broadcast-quality pictures are obtainable at 150-ft-c incident illumination at f/4 (equivalent to depth of field of f/8 for the image orthicon), while color performance holds below 25 ft-c."
"The Marconi Mark IV 4½-in. image-orthicon camera was introduced to the SMPTE in 1959. Further development of the 4½-in. image-orthicon camera includes the use of semiconductors, a single (zoom) lens and automatic timing. Some consideration is given to the design and development of a new color camera."
"The latest color film camera, TK-27, is the second of a series employing standard transistorized modules. It has been designed to provide better stability, reliability and picture quality than present tube equipments. The similarity of circuits used in the various broadcast equipments has enhanced the “common module” approach; such concepts are extended to the TK-27. Considerations in design such as monitoring, automatic operation, ease of maintenance, and overall operating flexibility are discussed in this paper."
"After the success of the Ranger 7 television mission, an exhaustive study was undertaken to determine whether the performance of the succeeding Ranger payloads could be made to surpass that of Ranger 7. In this paper, (1) the effect of thermal-vacuum environment on camera focus is found to be substantial and a method of compensation for this effect is discussed; (2) the focusing methods used on Ranger 7 are evaluated; and (3) the improvements in focusing based on (1) and (2) above are discussed."
"The double knife-edge modification of the classical “Z”-type Toepler schlieren system to provide a symmetrical double knife-edge cutoff at the schlieren image is illustrated and described. Experimental results of the use of this improved diagnostic technique for the visualization of low-density hypersonic flow field schlieren are included. Single and double knife-edge schlieren photographs made with the same schlieren system at similar low-density hypersonic flow field conditions are compared and the advantages and disadvantages of both techniques are discussed. The relationship of light-source image size to double knife-edge separation and its effect on schlieren photograph exposure quality are also illustrated and discussed."
"Existing magnetic recorders and re-recorders may be improved to equal or exceed the performance of new equipment by methods reduced to practice for the first time. More than 70-db subjective signal-to-noise ratio is consistently recorded and reproduced with reduced dropouts and less distortion. Transient response is greatly improved. Recording head employs novel focused gap field and heavier bias at higher frequency. Associated circuitry uses silicon transistors for optimum performance without loss of thermal stability. Applications are discussed."
"Descriptions and performance data are given of current thermoplastic recorders including a 16mm tape, a 8mm tape and a continuous-loop recorder. Thermoplastic recording in color and a wide-bandwidth 1,029-line video recording are described. Systems for electrical readout of pictorial thermoplastic recordings are also presented."
"The most useful thermoplastic recording tape system consists of three parts: (1) a high-melting transparent base film coated with (2) a transparent conductor which in turn is coated with (3) a thin film of a low-melting thermoplastic. These composite tapes are described. Some of the interrelationships of the electron beam and the recording medium which establish limits on system performance are discussed. The properties required of a good recording tape are outlined and the new organic thermoplastics developed for the purpose are disclosed."
"Phenidone* and hydroquinone are removed from the developer solutions and separated from each other by selective solvent extraction and selective oxidation. Each compound is analyzed with no detectable bias from the other. The procedure can be completed in less than 30 min using simple laboratory glassware. Sharp visual end points are obtained on fresh and used solutions with reagents commonly used in control laboratories. The same approach has been successfully applied to a hydroquinone-Phenidone B† monobath."
"A new print film, Type 7387, has been introduced to replace Eastman Reversal Color Print Film, Type 5269, for making prints from 16mm reversal film. The film has improved color reproduction, lower graininess, better sound reproduction characteristics, and an increase in printing speed by a factor of about two. A new process, designated as RCP-2, is required for the new film. Machines now operating on Process RCP-1 (for Type 5269) can be converted to the new process. Improved soundtrack application can be achieved with equipment modifications."
"A relief matrix can be dyed and substantially dried and then brought into adherent contact with a dry blank, following which the sandwich may be sectioned on the microtome. The dry sections can then be photographed through the microscope with a 35mm reflex camera. By introducing a drop of water, swelling is initiated at a convenient moment and dye transfer commences simultaneously. In this way, the mode of migration of dye can be observed and photographed, as well as the reactions of different matrices, blanks and dyes during a transfer operation. Attention is drawn to the advantage of using swollen sections for microscopic examinations of photographic layers."
"When a sample of magnetic recording material is pressed against the hypotenuse of a right-angle prism, total internal reflection is destroyed where intimate contact occurs. This effect has been utilized in a unique instrument for observing, measuring and photographing the extent and distribution of the contact area obtained between samples of magnetic recording materials and an idealized flat surface."
"A 1,000-chair ride takes visitors through the Bell System Pavilion at the New York World's Fair on a ride path lined with rear-projected 16mm motion pictures integrated with three-dimensional stage settings. Each chair is equipped with a special monaural sound system which is synchronized with the ride. Sixty-five special xenon projectors show continuous motion-picture film loops."
"Canada has had a long association with the development of the motion picture industry."
"The production of a motion picture to teach the diagnosis of a common congenital heart defect correctable by surgery required the clear demonstration of certain heart sounds and murmurs. Butterworth has shown that learning the difficult skill of cardiac auscultation is facilitated by bringing the student's eyes to the aid of his ears through use of an oscilloscope coupled with a sound amplifier connected to stethoscopes. The motion-picture medium, with its manipulatability of picture and sound, offered an opportunity to improve upon the efficiency of this teaching method. Problems inherent in the subject and the limitations of reproduction with 16mm optical sound are presented and solutions described."
"A 16mm motion-picture camera mounted on a helmet has been used to record simultaneously the scene being viewed by the wearer as well as the point of eye fixation on that scene. The technique has been tested as a means of demonstrating search courses in the survey and interpretation of x-ray films. The analysis of the examiner's eye movements during the viewing of cineradiography may have value in trying to understand and explain the increase in depth awareness brought about by object rotation. A closed-circuit television system was used for the distant transmission of radiographic images, the scanning and search of which were remotely controlled by an observer looking at a display monitor."
"The construction and insertion of special plastic and glass windows or chambers into the ears of Laboratory Lop rabbits and optical and photographic equipment employed for high-magnification standard or time-lapse color cinephotomicroscopy of living cells and tissues without anesthesia are described in this paper. Using these time-lapse cinephotomicrographic records, the locomotion in vivo of white blood cells (leukocytes) and cancer cells (transplantable ascitic V2 carcinoma cells) of the rabbit have been analyzed."
"Experimental procedures and conceptual corollaries in laboratory pharmacology have been produced for 8mm sound display. First, a 16mm master is produced; then a commercial laboratory makes 8mm prints with magnetic strip added. Intended for self-instruction, the completed film is offered for viewing via the Fairchild Mark IV 8mm projector. A linear program is used in conjunction with the film, completing an educational system tentatively called “Cinematic Self-Instruction.”"
"Medical motion pictures made in hospitals are usually record-type shots with straight-cut editing; the various methods that lead to a smooth-running, interesting film are usually not employed. Prevention of such flaws as jump cuts, confusion from crossing stage lines, and the loss of identification due to time and position changes are discussed."
"A method is described whereby deep surgical repairs can be photographed as though the camera were immediately above the incision, when in fact it is to one side and out of the way. The method employs a reflex motion-picture camera equipped with a long focal length lens (90 mm) in front of which is a front surfaced mirror mounted on a lightweight frame extending approximately two feet in front of the camera lens; immediately behind and below the mirror is a quartz-iodine lamp with a colour temperature of 3200 K. To ensure correct reorientation after the film has been made, it is essential that during photography, the camera be placed north, south, east, or west of the patient and never at any point in between."
"A dual camera-monitor system has been developed to overcome one of the chief difficulties encountered in teaching technical courses by closed-circuit television. The problem of displaying a diagram while developing equations is now solved by feeding the two views separately to adjacent monitors in the viewing rooms. Faculty reaction and student response have been generally favorable. The results of controlled experiments indicate that engineering courses with large enrollments can be effectively taught by this means."
"The silent/sound film format provides a new kind of teaching and training instrument, to be used with new methodology. The picture must be a true silent picture, and the soundtrack must be integrated with the visual action. Teaching powers of the silent medium are recapitulated. Four teaching and training group-use routines are described, and the suitability of types of subject material is delineated."
"Because of the need for a low-production-cost, mass communications medium for the overseas work of the U.S. State Department and the need for a low-cost film facility at Arizona State University's educational television station, KAET, the use of 8mm, both silent and sound-on-film, was studied. During the six month research project, various audio, video and production methods and equipment were tested for compatibility with the television system. The result was an economical educational television system using 8mm film and TV techniques. The system is feasible and will be tested for a year beginning in January 1966 under the constant demand of a production schedule."
"A double-system 8mm recording capability has been devised and is in use at Orange Coast College. With this method, costs have been reduced to about 50/min, including materials and labor. Complete equipment was developed for about $5,000. The system is used to record lectures in large class groups after which the films are placed in the library. Students who have missed a lecture, or wish to review, can view the films at look-listen stations. A research program is in progress to assess the effectiveness in terms of increased learning."
"The color accuracy of many existing motion-picture films has been found to be inadequate for color television broadcasting. The causes of error in color rendering have been investigated and a means has been devised to permit electrical correction during the television scanning process (Provisional British Patent Application No. 32529/64). Differential adjustments of the color-separation signals are used to compensate for the errors in any particular film."
"A programable integrating image-orthicon television chain has been developed for application to the Stratoscope II balloon-borne astronomical telescope. The equipment is designed as the primary image-recording system for the Stratoscope and exhibits linear integration of low-light images for periods of over one hour. Among other features the camera includes a flexible control system permitting automatic or manual cycling between various modes of operation, e.g., preparation, writing, readout and continuous running."
"The image-orthicon camera tube has shown great flexibility as a sensitive conversion device displaying uniform reciprocity between brightness and illumination time for exposures ranging from a fraction of a second to several hours. The effects of the operating cycle, scan rate, and scene content upon system performance is discussed. The tradeoff between present tube design and performance is examined as are future plans and prospects."
"A special-purpose film recorder has been designed for recording Mariner 64 television images on 35mm film. Design problems associated with the slow-scan nature of the recorded information are discussed with regard to scope phosphors, film types and processing. Recorder operation is described, along with application information in support of Mariner Mars 1964 spacecraft TV instrumentation."
"Beginning in 1966, NASA will put a series of unmanned photographic spacecraft into orbit around the moon. These will photograph fairly large areas of the lunar surface at high resolution. Exposure is on film, which is processed on board and then read out for transmission to earth. These received signals are recorded on film by means of kinescopes at the tracking stations. The general design and operation of this photographic system are described."
"Rectification of oblique aerial photographs is one means used to obtain contours of the base surge formed by an underwater nuclear explosion. An analytic photogrammetric method of rectification, based on the visible horizon and altitude of the photo aircraft, is described. This method gives the position of any point on the photograph in terms of its coordinates in a rectangular grid system on the water surface. The supplemental information needed to rectify an oblique photograph also is discussed."
"The combination of an image dissector and a flying-spot scanner has advantages over either of these two devices alone. The combination requires much less average illumination than the image dissector used alone, and the combination has higher resolution, less noise, and less stringent phosphor decay requirements than the flying-spot scanner alone."
"In the laboratory inspection of answer prints, it is frequently desirable to indicate timing and color corrections to improve specific scenes. Locating scenes in long shows, or in those with numerous short scenes, has been facilitated by an electronic luminous footage counter developed at Calvin Productions. This counter may be operated with a modification of a conventional commercial projector. The construction and operation of this footage counter are described and similar uses with selsyn operation for sound recording are discussed."
"When motion pictures are printed on vesicular film stock, development is by dry heat and the process is negative/positive. Newer systems which may find use in the motion-picture industry comprise full reversal processing for positive/positive copying, and a new film which requires only a single overall exposure to a flash-tube for its processing, development and fixing together. The film gives direct positive to positive copy, has high resolution and capability for several generation copying, and contrast is controlled by input to the flash."
"Details of new, patented film-handling aids which permit amateur and professional film and tape users to handle, project and store motion-picture films or tape without conventional reels and cans are described. How this is done with complete safety and with important economies in labor, shipping costs, editorial facilities and storage requirements is explained."
"A method for splicing recorded videotape is outlined in step-by-step detail. This method differs from that covered in SMPTE Recommended Practice, RP 5-1964 in the location of the cut on the videotape. RP-5 indicates the splice is to be made at the guard band marked by a frame pulse. The method described locates the splice two guard bands “don stream” which places it in the guard band between two tracks containing vertical sync information. Splices made in this manner produce scene changes with considerably less transients in the television signal than by the method of RP-5."
"This is the seventh in a series (consisting of the survey report of 1959 and the five Interim Reports which followed) reporting on selected financial and statistical developments of the non-theatrical motion-picture and audio-visual field in the United States. It brings up to date (as of January 1, 7965) this information, and accordingly supersedes “Nontheatrical Films — Interim Report No. 5,” published in the August 1964 Journal (pp. 6757ndash;678)."
"The Advance Program is as complete and accurate as possible. The arrangement of the Advance Program is tentative, however, because some papers received at deadline could be handled editorially only by adding arbitrarily to sessions. Other papers for which the Program Chairman has found time in certain sessions will appear in the Final Program. In the Final Program, entire sessions may be differently scheduled and it is recommended that members who can attend only part of the Conference should inquire a week before the Conference by telephoning Society Headquarters in New York (212 TN 7-5410) or Program Chairman Gerald G. Graham at the National Film Board in Montreal (514 RI 7-5511)."
"The advantages of a planographic dye transfer matrix over a conventional relief matrix include improved image sharpness and reduced image graininess in the resulting print, and greater flexibility in construction of the raw stock and its use by avoiding the requirement for exposure through the film base. A plano-graphic matrix may be prepared by reversal processing of the stock after exposure, followed by toning the reversal silver image. The dye resist formed by copper toning of this image is believed to be a semipermeable membrane of copper ferrocyanide which forms at the interface between the silver-gelatin “non-image” and the gelatin “image” or at the surface of the film. A mechanism is proposed for the formation of this membrane and experimental evidence in support of this mechanism is presented. The importance of such factors as Cu/Fe ratio, pH, properties of the stabilizing ligand, and nature of the anion in the toning solution is discussed."
"High-speed framing cameras, which make use of rotating mirrors acting as field stops, exhibit a changing field of view and frame size as the mirror rotates. The use of the frame edge as a reference line in data analysis from the film requires that the magnitude of these effects be known. A discussion of them and calculation of their magnitude for a Beckman & Whitley Model 189 Framing Camera are given."
"Remote-controlled photography, under certain conditions and for certain purposes, is more accurate than that possible for a cameraman. The system described here, presently used chiefly in photoinstrumentation work, depends on such relationships between the subject and the camera as time, event, position and repetition rate. Minor variations will adapt the system to most cameras. Methods of operation and variations required for individual problems are discussed."
"A Zeiss Ultraphot II Microscope was successfully modified for time-lapse cinematography. This entailed the construction of a stand to hold an Arriflex 16mm camera, a mirror device to deflect the light beam to the side and a special culture chamber and incubator. The reasons for the adoption of certain specific methods are discussed."
"Computer animation gives to filmmaking the advantages of computing, i.e., only one cycle of a repetitive action need be programed; one program generates a whole family of films; and successful programs build into a library for subsequent use. Moreover, the scientist can now communicate directly through the film medium in his “natural” language of mathematics. This suggests the possibility of more imaginative educational films. It is recognized that computer animation has certain limitations. For example, cartooning by computer would probably be unprofitable. Four computer-made films which illustrate these points are available on loan."
"A brief description is given of the test waveforms currently used in television testing. The division of the possible waveform distortions into two distinct types led to the decision to design two separate test waveform generators, a sine-squared pulse and bar generator for linear waveform distortion measurements and a gray-scale generator to measure nonlinearity. A brief overall description is given of these two units together with a more detailed explanation of some of the more important parts of the circuits. Finally, a brief description is given of the measurements which may be carried out on both monochrome and color television systems using these two units."
"Note: “Creating an Industry: A Case Study in the Management of Television Innovation” is a master's thesis submitted by Robert C. Bitting, Jr., at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1963. The author chose the Radio Corporation of America as the organization most suitable for special study. Much of his thesis is concerned with problems of management, but of more general interest is his anecdotal approach to the history of the Radio Corporation of America and of the development of television. The following article is comprised of Chapters II and III from the thesis, in somewhat abbreviated form."
"Although magnetic recording is widely used for a variety of purposes, little is known about the actual process by which signals are recorded in the thin magnetic coating of the tape. A better understanding of the process is being sought through study with the aid of a model of the tape and recording head which is scaled up 5000:1 and in which the distribution of the magnetization over the thickness of the coating is measured."
"This Standard is issued to supersede 58 IRE 3. SI, \"IRE Standards on Audio Techniques:Definitions of Terms, 1958,\" to include the definitions of the 1958 Standards and to adddefinitions of terms for which it was felt a need exists for establishment of precise and concisemeanings. Some of the previous standard definitions have been modified to accommodatechanges in usage.The definitions included in this Standard all refer specifically to the use of the terms inaudio techniques. Many of these terms are used in other fields with different meanings, andit is assumed that definitions for these terms in those fields are or will be included in Standardsissued by other committees. Therefore, in general, the modifying phrase \"In Audio Techniques\"has been omitted except in certain cases where it appears to be particularly necessaryto avoid confusion."
"A close-talking pressure-type microphone is anacoustic transducer which is intended for use in close proximity to the lips of the talker and is either hand-held or boom-mounted. Various types of microphonesare currently used for close-talking applications. These include carbon, dynamic, magnetic, piezoelectric, electrostrictive and condenser types. Each of these microphones has only one side of its diaphragm exposed to sound waves, and its electricoutput substantially corresponds to the instantaneoussound pressure of the impressed sound wave. Since a close-talking microphone is used in the near sound field produced by a person's mouth, it is necessary when measuring the performance of such microphones to utilize a sound source which approximates the characteristics of the human sound generator."
"The object of this Test Procedure is to establish a method for estimating by comparison the life expectancy of specialty transformer insulation systems under actual operating conditions. The electrical insulation of specialty transformers is made up of many different components selected to withstand the widely different electric, mechanical, and thermal stresses occurring in different parts of the structure. How long an insulation system will be serviceable depends on the effectiveness of the physical support for the insulation, and the severity of the forces acting on it, as well as on the materials themselves and the service environment. Therefore, the length of useful life of the insulation system will depend on the way that its individual components are arranged, their interactions upon each other, and the contribution of each component to the electrical and mechanical integrity of the system."
"This document presents standard letter symbols for quantities used in the field of thermoelectric devices."
"The following topics are dealt with: electric installations; textile machinery; machine wiring; motor-control equipment; conductors; electric stop-motion equipment; direct-current equipment; grounded circuits; equipment grounding; junction boxes; raceways; conduits; overcurrent; control circuits; undervoltage protection; equipment identification."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents from this conference."
"Presents the author index from this conference."
"In less than 20 years the encapsulation of electronic components and circuits has developed from a laboratory tool to a high production operation. Considerable advances have been made, and will continue to be made, in materials, processes, processing technique, equipment, industry know-how. and design. Many problems have been solved, but many still remain. These include: exotherm, shrinkage, thermal shock, thermal conductivity, incompatibility, and the effect of encapsulation on electrical parameters of the circuit. Encapsulation by transfer molding has in less than 7 years developed as the fastest growing area. The potting of transformers with casting resins is developing into a large volume business."
"At the Sylvania Electronic Systems—West facility in Mountain View, California, considerable interest has been generated in the fabrication of lightweight electronic devices for use in a wide variety of electronic systems in the microwave frequency spectrum. Such devices would be useful applied to systems where space and weight are primary considerations and where the dielectric losses incurred by their use can be tolerated. The dielectric materials to be used would have controlled dielectric constants higher than those conventionally encountered."
"The demand for higher reliability electric and electronic components has increased the usage of impregnated coils. This paper describes a new mold-free encapsulation process based on a porous web pressure-sensitive adhesive tape being used both as interlayer insulation and coil cover, that can be applied efficiently with semi-automatic taping machines. The economies gained by utilizing this system should expand the use of impregnated coils to those areas where the quality advantages of an encapsulated system are desirable; yet, the cost has been prohibitive."
"These results show that pyrolysis of a surprisingly small amount of a resin can create an explosive environment in a confined system. While the polyimide resin has the greatest thermal stability of the three resins tested, less of this resin must be pyrolyzed in order to create an explosive environment."
"1. Adverse effects on embedded components appear to be mainly due to localized stresses on portions of the component and are not due to hydraulic forces; therefore, true effects of embedment stresses can only be determined on the components themselves. 2. Embedment stresses can be obtained directly from embedded components such as capacitors and ferrite cores. 3. Component embedment stress measurements can be used to directly select the best embedment materials, stress relief coatings and processing techniques and physical orientation of component. 4. Capacitor component embedment stress measurements were us ed to determine the following parameters: (a) Stresses from embedment material are reduced by many factors—among them are law modulus down to the lowest operating temperature, law coefficient of thermal expansion, law cure temperature, poor bonding to the substrate, and low compressive strength. (b) Among embedment materials producing the lowest stresses on components are urethane and silicone elastomers, foam-in-place resins, and syntactic epoxy foams. (c) Many factors are involved in the selection of conformal coatings which relieve embedment stresses. Among these factors are high coefficient of thermal expansion, law modulus of the coating down to the lowest operating temperature and poor bond of the coating to at least one interface. With a law modulus, bond to the interfaces is not detrimental. (d) Many types of conformal coatings can be used to reduce embedded component stresses to an acceptable level. Among the best coatings materials are silicone, urethane and polysulfide elastomers. Rigid conformal coatings exhibiting good bond properties increase stress effects on embedded capacitors. (e) The position of a component relative to its assembly boards is an important factor of protection from embedment stresses. The worst orientation tested was capacitors mounted perpendicular to a single board."
"Insulation technology is growing at an incredible pace. New insulations, new variations of old materials, new manufacturing methods, and new applications are constantly being developed."
"Efficient, reliable, and economical electrical equipment—as with all engineering structures—are dependent upon the proper, useful exploitation of materials and designs. The inherent properties and performance of materials must be carefully examined and utilized to produce improved structures."
"The switchgear insulation market has been limited to the thermosetting materials of the past because of their load stability, thermal endurance, inflammability and are resistance. Negative properties of the thermosets include low impact strength, high gravity, opacity, poor colorability, slow molding cycles indicating high mold investment for large volume use."
"In composite materials, the laminating industry has been built on the principle of locating things where they would do the most good. Way back in 1922 at General Electric Company I began to appreciate that the same base materials in the same proportions would give twice as much strength if they were disposed in laminate fashion than if they were randomly mixed. Throughout the years, these structures have been applied, originally to give greater strength and stiffness; but more recently through the whole gamut of qualities, to toughness and controlled permeation of films. Let me review some of those earlier days with you."
"We shall be concerned primarily with thermal endurance of the types of materials defined in NEMA Pub. No. LI 1-1965(1). It is our purpose to briefly review the contribution of the Industrial Laminate Section (NEMA) to the present knowledge of thermal stability of laminated, thermosetting plastics, and to discuss a program to provide further knowledge. It hardly needs to be mentioned that the contribution by NEMA was made possible and valuable not only because of the efforts of this association, but because of a mutual exchange of information and ideas with individual workers and technical societies—much of which has been presented in previous Electrical Insulation Conferences, of which this is the Sixth."
"A NEMA/ASTM/IPC/EIA sponsored steering committee has been formed to develop (in conjunction with the NEMA-University of Delaware Test Facility) a nonoperator controlled, quantitative, reproducible method of determining the punchability of laminates—clad and unclad."
"Early in 1943, the members of the Laminated Products Section of The National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) were concerned as to how the industry could secure a larger share of business in World War II applications. They were continually told by the various branches of the Military Services that there was no reliable data on the properties of laminated products, and that such data as was in existence, varied considerably from the different manufacturers' data sheets. On February 2, 1943 the members of the Section decided to do something about this situation. They approved the setting up of a project at some University to develop research data, on an unbiased basis, which would be acceptable to the military services, particularly the aircraft industry and the Air Corps. On April 15, 1943 a contract was signed with Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland “to undertake certain research tests to develop data on the application of laminated plastics in aircraft production.”"
"The use of multilayer printed wiring boards is growing rapidly due primarily to the miniaturization demands of military missile and space programs and the increasingly widespread use of integrated circuits in computers and industrial equipment. Multilayers are a powerful tool for packing large numbers of interconnections into a small volume with reproducible electrical properties."
"The Electrical Insulation Conference presents a forum for interchange of information and ideas between manufacturers of insulation and users. Logically, the formal sessions are technical in nature and one might question the justification of presenting a paper on market research activities in a technical session. There is good reason, however, for the purpose of this paper is to show how an industry association can provide a similar, though assuredly smaller, bridge for exchange of information between user and manufacturer."
"It is somewhat ironical that the Random Wound Motorette, perhaps the oldest and best known method for the thermal evaluation of insulation systems, is only now undergoing the most critical appraisal in its history."
"A test fixture has been developed and a test procedure evolved which permits comparisons and evaluation of glass banding materials under conditions accelerating the degradation of operational environments."
"“Nomex”® nylon, formerly known as HT-1, is a high temperature resistant material being produced by Du Pont. This wholly aromatic polyamide fulfills the need for a material which combines high temperature durability with the mechanical and electrical properties required for broad utility in industrial and military uses. The polyamide is available as continuous filament yarn, staple fibers, and as paper structures of a wide range of weights, sizes, and densities. Initial reports on the properties of paper and fiber structures were given before the Electrical Insulation Conference(1) and the Textile Research Institute in 1962(2)."
"1. Temperature Measurement The thermocouple method of temperature determination has given reliable results but is subject to the following restrictions: a. Enough couples must be used to obtain representative results and provide back-up protection in the event that one couple fails before the motor reaches end of life. b. Sufficient insulation must be provided at the thermocouple tip to prevent cut through of the magnet wire insulation. c. Comparisions between the thermocouple method and the resistance method of temperature determination should be made for each motor design tested."
"Regardless of elaborate and complete test procedures by both insulating materials manufacturers and the OEM's laboratory facilities, materials are frequently submitted which are not suitable for production usage. Some of the new materials developed in recent years on the basis of laboratory test data leave much to be desired for actual production. This is caused, in most instances, because many insulating material manufacturers are not familiar with motor production practice or, they strive so hard for the optimum technical properties in materials that they fail to see the possible production problems their materials will create. This is a tragic condition and production methods changes or even basic design changes bar the use of excellent materials due to the wrong mechanical properties being developed. It is to the mutual advantage of the manufacturer of insulation, its vendor and, the OEM to evaluate and develop material properties and industry standards as a team in close cooperation with each other."
"Recent developments in the field of resin chemistry have resulted in improved performance properties of electrical sleeving and have eliminated many undesirable characteristics of the conventional coated, fiberglass electrical sleeving."
"The foregoing presents evidence of corrosion caused by the heat decomposition of electrical insulation materials. The temperatures used with Class O and A type materials were necessarily somewhat severe in order to include the additional heat caused by the operation of electrical or electronic systems within closed containers. The results show: 1. That extracted materials from PVC sleevings and also vapors from PVC in inclosed areas are highly acidic and may cause corrosion due perhaps to improper stabilization. 2. That cadmium and zinc are rather easily corroded by many insulation materials, especially plastic sleevings. 3. That sealing (potting) compounds can cause severe corroding of copper. 4. That the heat resistant molded plastics used in this report were not effectively stabilized. 5. That aluminum and anodized aluminum were relatively uneffected by contact or vapors from the insulation materials tested."
"The recent availability of a copper-clad polyethylene dielectric material and the refinement of processing techniques has made possible the design and fabrication of improved, high-quality, reliable microwave printed circuits. This has been demonstrated by data and experience gained in the manufacture and use of such circuits in the TELSTAR satellite and in a digital phase shift line application. Many microwave circuits, difficult to construct in any other way, are now feasible at reasonable cost."
"Opportunities for further improvement may be summarized as follows: 1. Reduced space requirement (higher dielectric strength). 2. Higher thermal capability. 3. Improved heat transfer. 4. Dimensional stability and nonhygroscopicity. 5. No harmful decomposition products. 6. Nonflammability."
"The processing procedure described above has already resulted in several important benefits of interest to both the manufacturers and the users of power transformers: 1. Insulation structures which formerly would have been impossible or impractical to properly dry and impregnate can now be easily processed in a relatively short time. This allows the. transformer designed to use design practices on high rating units which would not have been permissible formerly. It also extends upward the maximum ratings which can be built. 2. The electrical, magnetic and mechanical parts of transformers of all ratings can be designed and built to much closer tolerances because of the consistently thorough drying and dimensional stabilization of the insulation obtained by this process. For example, the magnetic core can now be designed to have a closer fit with the coils, thus reducing the amount of wasted space without applying damaging physical stresses to co re material during assembly. 3. Because of the more dependable electrical properties of the insulation resulting from the more rigorous drying, the required insulation clearances can be more accurately calculated with more assurance that the transformer will stand up on test and in service. 4. The transformer will never be any drier in service than at the time the core-coil assembly is put together and assembled onto the tank, so that the coils will not loosen up in service. Movement of the coil conductors and leads under short-circuit conditions should be effectively prevented for the entire life of the transformer. 5. The time required to manufacture a power transformer has been reduced by from a day to a week or more because of the shortened processing time. This is of assistance both to the manufacturer and the customer, making it easier to meet short delivery dates."
"Designs of magnet wire should be based upon customers' needs and the unique properties of particular polymers should be used to appropriate advantage. In order to be able to design wires which fill the customer's needs, the wire engineer must understand these needs and also be able to translate these requirements into meaningful tests which correlate with actual performance. Three tests which do this are the arbor winding test, the revised heat shock test and the core-coil burn-out test."
"The need for better distribution transformers, coupled with continued requirements for lower costs in manufacturing, insulating, and maintenance of distribution transformers, has led to the cast transformer. The dielectric used in the cast transformer is generally an epoxy resin system."
"1. It appears that the use of improved processing techniques, such as instant mixing under vacuum, followed by instant casting under vacuum, and finally instant curing under pressure, will result in higher corona starting voltages."
"Fabran has promise of making significant changes in the rigid electrical industry."
"1. Aromatic polyester-imides exhibit good physical properties."
"A partially acetylated fiber having an acetyl content of 18–24% and adequate inherent fiber strength has been developed. Paper prepared from this acetylated fiber exhibits significant advantages over the non-acetylated parent fiber for moisture resistant properties. These advantages are reflected in improved electrical qualities. There are also definite advantages for dimensional stability and for thermal stability both in air and in oil."
"Conclusions drawn from these tests would indicate that for selecting thermosetting plastic laminates to be used as a dielectric medium, it is important to know the temperature at which the equipment is to be operated, the atmospheric conditions to be encountered, the mechanical strain and the dielectric stress to be applied. If the equipment is used under dry conditions and the mechanical strength requirements are not severe, paper-base laminates are very satisfactory. If humid conditions are factors it would be advisable to use the more water-resistant paper-base grades such as Grade XXXP and XXXPC. Under dry conditions requiring high mechanical strength it may be necessary to use a fabric grade such as LE and under continuous humid conditions requiring high mechanical strength it may be necessary to use Grade N-1. If are resistance is an important requirement Grade G-5 is indicated."
"The tests described are some of the more pertinent used in evaluating new insulating materials for use in large d.c. machines. The test specimens have varied from the simple, varnished blocks, to the complex, a complete d.c. armature, as the test programs have progressed from screening a great many materials to final evaluation of a few. Throughout the emphasis has been placed on employing the systems concept and using functional tests to obtain an understanding of the advantages and limitations of the ever increasing host of new insulation products. Those which have survived comprehensive evaluations of this type are now contributing significantly to the increased reliability of the modern d.c. machines."
"Several important motor manufacturers report Kapton polyimide film offers major design advantages, especially in large formed-coil machines, traction motors and precision rotating equipment where a tough, thin, high temperature resistant, high dieledric insulation is required. A heat-sealable modification, Kapton Type HF, provides a moisture and dust harrier as well as arc and track resistance. The functionality of Kapton permits larger copper conductors in armature slots, resulting in increased horsepower without corresponding increases in frame size. Faster heat dissipation allows cool operation or further upgrading in horsepower, whichever is desired. Coils can be wrapped easily before bending, resulting in production cost savings. Field performance data have been accumulated to illustrate these insulation systems advantages."
"Fiber Modified Isomica provides the electrical design engineer the tools needed to overcome many critical insulation problems at a reasonable cost. The unimpregnated nature of the tape coupled with its physical strength makes it suitable for many taping applications previously not considered for reconstituted mica products. The very high mica content suggests a practical way of obtaining the reliability of mica insulation in a wide variety of rotating electrical apparatus."
"The new family of solventless varnishes and the new application process described in this paper will alter the concepts of the varnish processing of rotating electrical equipment. A summary of the benefits which may be obtained from the new solventless varnishes and the associated processes include sharply reduced processing time for the treatment of both rotors and stators, minimum equipment investment and floor space, process savings, reduced fire hazard and a multipurpose product which will allow a manufacturer to coat, impregnate and encapsulate rotating electrical equipment to produce a superior product."
"The results of this study indicate: 1. Increased voltage life is attainable with wide tapes as contrasted to narrow tapes. 2. Increased voltage life is attainable with thick tapes having an increased mica content. 3. Increased voltage life is related to the flexibility of the tape or wrapper being applied and its ability to conform to the coil. 4. The use of wrappers will provide a significant increase in voltage life as compared to the equivalent build with tapes. 5. Proper indexing of multiple layers of tape will increase voltage life of the insulation wall by as much as 3 fold."
"Insulations based on the poly (amide-imide) polymer are ideal for rotating equipment. The unique combination of properties of this system makes standardization possible for essentially all applications."
"A little over a decade ago, two technologies emerged from the laboratories which were to have a profound impact on the military communications and electronics equipments of today. First, pre-fabricated wiring introduced an orderly geometrical discipline, automation of inter-connections and modular subassemblies within equipments. Secondly, the transistor permitted the design of many circuits with marked reduction in size, power requirements, operating voltages and temperature rise. Figure 1 illustrates a typical application to circuitry from a telemetry deck of one of the early “Explorer” Satellites. Here fullest use is made of printed wiring and transistors as well as special subminiature passive components scaled down for compatibility with transistor characteristics. This low power digital circuit contains solid tantalum capacitors, multilayer high K ceramic capacitors, 0.1 watt fixed resistors, and glass packaged diodes. Higher power levels and tuned circuits require the use of miniature foil capacitors and stable film resistors."
"Self-extinguishing fiber glass mat reinforeed polyester resin laminates have been developed of greater than seven times the impact strength of the conventional paper reinforced phenolic and epoxy laminates. Punching of 1 over 16″ laminates with suitable tools will produce 1 over 16″ holes on 200 thousandths centers with no “haloing,” radial cracks from the holes, cracks between the holes, or fibers in the holes. The D24/23 electrical loss at one megacycle appears controllable to equal to or one-half of the electrical loss of paper reinforced products. The insulation resistance is comparable after 96 hours at 35°C and 90% RH. Water absorption can be controlled to approximately one-half that of the paper reinforeed products. Surface resistance can be controlled to a higher value than for the NEMA grades of XXXPC and FR-3 measured in parallel."
"To summarize, then, K-1 polycarbonate offers the following properties and advantages: Mechanical Advantages 1. Is soluble in volatile solvents. 2. Gives clear, tough films. 3. Gives hard, rigid moldings. 4. Has a glass-transition temperature of 225°C. 5. Has a tensile strength of 4500 psi. at 200°C. Electrical Advantages 6. Has an extremely stable temperature coefficient of capacitance, better than that of polystyrene or any other dielectric material. 7. Has an extremely low dissipation factor, or high Q, that approaches those of polystyrene or polyolefins. 8. Has better properties for both high and low temperature operation than do most existing dielectrics, including other polycarbonates. 9. Has very high insulation resistance at high temperatures, and there is a sensitive technique which utilizes its unique solubility and high volume resistivity for quality control. 10. Forms thin pin-hole-free films with great ease. 11. Neither under accelerated aging conditions nor by using solvents and/or high temperature, can K-1 polycarbonate be crystallized. Other polycarbonates and other polymers do crystallize or change in their level of crystallinity. Crystalline K-1 polycarbonate is unknown."
"1. The Glass Resins are a new member of the silicone polymers, being a pure thermosetting resin."
"Although they have been in use only a few years, multilayer circuits have found a place of great importance in electronic packaging because they uniquely fill a need. Perhaps in their beginning, multilayer circuits were thought of as a convenient answer to the requirements for making connections into and within compact circuits, but today they are finding application as circuit components themselves."
"1. At stresses up to 100 volts per mil the three mica-containing materials have withstood corona at least 10 times longer than the organic insulations tested."
"The deterioration of electrical insulation has always been of concern to insulation suppliers as well as manufacturers of electrical equipment. In the past most of the emphasis has been directed toward the effects of thermal aging on electrical properties."
"The addition type of cure is a major step forward in silicone chemistry. It provides outstanding features such as: 1. Rapid cure for Polling and Encapsulation. 2. Cure in Deep Section, Without Air. 3. Reversion Resistance. 4. Excellent Physical and Electrical Properties. 5. Maintenance of Electrical Properties even in sea water. 6. Tough Compounds for Flexible Molds. 7. Flame Retardant Properties. 8. Heat Curing Foams. 9. High Speed Cures for Tapes and Sleeving. 10. Ease of Handling."
"1. Fibrous Glass Mat for high pressure laminating fills the performance gap between paper base and glass fabric base high pressure laminates."
"Perhaps the most common method used for high production encapsulation of electronic devices is direct encapsulation by transfer molding. While this method does not meet every need of the industry, it nevertheless has proven extremely versatile since its introduction a few years ago, and has enabled appreciable cost reduction and quality improvement in the encapsulation of electronic components and circuits."
"1. The economic gains made possible by modern insulation materials, knowledge, and measurement methods, run into multi-million dollar orders of magnitude which are often not recognized."
"In discussions with a Swiss engineer relative to acceptance tests on a large generator of European manufacture, the authors learned that a number of test procedures were employed in Europe which are not too generally known in North America. It was felt that a presentation of some of the concepts and methods would be of interest to an American audience. Two tests of special note are a high frequency ionization test and an accelerated direct current high potential test (1)."
"It is not news to you gentlemen that insulation system failures are the greatest cause of breakdowns in electrical apparatus. And as a result they have become an ever-present worry for production people and particularly to the maintenance personnel. In recent years, new interest has been created regarding insulation systems, and there exist pertinent reasons for greater knowledge of insulation and its condition. But—why this new interest in insulation?"
"Diagnostic tests on insulation of old windings prior to rewind can add much to an understanding of the mechanism leading to failure in a machine as well as the relative effectiveness of the various test methods for evaluating insulation condition. An excellent opportunity to make such a study occurred when plans were made to replace the entire stator of a 40,000 kva, 13.8 kv, 81.8 rpm waterwheel generator in service since 1927 at the Cono-wingo Dam of the Philadelphia Electric Company. Thus, a series of exhaustive tests could be made on the original stator winding without delaying the planned outage."
"1. A method is presented by which the results of tests commonly made on high voltage electrical equipment may be combined on a numerical scale as an aid in determining the condition of the insulation."
"The main constituents of the new insulation are mica paper, which acts as the predominent dielectric, glass fibre as backing and a modified epoxy resin as bond. The excellent properties of the new insulation show that the adoption of these modern materials as well as of suitable process techniques has enabled the objectivities of the development work to be attained. The use of glass fibre in the place of paper or silk as backing and a heat-curing epoxy resin impregnant instead of a thermoplastic such as asphalt permits a higher service temperature."
"1. Extensive weight losses occurred at moderately elevated temperatures with all the insulations investigated except the polyimide. However the percentage weight losses were low at temperatures at which the insulations are rated for use."
"Both TGA methods investigated offer alternate means for evaluating the thermal capabilities of resinous insulations. Through the use of either method, the time required to obtain a relative thermal rating is substantially reduced."
"Film insulated magnet wires and all plastics, deform, flow away, or even evaporate as a function of heat and pressure. MIL-W-583, its predecessors, several NEMA specifications, and most sales literature describe a cut-through test performed in a well-known manner. Various and numerous burnout tests are also being studied. The tool motor industry has developed burnout tests with actual tools. Unfortunately, with each aforementioned test, a single end point is reached. With this new test, a varying pressure is studied versus a constant temperature, and the resulting data plotted on rectangular co-ordinate. A broader interpretation of plastic flow information is thereby obtained."
"The technique of voltage grading a surface which is stressed electrically to very high d.c. voltages was experimentally shown to be a sound approach in the design of pressurized gas-to-vacuum feed-through bushings. A maximum voltage of 1.2 million volts positive and 1 million volts negative were realized over an insulator length of 30 cm in vacuum."
"Some present developments in the area of laminated, low-loss and combined substrates for use in electronic equipment are discussed. The tailoring of these materials, particularly in light of their intended fabrication, to meet specific engineering needs is reviewed in terms of several concrete applications. Some of the properties which appear critical for the successful use of these materials are noted and used to provide insight concerning future trends in materials engineering in this area."
"The increasing complexity and rigid requirements of the computer industry continues to outdate materials and devices developed only a few years ago. As part of this demand for increased performance in less space, the wire insulation used in computer-back panels wired with the Gardner Denver “Wire-Wrap” machine requires greater resistance to abuse, tight tolerances, and lower cost. Because of the greater wire density of modern panels, a major troublespot has been the shorts and faults in a panel board due to insulation damage from the sharp pin edges and other mechanical parts in the back-panels of computers. This damage has occurred primarily during the hand wire wrapping operation due to wires being pushed and pulled during Engineering Change wiring. Damage is sometimes inflicted during the later life of the panel board. The incidence of these failures is best decreased by using an insulation with superior cut-through resistance and abrasion resistance."
"The material discussed in this paper was developed in response to a specific need inherent in the design of certain electronic modules. One such design is shown in Figure 1. Initially a thin (.005 inch) rigid epoxy-glass circuit board was used. The circuit area of this board carried circuitry on both sides of the board and was bonded to the anodized aluminum heat sink by means of a thin epoxy glass prepreg material. Bonding of the board to the heat sink was done in a laminating press. The cured prepreg material between the board and the heat sink served not only to bond but also served as electrical insulation between the bottom layer of circuitry and the aluminum."
"The properties of currently available glass and ceramic insulation used for substrate applications have been presented. The degree to which these materials meet the desired property goals has been discussed. It is concluded that improvements during the past two years have been significant in matching available substrate properties to those desired. In the field of ceramic substrates physical tolerances have been reduced by a factor of two, while size limits have been increased from about 6 square inches to 20 square inches. Research programs are being pursued which have improved unglazed surface finishes from about 20 microinches to 10 micro-inches. Glaze uniformity has also been improved and it is anticipated that further progress will be forthcoming in this area. A solution to the costly problem of current separation when large ceramic substrates are used is probably this year."
"A wide variety of polyethylene materials have been developed for specific wire and cable applications. It is possible to classify most of these in three general groups. Materials which have been well proven in cable use may be selected for typical applications by using a relatively few characteristic and performance type specifications. Additional performance specifications may be added for certain specialty applications or when using some critical materials."
"1. This “shortie” termination based on the track resistance of pressure-sensitive silicone tape and the hiding-of-the-ground is expected to find wide use in areas where space Iimitations prohibit the use of the 30″ taped termination. Examples of such Iocations are pad mounted transformers, switch gear, motor leads and portable high voltage cable couplers. 2. This design is versatile. It can be used on either shielded or concentric neutral cables and will perform on cable insulations such as butyl rubber, oil-based rubber, ethylene-propylene rubber, polyethylene, and cross-linked polyethylene. 3. The “shortie” termination qualified for 15 kv rating under the AIEE No. 48, Standard For Potheads. 4. Shortened terminations are more susceptible to failure due to poor workmanship and therefore must always be constructed with care."
"1. “Resiwrap” offers a solid insulation system with good thermal stability, high dynamie and static strengths, both through and between laminations, good temperature vs. power factor performance, relatively flat voltage vs. power factor curve and high di electric strength . 2. This resin-rich epoxy-impregnated paper material offers one of the few solid insulation systems that is void-free, has high corona inception voltages, low moisture absorption and high impermeability to gases and liquids. 3. The manufacturing process offers flexibility in application such as its use in condenser bushings. 4. All testing to date also demonstrates a long and dependable life. This material has had over five years of field experience in Europe, plus considerable development testing."
"These results are part of a continuing program to develop more reliable wire and cable for military applications. Significant progress has already been made in developing realistic evaluation tests which reduce screening time and improve reliability."
"This paper has presented a new product concept including the latest performance test results and user experience. The primary function of the product is to provide terminations or apparatus connections for shielded power cable which are: 1. Completely submersible 2. Fully shielded 3. Disconnectable 4. Factory tested 5. Simply applied"
"Reliance on motor insulation to provide integral protection against environmental hazards has advanced to where this attribute has become a major, and sometimes determining, motor requirement. Only within the last two decades has insulation technology come of age. No longer a weak link to be protected by bulky enclosures, insulation systems of large motors today can withstand on their own varying atmospheric and unfavorable environmental conditions."
"Efficiency is defined as the ratio of output to input energy. Design engineers strive for maximum efficiency or an efficiency as close to unity as is practical. Maximum efficiency with respect to magnet wire insulation requires that the ratio of output to input energy approach zero. For maximum efficiency, magnet wire insulations have to exhibit minimum Ioss while maintaining physical strength under voltage stress and are required to do so at their operating temperature. The work outlined compares the effect of temperature on dissipation factor, dielectric constant, dielectric strength, and insulation resistance of a wide variety of magnet wire insulations used in the industry. The results indicate that while some magnet wire insulations have a higher temperature rating, they should not be arbitrarily substituted because of their low efficiency. This is especially true where magnet wire insulations are subjected to higher than normal turn-to-turn voltage."
"The following conclusions were derived from the activity found necessary in order to produce a functional, reliable encapsulated motor."
"The Generator Rotor Simulated Service Test represents a new and useful method of comparing different slot armor insulation systems in a functional manner. The capability to combine mechanical, electrical and thermal stresses on Iow cost samples of new and aged slot armor constructions has speeded the development and application of new materials. A new type of molded fibrous glass and resin slot armor was shown to be superior and has been successfully adopted for product use. A continuing program of materials evaluation with this facility is underway and yielding valuable data."
"From this series of test bars. the following conclusions regarding phase lead insulation have been drawn: 1. A silicone rubber insulation system comprised of the molded tape and paste combination exhibits good insulation properties even when subjected to as much as twice normal operating temperatures. 2. A silicone rubber insulation system comprised of self fusing tape deteriorates under heat and bulges when continued by protective glass tape. 3. Asphalt mica tape used as connection insulation indicates internal heating as demonstrated by dielectric tests. 4. Epoxy mica tape, although losing some of its binder when overheated, remains relatively unchanged under heat and dielectric tests. When used for field repairs of connection insulation, it can be left to cure under normal machine operating temperatures."
"The insulation reliability of a winding has a direct relationship to the reliability of its individual coils. As previously described, this depends upon tests made on components and on assembled coils in various phases of manufacture. Past experience is the major contributor in specifying limits for these tests. Machines in service have proven reliability, by long, continuous periods of trouble-free operation. A continued record of reliable insulation is assured by requiring at least the same test results on components and assembled coils as in the past. For these comparisons, statistical quality control principles are employed."
"Space is both an environment and an insulating medium. Space, viewed as an environment, is characterized by great temperature extremes, bursts of dangerous particulate and electromagnetic radiation, extremely low gas pressures, and swarms of particles and clouds of dust. Space as an insulating medium is characterized by a heat transfer process that is limited solely to radiation, the high dielectric strength associated with an essentially ion free environment, and the Jack of deterioration of materials caused by oxygen, water, and other similar terrestrial causes of corrosion and decomposition."
"In general, the thermal-vacuum weight loss of silicone materials is exceptionally low, regardless of preconditioning. The fact that most silicones do not contain the plasticizers, antioxidants, extenders and other additives commonly used in many organic materials significantly contributes to their superior performance in simulated space environment. In cases such as volatile components condensing on optical surfaces, where even a slight amount of vacuum outgassing might be critical, any of several processing techniques can be effectively applied to further reduce weight loss. A certain amount of gases and moisture will be adsorbed from the atmosphere after the sample has been removed from vacuum. However, this regained weight will be rapidly removed by further vacuum treatment. In addition to low weight loss characteristics, silicone materials have exhibited exceptional retention of physical and electrical properties after combined high temperature and vacuum exposure, and have displayed favorable resistance to ultraviolet and particle radiation."
"1. Rigid polyurethane foams are feasible for encapsulation of intermediate voltage low-energy networks. From the knowledge of the dielectric system, design packaging voltages in 3 to S kv RMS range appear to be practical. This type of packaging would require careful attention to exposed electrode design so as to reduce dielectric stress levels to acceptable values adjacent to terminals. 2. Foam materials with an adequate closed cell structure will provide elevated insulation in a varying atmospheric environment. This includes changes caused by elevated temperatures and high altitudes as well as prolonged operation while passing through the atmosphere and in the vacuum of space. Thus the advantages of a solid encapsulant or a hermetic sealed container can be achieved by foams. 3. The length of time for which foams may be serviceable has not yet been determined quantitatively at room temperatures. At elevated temperatures in a vacuum environment gas diffusion will increase and a shorter effective life is expected. 4. The foam dielectric provides a design advantage over rigid and elastomeric insulating materials in that it has a unique combination of properties. It is light weight, mechanically and chemically stable, insulates in the intermediate voltage range and is suitable for use with many phases of network packaging for aerospace vehicles. 5. The ease of repairability further enhances the desirability of foam packaging for aerospace applications since complex network packages are seldom made in duplicate. In addition, with the advent of short-delivery schedules for most of today's space vehicles and the lag of component reliability data, part or electronic component replacement in existing hardware is becoming more common. 6. The designer must also consider the need for dissipation of thermal energy when using foam. Thermal profiles should be established under operating conditions to determine if the energy dissipation will cause excessive heating of the components. High energy dissipation with foam materials will be a problem in both the atmosphere as well as in space. Contrary to this problem, foam will offer thermal insulation which quite often is desirable with spacecraft."
"With the advent of the aerospace age and with more and more nuclear power plants being built, design engineers have become increasingly concerned with radiation effects on electromagnetic equipment. Not only are they confronted with cosmic radiation, but also with radiation due to the close proximity of nuclear devices. The engineer designing components for spacecraft and electrical equipment for the atomic age is concerned with: A. What environment and what type of radiation will be encountered? B. How will radiation affect the equipment? C. To what degree will the equipment be affected?"
"Some insulating oils when subjected to high-voltage stress undergo chemical changes that result in the formation of various gases. Since there are different insulating oils available to users that are made by various finishing techniques resulting in oils of significantly varied composition, a study of a range of these materials was made to show if they produced different amounts or types of gases. The evolution of gases from oils in atmospheres of hydrogen and nitrogen were studied when the stressing voltage and temperature were varied over reasonable ranges."
"Sixty cycle a.c. and d.c. electric strength measurements are reported for the gas CF3SF5 in a non-uniform field for various electrode configurations. Comparisons are made with other electronegative gases and nitrogen. The effects of pressure and gap size are also noted."
"At fields up to 80 kv/cm, the dark conduction obeys Ohm's law, and the gamma-ray induced and the ultra-violet photo-injected currents do not saturate for a wide range of temperatures. The induced and the injected currents are proportional to the intensity of radiation. lt is suggested that the dark conduction is associated with the presence of irremovable impurities, and that the small fluctuation of conduction current is attributed to the electrons being irregularly trapped and thermally released during their drift toward the anode. The factors influencing the mobilities of positive and negative charge carriers are discussed."
"The properties of “Freon” fluorocarbons which support their use as dielectric-coolants have been discussed: High dielectric strength Stability at high temperatures Compatibility with materials of construction Nonflammability Low toxicity Rapid heat transfer"
"This session is concerned with the measurement of dielectric properties of electrical insulation at temperatures which are elevated above the normal room ambient temperature. The three papers which follow will discuss techniques utilized to measure specific properties. We shall now define the properties, discuss the reason why it is desirable to perform measurement at elevated temperature, review the activities of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) in this field, and examine the need for this session."
"The general principles given in ASTM D 257(1) apply to measurements of dielectric conductance at elevated temperatures. However, special precautions must be taken in the design of the cell or holder and the measuring circuit to insure that the supporting insulator conductances are Iow enough so that they do not appreciably affect the instrument indication when the conductance of a specimen is being measured. This includes conductance between the measuring electrode and the guard ring when volume conductance is being measured. This generally requires that the supporting insulators for the measuring electrode be Iocated outside the heated area. lt is possible to have the supporting insulators in the heated area if special insulating materials are used and special care is taken to have long lengths of insulators with relatively small cross section. Surface conductance usually has little meaning at elevated temperatures."
"It is pointed out that while the importance of dielectric constant and loss measurements at elevated temperatures is generally acknowledged, a careful survey shows that only a few ASTM methods covering a wide range of electrical insulating materials contain detailed, or even adequate, instructions for carrying out such measurements. Recommendations are made for the early correction of this situation. Some general precautions to be observed to minimize common sources of inaccuracy in elevated temperature dielectric constant and dissipation factor measurements are outlined. These precautions depend strongly upon the nature of the materials being tested, the frequencies at which measurements are performed, the maximum temperatures to be covered, the test enclosures employed, and other factors too frequently overlooked."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Presents the copyright information for the conference. May include reprint permission information."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The possible problems arising from radio frequency interference caused by external sources in the electronic subsystems of ballistic missiles, satellites, and space vehicles have been recognized for many years. No recent data is presently available which could be used in determining the level of interference at orbital altitudes. Aerospace has engaged in a low cost \"piggy back\" experiment for the determination of electromagnetic interference (EMI) at orbital altitudes."
"The MINUTEMAN ICBM Weapon System is one of the largest and most complex weapons system that has been subjected to the provisions of MIL-I-6051B and MIL-E-6051C, fielded as an operational system, and subsequently tmproved and retested. The purpose of this paper is to describe the initial method of testing the WS-133A MINUTEMAN Weapon System at Vandenberg Air Force Base to demonstrate compliance with MII-6051B, to critique the test program and results in light of the experience gained when the system became operational, and to discuss the test concept and planing for the improved WS-133B HIN1JI'EMAN Weapon System MIL-E-6051C test to be performed in mid-1965."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The Commission has established an Advisory Committee for the Land Mobile Radio Services (ACLMRS) under the chairmanship of Commissioner Kenneth A. Cox. The Committee is charged with collecting and analyzing all information that has a bearing on the efficiency with which land-mobile frequencies are utilized. One of the many areas to be explored is the matter of man-made noise. This subject has been assigned to Working Group #3 of the Technical Committee, the chairman of which is Andrew F. Inglis."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"As more and more electronic equipment \"goes on the air\", the requirements for r-f interference measurements become more extensive and technical complex, and taking these measurements becomes more time consuming. The repetitive setting and resetting of controls, recording of readings, and transcribing of these readings results in extreme operator fatigue. This, in turn, means a large amount of errors. If the errors are caught, information readings must be retaken; if the errors slip by, the complete spectrum signature may have a low confidence of acceptability. The United states Army Electronics Laboratories have considered these problems and, to overcome them, are developing automatically programmed interference measuring sets. This paper presents an overall description of the first of these; the AN/URM-100(XE-1), which covers the 1 to 12 gigacycle (gc) range with programmed automatic frequency scanning, self-calibration, data printout, and X-Y plotting."
"The presently used EMI instrumentation, designed many years ago, are quite inadequate for the present and future requirements where large numbers of measurements are necessary to assure electromagnetic compatibility. The accumulation of the data is time consuming and its accuracy is a function of the operator's skill in the calibration of the instrument and the conversion of meter readings into final data. In addition, the intercept probability of intermittent signals is extremely low since the existing receivers are primarily manually tuned at a slow rate. The EMC Group of General Dynamics/Convair, San Diego, with assistance from General Dynamics/Electronics, Rochester, New York; and Electro-Magnetic Measurement Co., Farmingdale, New York is developing a new and economically feasibile EMI instrumentation system under contract with the Research and Technology Division, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The system is electrOnically tuned over the frequency range of 20 Hz to 40 GHz (Hz or Hertz was adopted by the National Bureau of Standards to denote \"cycles per second\"). The electronically tuned receiver approach is best suited for measurement of CW or repetitive broadband EMI If the EMI is of a transient and nonrepetitive broadband nature, another approach based on the Fourier Analysis of a waveform in the time domain is better suited. The third pape-r of this session titled \"Electromagnetic Compatibility Analyzer\" will discuss this approach. This analyzer was built by Convair and is used for various EMC evaluations."
"The FCA Mission. The Frequency Control and Analysis Mission ( F CA ) began operations at Cape Canaveral in the early 1 9 5 0 ' s . Early launchings started with short range missiles like the Matador and Regulus, which had relatively uncomplicated electronic transmission and receiving equipment. Few interference problems were encountered and the main function was to maintain correct operating frequencies for telemetry and guidance control. The advent of missiles like Ranger, Atlas, and Titan with their complex control and telemetry systems, increased the demand for frequency control and imposed tight restrictions on tolerable interference. These restrictions resulted in the creation of a group of FCA facilities which includes the present FCA fixed station at Cape Kennedy, mobile vans, and FCA aircraft. Their mission was to make maximum. use of the limited frequencies assigned to the range by controlling the radiation characteristics o f all range instrumentation and monitoring their operations to insure interference-free performance."
"A Compatibility Analyzer was developed at General Dynamics/ Convair to perform three general types of analyses: 1 . Automatically solve and plot the Fourier Transform of a waveform which repeats frequently enough to form a stationary pattern on an oscilloscope. 2 . Automatically solve and plot attenuation a s a function of frequency for any unknown network. 3 . Automatically solve and plot the Fourier Transform of a one-shot transient which is retained on a photograph. The first two types of analysis both use the basic principle of the Analyzer, a high Q filter loop that solves the Fourier Transform and' then automatically steps to a new frequency and solves again. The third method of analysis uses a separate unit, recreates the waveform from straight line approximations, and then finds and plots the Transform of the Delta functions which result from double differentiation of straight lines with finite slopes. In one recent test, a complex waveform was analyzed and the spectrum plotted was used to evaluate the unit' s interference level. Then, as an aid to tracking down the source of some of the transients which made up the waveform, a simple change allowed the Analyzer to develop the spectrum of each transient, or any other portion of the waveform, separately. To find attenuation of an unknown network as a function of frequency, a transient is injected into the network. The Analyzer views both the injected transient, and the resultant waveform as it appears at the output of the network. It analyzes the injected waveform, stores the result, analyzes the output waveform, divides output by input, plots the ratio, and automatically steps to the next frequency. This mode of operation has been found particularly time saving in evaluating cable configurations, where it is desired to investigate the effect of variables such as shielding, grounding, routing, and loads. A complete ratio analysis is performed in a matter of minutes each time one of the variables is changed, and many potential configurations can be examined in a short time. Analyses of this type have shown where one particular configuration is optimum for one frequency range, but another configuration should be used for other types of signals. The additional unit which solves one-shot transients i s an electro-mechanical device on which the operator sets breakpoints and slopes of the straight line approximation for the transient. A motor then drives a series of potentiometers and the spectrum is printed out in one continuous line in about 1 5 seconds. It is very easy to change some part of the waveform, such as slope or an overshoot, and run the spectrum again to see the effect. The paper explains how a sampling oscilloscope is used for frequency scaling, so that the maximum frequency that can be analyzed is limited only by the response of the oscilloscope. Since the Analyzer has been in constant use for several months, plans are revealed for speeding up its operation, reducing its size, and adapting it to other applications."
"Tuned-Radio-Frequency (TRF) or direct detection techniques are significant for Field-Intensity-Meter (FIM) receivers because TRF applications involve a square-law detector response as contrasted with the many \" mix products\" encountered in superheterodyne receivers. Renewed interest in TRF techniques was sparked over a decade ago when low-noise RF amplifiers in the microwave bands became commercially available. This renewed interes t was prompted by the possibility of overcoming the sensitivity limitation which, coupled with the dynamic range limitation, had caused overwhelming favor of the superheterodyne receiver. Dynamic range is actually less of a limitation with FIM receivers than with operational receivers because FIM's are used essentially as test equipment, and the dynamic range can be extended via use of calibrated attenuators. Of course, such dynamic range extension is premised upon high sensitivity. It is this area of increased sensitivity that has received our attention. Typical MDS (minimum discernible signal) for usual operating radars is in the area of -105 dBm to -110 dBm and this level of sensitivity is higher than that encountered in most of our operational FIM's. Sensitivities of this order are achieved via usual superheterodyne techniques, although we have observed MDS's exceeding -130 dBm when low-noise, low power amplifiers are used in the pre-mixer stages of superheterodyne receivers. On TRF receivers, where signals are detected directly and without superheterodyne action or RF amplification, we have found that advertised MDS's of - 55 dBm to -60 dBm are difficult to achieve even across a single band and that an MDS of - 50 dBm across L, S, C, and X-bands approaches optimum. There are ways to improve upon these sensitivities, however, and the experimental data following is an indication of the possibilities. The breadboard FIM considered is diagramed in Figure 1. The crystal detector utilized is a standard 1 N21 C in a crystal holder which is matched carefully to the video amplifier. The low-noise traveling-wave amplifiers are the Watkins-Johnson WJ-268 series which operate at low power over octave regions from L-band through X-band, and the high gain traveling-wave amplifiers are the Huggins series of medium power, high gain tubes. It is noted that the same crystal detector and video amplifier are used for all frequencies although four sets of the tandem TWT' s are used to cover the L-band to X-band microwave regions. Figures 2 through 5 illustrate MDS sensitivities at various frequencies, and Figures 6 through 9 illustrate the same signals at tangential sensitivity levels. Basic dynamic range of the detector is illustrated in Figures 10 and 11 although effective dynamic range can be extended by using the calibrated variable attenuator."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Summary form only given. Like other spurious electromagentic fields, the electromagnetic fields generated by a nuclear weapon detonation represent a potential hazard to electronic systems. This paper reviews this hazard and describes various ways of overcoming it . First, the basic generation mecham.sms of the nuclear electromagnetic pulse (EMP) and the resulting fields are described. Several specific ways in which the EMF can interact with electronics systems are then discussed. Techniques are described which may either protect a system from the EMP or minimize the EMP effects. To insure the EMP invulnerability of complete systems, it is sometimes necessary to sllnulate an EMP environment for the system in proof tests. A review is made of some sllnulation facilities that are available now or will be available in the near future. Finally, a bibliography of reports dealing with various aspects of the EMP is given."
"Summary form only given. The electromagnetic pulse caused by lightning and by the motion of plasma in a nuclear explosion is now recognized as a source of many potential malfunctions in electronic systems. The exact nature of the signal near the source is not known, and equipment failures are an indication of its severity. A more thorough knowledge of the electromagnetic pulse is therefore needed. This can be accomplished through simulation techniques and the measurement of resulting radiated signals. This paper discusses techniques for broadband measurements of the high intensity high frequency signals in the induction fields near an EMP source. The design requirements are based on limited information about the complex EMP signals, and are planned to result in instrument characteristics which bracket the requirements. Techniques are described which have been used to measure EMP-type signals. Experimental results are discussed· and the problems of proper instrumentation techniques for use in extreme environments are enumerated."
"As modern electronics becomes more complex and greater use is made of microminiature techniques in order to compress more functions into every pound of electronic hardware, the electronic designer is faced with many new problems. In addition to the inevitable interconnections and packaging problems, he is requested to insure greater reliability, greater accuracy of response and greater performance under more severe environmental conditions than has ever been imposed before. In addition to the usual altitude, temperature, shock and low energy electrical interference criteria, new criteria show increased tendency to require the electronics to withstand high energy electromagnetic pulse environments such as might be encountered in an electrical storm, from power surges, or possibly from radar or other sources. This paper attempts to fill in this gap by describing experimental techniques and equipment for providing EMP environments in the laboratory at both the low (1-MC) and high frequency (10-MC) portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A knowledge of the effect of discontinuities, such as joints, openings, etc. of the shielded enclosure on its performance is of considerable value in the design of such enclosures. Experimental data have been obtained for shielding effectiveness of steel and aluminum plates of thicknesses 0.075 inch and 0.085 inch respectively over the frequency range of 0.5 to 9 kC/S, \"When discontinuities such as rectangular slit opening, overlapping of plates, etc. are present. It was observed that the shielding performance of the solid steel plate is superior to that of the solid aluminium plate over the frequency range of 0.5 kC/S to 9 kC/S as shown in Fig. 1. The presence of a rectangular slit opening in the solid plate degrades the shielding effectiveness considerably. However, in the case of the aluminium plate, the shielding effectiveness improves as frequency increases and the opposite happens in the case of the steel plate. to about 5 kC/S, performance of the steel plate is better than that of the aluminium plate. Beyond that frequency, the aluminium plate show's better performance. Shielding effectiveness of overlapped aluminium plates increases as frequency increases and an overlap width of 1-1/2\" gives performance equivalent to that of the solid plate. In the case of steel, shielding effectiveness of the overlapped plates improves and i s better than that of the solid plate with rectangular slit. Up to about 1.5 kc/s, the performance of the steel plate is superior to that of the aluminium plate. However, beyond this frequency, aluminium shows marked improvement . These characteristics are shown in Figs. 2 and 3. Application of pressure at junction overlap improves shielding effectiveness in the case of both metals. However, it is more effective in the case of aluminium than in the case of steel. Representative data are shown in Fig. 4 and 5."
"Summary form only given. As the concentration of equipment or the power requirements increase, magnetic fields having power source fundamental and harmonic frequencies increase. The use of Silicon Controlled Rectifiers for speed and power control of machine tools cause additional magnetic fields at harmonic frequencies of the fundamental power source frequency. Shielding of sensitive circuits and equipment becomes increasingly important. This paper describes the techniques used to evaluate magnetic shielding effectiveness of shielded enclosures in the frequency range of 10 cps to 5 Kc. This frequency range can easily be extended above 15 Kc. It involves the use of a wideband variable-mu receiver as the magnetic field sensing instrument. This technique would be applicable to evaluation of various materials, construction techniques, and configurations of shielded enclosures for magnetic shielding effectiveness."
"This paper discusses the results of a series of tests which were performed to determine the relative effectiveness of several circuit grounding methods and shield grounding methods in interference reduction between adjacent twisted shielded pairs contained within the same cable. The series of tests are described and the data have been reduced to provide a matrix tabulation of figures of merit for the various combinations of victim circuit and source circuit shield grounding methods. Of significant interest is the extent to which circuit grounding configurations are seen to affect victim circuit susceptibility."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper has been prepared to show the make-up of a comprehensive interference control plan and the effectiveness when utilized at the very beginning of a project."
"Compatibility analyses are performed on existing and planned military operations to diagnose possible interference situations and to determine what remedial or preventive actions should be taken. Such analyses entail predicting the levels of interference and the extent of performance degradation, and determining the best solutions. An important consideration in performing a compatibility analysis is the accuracy requirement. Generous tolerances permit the use of simple, relatively inexpensive prediction methods. However, because of the low confidence, the. fixes or solutions selected on the basis of such predictions must provide large safety factors. Highly accurate predictions necessitate the us e of detailed, comprehensive methods and are more expensive to perform. However, the solutions can be better engineered and the need for large safety factors avoided. For those situations in which large safety factors can be provided conveniently, simple analyses are adequate. Whereas, in situations where large safety factors cannot be provided conveniently, more accurate analyses should be performed. The intent of this paper is to provide guidance to analysts in determining the accuracies that should be achieved in compatibility analyses. The requirement for a safety factor in the interference fix or solution employed is related to the accuracy of the prediction; the more common types of fixes or solutions and the burdens imposed by providing safety factors are discussed; and finally the accuracies recommended for analyzing various interference situations are presented. In most compatibility analyses, the analyst must calculate the level of the undesired signal, or interference (I), appearing at the output of victim receiver. The level of the desired signal (S) is either specified or calculated, depending upon the inputs supplied by the problem poser."
"This paper describes interference prediction modeling techniques that have been developed to take advantage of a large, computerized, pre-stored data base consisting of environmental and equipment characteristics data. Particular emphasis is given to areas where deviations from classical interference prediction techniques have resulted due to the availability of a broad spectrum of data representing most types of communication-electronics equipment. A brief discussion of the data base maintained at the Electromagnetic Compatibility Analysis Center i s followed by a more thorough examination of a basic interference prediction model which applies to interference from a single source and an intermodulation interference prediction model which considers interference from multiple sources. The computational techniques that are developed are applicable to situations when equipment discrete operating frequencies are known as well as when tuning ranges are the only known frequency characteristics of the equipment."
"Any comprehensive attempt to predict the electromagnetic compatibility \" situation\" for a given system configuration must take into account all possible sources o f interference external t o the system under consideration. Because receiving systems are becoming more sensitive, i t is increasingly important that we do not overlook any sources o f electromagnetic energy. Although basic models and processes now exist for the prediction and analysis of interference i n electronic systems, further expansion is needed to define \" input function models\" for impulse types of interference resulting from sources such a s power lines, ignition systems, arc welders, switches, and relays. In this paper, we discuss the characteristics o f impulse interference, define the parameters that influence the characteristics and level, and present a general mathematical model that can be used to represent impulse interference originating from any source. I n addition to presenting a general model for representing impulse interference for analysis and prediction we also show how t o evaluate the model for one o f the more serious sources o f impulse interference. Radiation from power lines can and has been a serious source o f interference. With the trend toward power transmission at extra high voltage levels, power line interference will assume greater relative significance in the next several years."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"In this paper a theoretical model is developed which provides predictions for the side radiation of a linearly polarized pyramidal horn. The theoretical model has been based on the asymptotic solutions of a canonical problem which has been recently reported by Kritikos. In this canonical problem it was shown that a half infinite aperture backed by a half infinite plane of a perfect conductor can be effectively replaced by line sources with an appropriate pattern. The line sources are electric or magnetic currents corresponding to an electric field in the aperture which is parallel or perpendicular to the wedge. Using this model the approximation is made that the aperture field in the shadow region can be represented by four line current s . The four line currents correspond to the four edges of the horn."
"This paper presents information on a modeling technique and on data reduction techniques applicable to obtaining the spectrum signatures of low-gain. low-frequency airborne antennas. The modeling technique shows the degree of simplicity permissible in the fabrication of a scale model of the vehicle on which the test antennas are mounted. It is shown that simple geometric shapes employed to represent an aerodynamically shaped aircraft will yield sufficiently accurate information for antenna signature evaluation. thus allowing far field antenna characteristics to be obtained at a relatively small cost."
"Bethe's small hole coupling theory is applied to coaxial transmission line to design mode selective directional couplers. By independently sampling the TEM and TEll modes in coaxial line, harmonic measurements can be performed which would require five or more directional couplers if made in rectangular waveguide. Mode selectivity on the order of 30 db has been achieved."
"Two bolometers for measuring the total spurious emission from microwave transmitters are described. The bolometers, which are placed inside a waveguide from which the fundamental power has been bypassed, sample the flow o f energy for all possible modes over an extremely wide range of frequency. Their essential feature i s that they completely cover the cross section of the waveguide."
"A simple measurement technique has been developed for determining the amplitude and relative phase of individual modes propagating in overmoded waveguide. This development was performed a s a portion o f the program on in-guide multimode power measurements.* The mode-measurement technique represents a significant step toward bridging the gap between total in-guide measured power and spectrum signature prediction. Also o f importance i s the use of the technique t o measure mode conversion when standard waveguide components are excited at frequencies outside of their design band."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Small,time-varying magnetic fields, on the order of two gauss, were investigated to determine the problems associated with transient and steady state fields, and resultant interference generation. Difficulty in measuring small fields arises since the earth's magnetic field is of the order of . 5 gauss and varies at different locations, since the vector components of the earth's magnetic field are not constant. Other considerations in the measurement of small fields are environmental conditions, such as metals with residual magnetism in close proximity and permanent magnet fields from motors or meters, which have magnetic field intensities from 1 to 1 00 0 gauss. The environment and directivity of the measuring instrument, therefore, becomes an important factor to consider."
"The parallel wire directional coupler separates information about the incident and reflected waves. It permits identification of the direction on the line from which the interference is coming. A measurement of the relative magnitude and phase relationship between the voltages developed at each end of the secondary line permits calculation of the interference load impedance at the frequency of the interference. A measurement of the interference source impedance can be made using this technique by replacing the normal load with a signal generator whose output is greater than that of the interference source at the frequency of the source or by making the measurement with the signal generator tuned slightly off from the frequency of the interference source. The above technique could b e very useful in interference control work. Measurement of the load impedance and the interference current in the transmission line at the frequency of the interference permits calculation of the interference power delivered to the load. Likewise, a measurement of the source impedance and a measurement of the current that this source would deliver to a conjugate load permits calculation of the maximum interference power available from a source. Susceptibility measurements should also be made knowing the impedance of the device as a function of frequency. One of the primary advantages of the parallel wire directional coupler technique to measure an interference load impedance is that it can be accomplished without physically breaking into the system on which the measurement is to be made. Measurements have been made over the frequency range of 150 Kc to 25 Mc and can easily be made at frequencies up to 1000 Mc ."
"This paper advocates neither maintaining the present point-by-point method of making EMI measurements as the exclusive test procedure, nor an abandonment o f the manual system entirely in favor o f push-button spectral sweeps that produce a complete EMI profile in a few minutes, but rather a moderate approach where part or all o f both methods are utilized, depending only on what i s optimum for each situation."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper reviews the field o f RF radiation hazards, with particular concentration on biological hazards to human beings."
"The requirement o f making systems containing electroexplosive devices unsusceptible to electromagnetic radiation has established a need for instrumentation capable of providing more information than simple go-no-go tests with live devices and capable o f providing the information in a manner suitable for automatic data recording and evaluation. The instrumentation must meet certain requirements. Out of the many different possibilities o f making instrumentation, two methods have evolved as being most practical or best meeting the requirements, namely use of an rf detector to measure voltage across the bridgewire of an electroexplosive device, the impedance of which having previously been measured at all frequencies, and use of a thermal detector to measure heat generated in the bridgewire. Each method has its own set of advantages and disadvantages, thereby indicating that choice of method depends on the imposed test conditions. However, because of the difficulties in interpreting measurement of voltage and impedance at microwave frequencies and above, thermal instrumentation measurements are often used to calibrate rf detector measurements, which are made using standard electronic circuit techniques. Consequently, more detailed discussion is devoted to thermal instrumentation."
"A problem faced by most missile system manufacturers is to determine the electromagnetic compatibility of their ordnance subsystems which incorporate electro-explosive devices ( EED's). In this paper, an EMC instrumentation system is developed to sense MIL Specification required critical levels of stray energy developed on the EED's squib's bridgewire and at the same time minimize the change of the EMI susceptibility of the original ordnance firing circuit."
"Electroexplosive initiators required for precise timing of ordnance and explosives in military and space vehicles are dangerously susceptible to environmental electromagnetic energy. The initiators can be unintentionally activated, delayed, or dudded, depending on the degree and frequency of exposure and the characteristics of the initiators. Prevention of susceptibility requires special RF-insensitive design or installation of properly shielded frequency-selective protective devices. In order to accomplish optimum design of such devices, and to predict and measure their effectiveness, certain controlling electrical parameters must be known and controlled. Several basic types of RF-insensitive EED's and protective devices are described, along with methods of measurement of device parameters. A description of methods of predicting effectiveness of such devices from their measured electrical parameters will be presented. It is shown that the radiation hazards problem is different only in degree from the normal RF susceptibility aspect of EMC, requiring extremely careful analysis of circuit resonance effects and their resulting influence on total effectiveness of protective design or devices. The analysis shows that total effectiveness can be determined as the product of separately-identifiable electrical parameters, one of which is a function only of the protective device design. The other is a function of external circuit conditions."
"This paper describes the technical approach used to determine ideal fix characteristics and the relative importance of various EED-fix-performance characteristics."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper reviews principles underlying filtering for RFI - as contrasted with conventional filtering based on classical network theory."
"Many EMC filter applications require equipment and shielded enclosure power line filtering of 100 db or greater over frequency ranges of 1. 0 kc to 1. 0 or 10 . 0 kmc. Completely different design techniques are necessary in three different frequency ranges, such as 1. 0 kc to 15-25 kc, 15-25 kc to 75-100 kc through 1. 0-10 . 0 kmc. In the low frequency range of 1. 0 kc to 15-25 kc, true low pass filters working into known impedances are necessary to pass the power line frequencies, without high power losses which would destroy the filter. In power line and information circuits, particularly those carrying digital signals, the filters must be in critical damped circuits to prevent ringing."
"Electromagnetic Interference control is best carried out when it is included in the initial equipment design phase. In order for this to be readily achieved, the designer must be cognizant of his EMI responsibilities and also have the tools with which to design the EMI filtering as an integral part of the equipment. Several short cuts have been developed to reduce the time required for determining filter component values by simplifying several basic filter design equations."
"The technique for filtering in circuits which are truly single ended (i.e . using a ground plane or chassis return) is reasonably straight forward. Since in this configuration the noise currents flow along a path identical with the signal currents the filtering criterion i s normally one of selection o f a proper cut-off frequency and attenuation slope. In circuits where noise currents do not have a path identical with the signal, the problem of reducing noise can readily become more complex. However advantages, i n noise reduction greater than can be achieved in single ended circuits, are available if the noise propagation mode can be identified and the proper type filtering applied."
"Interference reduction filters have been the least understood device for the control of electromagnetic interference. A brief review of electromagnetic compatibility control practices will illustrate the proper application and use of interference reduction filters in present day electronic systems. To achieve electromagnetic compatibility in systems design, grounding is liven first consideration. Effective radio-frequency grounding will allow control of ninety percent of electromagnetic interference problems. The use of tubular conductors of high conductivity will minimize surge impedance and the self-inductance of a given length of conductor, thus placing electronic equipment closer to ground potential. Electromagnetic compatibility is further controlled by effective shielding. Since most system electromagnetic interference problems are near field problems, high permeability shielding must be used to effectively minimize the effects of magnetically induced fields. When associated with good radio frequency grounding techniques. shielding will constitute six percent ot the electromagnetic interference control effect."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Summary form only given. Increasingly stringent RFI specifications have highlighted the importance of planning for interference control at the component level. Seemingly innocent component combinations have shown unexpected r - f noise characteristics when subjected to the severe tests called for by certain military specifications, and careful investigations have proved that many such noise problems could have been reduced considerably by careful circuit design and component selection. The aims of circuit designers and RFI engineers appear to be diametrically opposed because the circuit designer is constantly concerned with using components that will give him narrower pulse widths, faster rise times, and other features that will improve (which generally means speed up) circuit operation. Such improvements represent distinct benefits to the circuit designer, but they are also prime sources of RFI problems. These apparently conflicting aims are not irreconcilable. Components can be selected and circuits can be constructed which are compatible to the circuit designer and the RFI engineer if characteristics other than the customary design factors are taken into consideration. As an example of one normally untested-for characteristic at the component level, a passive element is really a combination of L, C, and R which is resonant at some frequency. The circuit designer is not concerned with this resonance if it does not affect circuit operation, but to the RFI engineer it may be extremely important. This problem of low-Q resonance also extends to component combinations. Other, equally subtle problems are discussed, and various solutions are offered. The RFI characteristics o f five basic components are analyzed in depth and compared with the data normally supplied by the manufacturers. Recommendations are offered in two specific areas: test procedures and component specifications. A partial list of recommended test procedures is for the following: -attenuation -Q measurements -self-resonance -d-c effects on performance. Component specifications should be expanded to include noise minimizing features. The EMI problems discussed will certainly increase and not decrease i n the future because of the trend towards integrated circuits and nano second rise-time circuitry. Large masses of such circuits in a computer or other similar equipment will enormously compound the problems of RFI suppression and will extend the interference frequency range well up into and beyond UHF. These development trends further accentuate the need for EMI suppression at the component and circuit levels before the sheer size and complexity of the problem make it extremely difficult and expensive to control."
"Microelectronic Circuit Technology is sufficiently well developed to be incorporated in operational systems. I n anticipation of electromagnetic compatability problems, measurement techniques have been developed for the purpose of testing and evaluating small electronic units. Measurements have been made on several different types of miniaturized circuits with particular emphasis on integrated electronic circuits. Three levels of interference potential have been selected to indicate the relative rate of degradation for each component. The first level i s that for which the interfering signal i s barely detectable . The second level is that at which the function of the component is completely overshadowed by the interfering signa l . The third level is that at which an irreversable malfunction of the component occurs. These levels are specified in terms of magnitudes of fields to which the miniature components are subjected. A technique is described for measuring small volume fields thereby completing the RFI analysis procedure. in addition to typical miniaturized circuit susceptibilities, a description of the sources of specific problems is given and methods of reducing susceptibilities are discussed."
"The purpose of this paper is to define the susceptibility characteristics of integrated circuits and to present the results of a research program which investigated some of these characteristics. Integrated circuit technology has very rapidly progressed to the point where it commands a major role in the electronic industry. This rapid ascent has resulted in a definite lack of thorough information pertaining to integrated circuit susceptibility. A research program was initiated to determine the amount and validity of the available information and to obtain supplemental laboratory data.A brief introduction to integrated circuits is presented to establish a common reference for discussion and to allow easy interpretation of the test data. The basic operation of typical Diode-Transistor Logic (DTL), Transistor - Transistor Logic (TTL) , Current Mode Logic (CML) . and Metal-OxideSilicon-Field Effect Transistor Logic (MOST) circuits are discussed with emphasis on these factors that tend to increase their susceptibility. The next section of the paper deals with the DTL circuit which has been one of the most popular types of integrated circuits. Several DTL gates and some binary circuits from various manufacturers were evaluated on the basis of interference rejection capability on the input and on the signal common, which are the two most susceptible areas. The interference rejection measurements were conducted with the circuits subjected to several degrees of loading and over a wide temperature range. In most cases, the susceptibility spectrum measurements extend from DC to over 50 megacycles. The input/output voltage and current characteristics were also measured with respect to temperature and degree of loading. Attention is given to some of the improved DTL manufacturing methods such as replacing offset diodes with transistors for greater fan out, and the recent dielectric isolation technique. The time delay of the present family of DTL circuits is limited to approximately 10 nanoseconds due to the parasitic capacitances and the saturated mode of operation. To obtain switching speeds which would give time delays in the 5 nanoseconds region, a diferent type of logic such as CML must be used. CML circuits are a non-saturated design and exhibit susceptibility characteristics that are different from the DTL circuits. To allow easy comparison between the diferent logic types, the laboratory evaluation of the CML circuits was performed in the same manner as the DTL circuits. TTL circuits which utilize an emitter input have susceptibility characteristics that are different from either the DTL or the CML circuits. Again for the sake of comparison, the laboratory evaluation followed that of the two preceding circuit types. All of the DTL, CML, or TTL circuits have thresholds which are generally less that 1 .5 volts, which may be unsatisfactory for certain applications. In areas that require higher thresholds, a MOST type circuit can be utilized. The MOST integrated circuits are much aimpler than the other circuit types. The MOST characteristics, such as high thresholds and very high Input impedance, allow the circuits to perform very satisfactorily in the direct coupled mode. As would be expected, the susceptibility characteristics of the MOST circuits difer somewhat from the other circuit types. The last section of this paper is the most important one. All of the significant data on each circuit type is compared with the data from the other circuit types. This comparison illustrates several factors such as the affect of loading and temperature on the rejection margins and the dependence of the circuit threshold on the initial design. Other circuit factors that would influence a system operation are also discussed."
"Investigations are being conducted to determine the radio frequency susceptibility of typical integrated digital and linear amplifier circuits. The primary objective of this program is to define, in general, the susceptibility of these circuits and to develop techniques that are adaptable to routine susceptibility measurements of individual integrated modules. A complete description of the techniques and instrumentation utilized in these investigations is given. The parallel-strip transmission line technique, based on concepts previously reported by the Boeing Company, is utilized to produce a TEM mode electromagnetic field that i s uniform within one decibel. The simplicity of theory and design prove valuable in simulating radiated plane waves, both CW and transient forms, of known magnitude. By simple changes in physical dimensions and termination impedance, this line can be matched to the output of most common R . F . signal generators. The line utilized in this program has a characteristic impedance of 50 ohms and i s being used successfully with CW from 30 cycles per second to 200 megacycles per second and with transients of 2 nanosecond rise-time."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper presents the results of a theoretical study of the electromagnetic field in the vicinity of a rod antenna transmitting over a conductive ground plane. In the course of studying compatibility problems one occasionally finds it necessary to predict accurately the field strength within a few wavelengths of a radiating element. This problem i s more difficult than one might expect, especially if the length of the radiating element is greater than one tenth of a wavelength. In fact, the equations involved are sufficiently complex to effectively prohibit their use as a practical engineering tool. What is needed is a simple and rapid method for applying these equations. This paper presents such a method. The three general equations which describe the three components of the field are presented and discussed. A digital computer is used to obtain solutions for a specific antenna height and several specific frequencies. The graphical computer results are presented and discussed. A method for normalizing the three general equations is developed. It i s shown that the data obtained from the computer (for specific values of the variables) can be transformed into a normalized presentation in which all distances are measured in terms of wavelength. It therefore becomes possible to construct normalized field strength graphs. These graphs can easily be applied to obtain theoretical field strength values for the three components of the field over a wide range of parameters. Examples are presented, illustrating the method of application. Figure 1 is a typical normalized field strength graph. It is constructed for the case in which antenna height (h ) is equal to 0.685 wavelength. The horizontal axis represents horizontal distance from the base of the antenna, measured in wavelengths. Each of the curves on the graph corresponds to certain height above the ground plane, again measured in wavelengths. The vertical axis is field strength expressed in decibels above one microvolt per wavelength per ampere of antenna current. This graph i s for the vertical component of electric field. Similar graphs are constructed for the horizontal component of electric field, and for the magnetic field. The complete family of graphs is made up of a set of three graphs for each ratio of antenna height-to-wavelength to be evaluated."
"This paper describes the design of a field intensity meter capable of accurately measuring the electric and magnetic components of the near field of high power radio frequency radiators. The design problem is divided into the following two major areas: (1) How must existing design concepts be modified to ensure the accuracy of near field measurements? (2) How severe are the shielding and isolation requirements that will successfully isolate the measuring system from high intensity electromagnetic ambients ?"
"When a field measurement sensor is placed in a field, the field is often distorted to some extent, resulting in the introduction of error into the measurement. New techniques for positioning a field sensor are constantly being sought to reduce or eliminate variables which contribute to measurement errors. A low-profile probe carriage has been developed during an independent research and development effort by S&ID-Tulsa. This device incorporates many desirable capabilities for measuring an electromagnetic field, and minimizes perturbation of the field. The carriage is a flat plate mounted on wheels and has a synchro transmitter connected to One axle and mounted on the platform. The probe is supported by a dielectric boom arrangement which can accurately place the probe through a wide range of positions. The carriage was constructed with a low profile to reduce reflection. Radar-absorptive material was used to further reduce reflections from the carriage and booms. The difficulties caused by operators being near the probe, such as stray capacitance, variable reflections, and temperature contributions in thermal detectors have been eliminated by locating the operators in a shielded area an adequate distance from the carriage and sensor. As the probe moves through the region to be measured, the synchro transmitter drives a position recording chart. The position of each measurement can, therefore, be accurately recorded, which permits the measurement at any given position to be repeated. Nylon cords are used to move the carriage along a straight line in the region to be measured. A closed-loop winch arrangement makes it convenient to reverse the direction of travel. Applications for a device of this nature are found in almost every field measuring technique. Small probes can be located very near a source without significantly disrupting the field, which is convenient for near field measurements and measurements within the anttenna region. Probes can be located in relatively complex areas for measuring fields near an aircraft, a shielded enclosure, On an aircraft carer deck, or similar locations. Details of the measurement technique utilizing the probe carage developed by S&ID-Tulsa are ; presented with photographs, dimensions, and reflectivity data."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The recent trend in the technological climate has been one of increasing specialization. In certain areas this trend must be reversed or modified in order to efficiently utilize these technological disciplines in the development of new products. Excellent examples are the current hardening programs where the disciplines o f the physicist, the electronic designer the chemist, and the metallur gist must be effectively combined and optimized to provide an adequate product without great sacrifice in performance. reliability, weight, and cost. Both a macro - and microscopic view of the problem i s essential to the successful solution. Frequently the process of correctly combining the technical disciplines can result in the necessary technical breakthrough required to solve the seemingly insoluable problems. Effective technical management demands efficient combining o f technologies s o that the tools of the various disciplines will be most efficiently utilized in solving the overall problem on an expedited basis. When w e consider shorter development turn around time and lower production volume per engineering development program, more effective utilization of scientific skill s is mandatory. There exists an urgent need for greater reliability and confidence in early analytical techniques. There is no tim·e for serially programmed analysis, design, development, engineering model fabrication, test redesign and retest. The expanding technology of nuclear weapon design and usage electronic warfare coupled with space developments and radiation environments, have dictated the necessity o f bringing together previous unrelated, o r at least loosely coordinated scientific disciplines. Since the above phenomena involve a spectrum o f radiation differing only in frequency and amplitude from electromagnetic compatibility considerations of previous and present experience, it is only logical to apply and expand familiar techniques. With the continuing advancement i n micro circuit techniques, less susceptibility to known types of radiation, and an awareness of the demands of future programs, the end re sult wil be more sophisticated but compact and reliable electronic systems. The Program described is based on the Air Force Systems Command Manual (AFSCM) -3 75 titled \"Systems Management\" consisting of 6 volumes. Specific Electro Interference and Electromagnetic Pulse requirements as well as other considerations o f significance to the Compatibility Engineer are reviewed. The required tasks and necessary prerequisites are discussed from the Pre-conceptual through the Operational phase of the program. In addition, EMC oriented portions of AFSCM/AFL CM - 310 \"Data Management\" are reviewed."
"Conference proceedings back matter may contain various advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include committee or program information, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
